Document of
The World Bank
FOR omcUL usE ONLY
Rai N.. P-3958-PN
REPORT AND RECOMMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 100 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 10, 1985
lhk dameso  o lam £ pamifi dlSdbsm aud NOT he ad by  eepeu s  la e peifeninmin of
|m     S helm _li   em  mn at ulbowIe be ilulmu  n    Wad Imk nbholud.  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0            Pesos (P) 20.0
P 1.00         u  US$0.05
p 1 million    *  US$50,000
(as of September 1984)
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ALF         -  Agricultural Loan Fund
ALFPAG      -  Agricultural Loan Fund Policy Advisory Group
AMDAC       -  Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers/
Distributors Accreditation Comittee
CB          -  Central Bank
CBI         -  Central Bank Institute
DBP         -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DLC         -  Department of Loans and Credit (CB)
LBP         -  Land Bank of the Philippines
MAF         -  Ministry of Agriculture and Food
PNE         -  Philippine National Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Central Bank of the Philippines
Guarantor:       Government of the Philippines
Amount:          US$100 million equivalent
Terms:           The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        The Central Bank of the Philippines (CB) would onlend the
equivalent in pesos of US$99.5 million of the loan proceeds to
qualified participating banks at market-oriented interest
rates consistent with criteria agreed with the Bank. The
foreign exchange risk would be reflected in CB's rediscount
rates. Participating banks would onlend the CB funds blendee
with their own deposit funds at market-oriented interest
rates. The project departs from previous credit programs in
the Philippines which generally had below market interest
rates and regulated spreads to the intermediary banks.
US$500,000 of the loan proceeds would be used by CB to finance
technical assistance for project-related policy studies,
training and institutional development.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would help foster the country's economic
recovery by: providing the agricultural sector with seasonal
production and investment credit which has been in increas-
ingly short supply in recent years; establishing an appro-
priate institutional and policy framework to promote devel-
opment of a financially sound rural credit system; and
strengthening the capacity of rural credit institutions to
mobilize rural savings and improve the efficiency of farm
credit operations. The project would also help increase the
effec-tiveness of CB policies with regard to rural financial
market deveLopment. Specifically, the project would provide
funds for (a) short- and longer-term credit for the agricul-
tural sector, (b) policy-related studies and preparation of a
future project, and (c) training of project-related staff and
technical assistance. The project responds to policy and
institutional issues identified by the Bank's 1982 Agricul-
tural Credit Sector Review. Project credit is expected to
finance a wide range of investments including annual crops;
poultry, livestock and fishery development; plantation crops;
agroprocessing and post-harvest facilities; and farm
mechanization.
This document has arestricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the performance
of their officiaduties.Its contents may nototherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The main project risk is that the agriculture sector may
recover from its present crisis at a slower pace than expected
despite the introduction of policies aimed at providing
incentives for private sector investment, causing demand for
project investment credit to be less than anticipated.
However, a continuing review of the Government'i agricultural
policies is planned under the Bank-assisted Agricultural
Sector/Inputs Project (Ln. 2469-PH). There is also an insti-
tutional risk associated with CB's channeling of funds through
a banking system which has been financially impaired by the
recent economic crisis. This risk would be addressed by
applying qualifying criteria to select financially viable
banks for participation in the project, extending CB
assistance to strengthen the capacity of participating banks
to undertake agricultural lending, and establishing lending
terms which would allow banks to determine spreads on interest
rates which would be sufficient to cover their transaction
costs, including the risk of subloan default. Training in
project-related skills would also be provided to the staff of
CB and participating banks to facilitate project implementa-
tion.
Estimated Cost:                                   Local      Foreign      Total
…-- (US$ million) 
Seasonal Production Credit            50.0         33.4       83.4
Hedium- and Long-term Credit          69.2         29.9       99.1
Pcticy Studies                         0.2          0.1        0.3
Pro;ect-related Tra;a;o and
Technical Assistance                 0.1          0.1        0.2
Total Project Cost l               119.5         63.5      183.0
Financing Plan: /b
IBRD                                  36.5         63.5      100.0
CB                                    13.7          -         13.7
Participating banks                   36.5          -         36.5
Subborrowers                          32.8                    32.8
Total                             119.5         63.5      183.0
/a Including US$16.6 million equivalent in taxes and duties.
/b  USAID may provide financing for this project at a later stage in parallel
with the Bank loan (para. 55).



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
-- ------ -( million) …
Annual           46      20       14       16        4
Cumulative       46      66       80      96       100
Economic
Rate of Return       Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5514-PH, dated May 10, 1985.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Central Bank of the Philippines with the guarantee of the Republic of
the Philippines for the equivalent of $100.0 million, to help finance an
agricultural credit project. The loan would be repaid over 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1V
2.        An economic report entitled "The Philippines:  An Agenda for Adjust-
ment and Growth" (No. 5258-PH) was distributed to the Executive Directors
under Sec. H84-1038, dated December 14, 1984. A special report, "The Philip-
pines: A Review of External Debt" (No. 4912-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on November 2, 1984. Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, the Philippines followed a much more dynamic,
growth-oriented development strategy than in earlier decades. The growth rate
of GDP rose from 5.1Z in the 1960s to 6.2% in the 1970s, a rate well above
that of lower middle-income oil importers (5.6Z) but lower than that of com-
parable Asian countries. During the 1970s, the agricultural sector grew at
about 4.9Z p.a. and manufacturing industry at 7.2%. Manufacturing, however,
did not play _ leading role in the country's economic development. Although
manufactured exports grew rapidly, the greater part of the sector remained
oriented to the domestic market and was affected by severe inefficiencies.
4.        Although economic performance was relatively good in the 1970s,
structural weaknesses held it below its full potential. GDP growth was
achieved at a high investment cost - the incremental capital/output ratio
(ICOR) was about 35% higher than those of comparable Asian countries.
Although inherently capital-intensive infrastructure investments explain part
of the high ICOR, inefficiency of industrial investment was the more important
cause. Inappropriate trade, industrial, financial, and exchange rate policies
designed to foster import substitution provided high protection for domestic
manufacturers, and led to investments in which the Philippines did not have a
clear comparative advantage. External borrowing and imports expanded rapidly
1/   This section is substantialLy the same as that contained in the Presi-
dent's Report for the Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 31, 1985.



-2-
while traditional exports and domestic resource mobilization lagged. This
resulted in a chronic shortage of foreign exchange and increasing external
debt.
5.        Despite satisfactory aggregate growth during the 1970s, the inci-
dence of poverty remained around 402, income distribution continued to be
skewed, and regional disparities remained pronounced. The incidence of
poverty reached 60-70X in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, stilL suffer from malnutrition and
lack safe water, basic education, and health facilities. An increasingly
unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into mar-
ginal lands, limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and
the sharp deterioration in the externai terms of trade put downward pressure
on real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs to
improve directly living conditions of the poor, most of these were implemented
on any significant scale only during the last few years and are yet to have a
marked impact on reducing poverty.
6.        Population growth in the Philippines was reduced from about 3X in
the 19609 to about 2.5Z in the early 1980s; the labor force continues to grow
at over 32 per year, reflecting the rapid population growth of past decades.
Thus, rapid population and labor force growth continues to strain available
land resources, aggravate the already serious unemployment and poverty prob-
lems, and burden the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic
public services. The Philippines has a family planning program which expanded
rapidly during the 1970s; however, participation in the program is still low
by East Asian standards.
7.        Growth of productive employment, particularly in the industrial
sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the labor force, and consid-
erable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the agricu. ure and service
sectors had to absorb an excessiveLv high proportion of new entrants to the
Labor force.  Manufacturing employment stagnated in the first hElf of the
decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as labor-intensite export pro-
duction grew. Overseas employment, especially in the Middle East, increased
rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
Structural Problems and Adjustment
8.        The structuraL weaknesses of the Philippine economy have become more
apparent in recent years as unfavorable world economic conditions have
exacerbated the balance of payments, debt, and resource mobilization prob-
lems. In the late 1970s, the country's terms of trade deteriorated sharply
due to oil price increases, accelerated international inflation, and depressed
prices for major export commodities. The continued heavy reliance on export
earnings from a few primary products (coconuts, sugar, copper, and timber)
kept the Philippines extremely vulnerable to international commodity price
fluctuations, while continued high dependence on imported oil farther
aggravated the balance of payments problem.
9.        Excessive protection and an artificially low cost of capital led to
low efficiency of investment and stagnant employment in industries producing



-3-
for the domestic market. The industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments; although manufactured exports grew rapidly, their net
foreign exchange earnings were limited due to a high import content. Export
promotion measures induced rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured
exports, e.g., garments, electronics and handicrafts, from $50 million in 1970
to $2.4 billion in 1982. However, export expansion was concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages were limited by high cost and tow quality of
domestic inputs. As part of an adjustment program supported by SAL lending,
the Government has initiated major policy reforms designed to move towards an
industrial structure utilizing more effectively the country's comparative
advantage with respect to labor cost and raw material availability and which
is internationally competitive.  The program includes major tariff reform,
liberalization of import controls, realignment of industrial incentives and
improved export incentives. The implementation of the program has been good,
despite the international recession which has hampered the adjustment process
in the manufacturing sector.
10.       Financial Sector.  Although well developed, the Philippine financial
sector has not performed adequately in raising private sector savings and pro-
viding investment financing. Among the main reasons have been the level and
structure of interest rates which were not geared to mobilize sufficient sav-
ings and encourage longer maturities; their low level contributed to relative-
ly inefficient and capital-intensive investment. Further, the Central Bank's
rediscounting scheme frequently resulted in encouraging over-investment in
some sectors while others were relatively neglected. In 1981, the Government
introduced far-reaching financiaL policy changes. The banking system was
given greater flexibility, interest rates were deregulated, and the Central
Bank was given a stronger position in its role as "lender-of-last-resort," all
of which produced positive real interest rates (for the first time since 1978)
and a significant increase in domestic savings. Government-financial insti-
tutions (GFI) have made less progress; as a result of insufficient autonomy in
the selection of their portfolios plus a depressed domestic economy, loan
collection rates continue to be Low and their financial position has
deteriorated rapidly. To address these problems, the Government has prepared
a study on GFI's. The Governmenc, with Bank assistance, is reviewing the
recommendations of the study.
11.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  While the performance of the
agricultural sector was satisfactory during the 1970s, policy and
institutional problems constrained sectoral growth. Although there were
considerable gains in food production and towards self-sufficiency,
particularly in rice, the sector could have made a stronger contribution to
the balance of payments and overall economic growth under a more favorable
policy environment. Trade, pricing, and exchange rate policies discriminated
against agriculture and had a negative impact on rural incomes. The
institutional framework for agricultural poLicy formulation and implementation
suffered from a lack of coordination. During the last two years the
Government has made a concerted effort to address these problems under a
program which is described in para 30.
12.       Energy.  Since the 1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has
made a considerable effort to reduce its dependence on imported oil. Through



- 4 -
a combination of pricing, taxation, and conservation measures, the Government
exerted downward pressure on commercial energy consumption. Steps to increase
and diversify domestic energy supply, i.e., the development of hydroelectric,
geothermal, nuclear and coal based power sources, have contributed to reducing
import dependence. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in
1979. However, due to the Long gestation period of energy projects, domestic
energy production still constituted only 23% of total commercial energy supply
in 1983. In response to the second oil crisis, the Government included in its
adjustment program policy measures for the energy sector which aim at further
reducing the country's dependence on oil imports through improving the
efficiency of energy use and increasing the share of domestic sources to
nearly 50Z of commercial energy supply by 1987.
Performance During the 1980s
13.       The economic situation of the Philippines deteriorated seriously in
the last three years. The global recession, with low commodity prices, high
interest rates on external borrowing, and an unfavorable trading climate
stifled economic growth, slowed down export growth, depressed domestic demand
and private investment activity and aggravated the fiscal and balance of
payments problems. Real GDP growth is estimated to have been only about 1% in
1983, and -4.0% in 1984. Because of a substantial increase in net factor
payments, GNP declined even more, by -5.5Z.
14.       Despite the adverse external situation, the Government increased
rapidly its investment program to make up for deficiencies in domestic infra-
structure, expand industr-, and reduce the dependence on imported petroleum.
As a result the public sector investment program rose from less than 6% of GNP
in 1979 to 10% by 1982. A large portion of the investment program, however,
went for large scale projects with limited economic benefits and long ges-
tation periods. Private sector projects relied on puDLic financial insti-
tutions for funding and loan guarantees. and when these projects began to
fail, the public !inancial institutions had to turn to the Government for
budgetary support. At the same time, public sector resource mobilization
declined, producing a large and growing government budgetary deficit. This
deficit was covered in large part by foreign borrowings; in 1982, foreign
borrowing financed 70% of the Government's deficit and over 50% of the deficit
of the public corporations. To correct this situation and improve resource
allocation, the Government carried out, with Bank assistance, a review of the
public investment program for the period 1985-89. The Government has now
established a system to conduct this review on an annual basis. The Bank is
also working with the Government on a program to rationalize the operations of
Government-owned or controlled corporations.
15.       The impact of all these factors has been a growing balance of pay-
ments deficit and an increasingly difficult debt service burden. The current
account deficit rose from $1.9 billion in 1980, to $3.2 billion in 1982 and
$2.8 billion in 1983 (8% of GNP). The total debt service ratio, including
interest on short term debt, increased from 21% in 1980 to 38% in 1982.
During 1983, with growing economic problems, a mounting debt burden and major
debt problems in other developing countries, foreign banks began reducing
their exposure in the Philippines. The Government was increasingly forced to



resort to short-term borrowings to finance the balance of payments gap, which
further exacerbated the debt service problem. While the terms of trade
improved in 1983, a severe drought reduced agricultural exporcs, and overaLl
export earnings fell. The situation was further exacerbated by political
disruptions, a flight of capital out of the country, and a cessation of short-
term lines of credit from the commercial banks. In October 1983, the
Government announced a 90-day moratorium on debt repayments, a further devalu-
ation of the peso, and new controls over the allocation of foreign exchange
for imports.
16.       Discussions with the IMF on a new Standby Agreement began in the
second half of 1983, as did discussions with the commercial banks on debt
rescheduling. These discussions with the IMF on a standby arrangement con-
tinued through much of 1984 until an agreement was reached in December 1984.
In this period there were difficulties in establishing monetary control, and
as a result, inflation accelerated, and averaged about 50% during 1984. In
October 1984, the peso was aLlowed to float, and exchange control restrictions
imposed during the crisis in 1983 were dropped. Price controls on many basic
commodities were also eliminated. In addition, a series of new tax measures
were announced which were designed to increase public sector resource
mobilization and shift taxes on the foreign trade sector to domestic levies.
In December 1984, the IMF Board approved an eighteen month standby agreement
in the amount of SDR 615 million, and agreement was reached with the members
of the Paris Club for the rescheduling of approximately $0.8 biLlion in
official debt payments. An agreement has also been worked out with the
private banks for the provision of about $6 billion of debt relief for the two
year period ending December 31, 1986, along with $925 million in new money and
the establishment of a $3 billion trade facility. This agreement is scheduled
to be finalized on May 20, 1985.
17.       There has been progress towards meeting tne objectives of the
scabilization program. The current account deficit in .he balance of payments
and the budget deficit were reduced in 1984 in line with the program, and the
rate of inflation has sharply diminished. For the first quarter of the year,
the inflation rate has been running at less than 20% on an annual basis,
compared to 50X during 1984. The Government, however, has been unable to meet
all of the performance criteria under the stand-by program for December 1984
and March 1985. Because the broad thrust of the stabilization effort has been
maintained, new understandings have now been reached between the Government
and the IMF on new criteria. The Government will be eligible therefore, for
the next drawing under stand-by provided it remains in compliance with these
criteria.
18.       In view of the financial and economic problems of the economy, the
Bank has stepped up its aid coordination activities. The last meeting was
held in January 1985 in Paris. At the meeting, the members of the group
decided to establish a subcommittee to monitor progress in the implementation
of the economic stabilization and structural adjustment programs and to
monitor the flow of aid. The first subcommittee meeting is likely to occur in
mid-1985.



-6-
Medium-Term Prospects
19.       The medium-term outlook for the Philippines remains difficult.  Even
with the successful completion of the IMF standby agreement and debt resche-
duling, the government expenditures and imports will remain severely con-
strained. Except for those new inflows to come as part of the debt resche-
duling exercise, the country is faced with little or no access to fresh
private capital flows. As a consequence, the current account deficit will
need to be reduced from $2.8 billion in 1983 to less than $1 billion in
1985. As a result of constrained government spending and reduced import
Levels, GNP fell by 5.5Z in 1984 and is likely to be stagnant in 1985. The
unemployment p-oblem has become severe, and real wages have declined.
20.       A period of low growth is likely to last for several years after
1984, particularly in view of current reductions in the investment program.
The length of this period of slow growth, stabilization and adjustment can be
shortened to the extent that the Government can take the necessary measures to
accelerate exports, increase public and private savings, and use investment
resources more efficiently than in the past. The present crisis has increased
the Government's awareness of the severity of the problems and increased the
public's readiness to adopt the policies necessary to correct the situation.
In the longer term, the combination of increased external assistance and
Government actions could permit a resumption of growth at an average rate of
about 4-5%. over the longer term, therefore, the country remains creditworthy
for new Bank borrowing on conventional terms, despite current short-term
difficulties. Because the country faces an exceptionally tight resource
position, locaL cost financing for selected projects will continue to be
justified.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       As of March 31, 1985 the Philippines had received 97 Bank Loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $4,180.8 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 miLlion. IFC investments totalled $159.5 mil-
lion. The share of the Bank Group in total MLT debt disbursed and outstanding
is currently about 15% and its share in total debt service is about 27%.
These ratios are expected to be about 17% and 12%, respectively, by 1990.-'
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1985.
22.       Bank Group lending to the Philippines expanded from an average of
about $90 million and 4 loans per year in FY71-75 to an average of about $460
million and 7 loans in FY79-83. However, the lending program decreased
dramatically in FY84 (5 loans for $183.2 million) and FY85(3 loans for
$254 million) because of the limited scope for traditional project lending
under prevailing economic circumstances. The Bank has financed projects in
2/   These projections are based on estimates on the debt rescheduling.



virtually all sectors of the economy, with particular emphasis on agriculture
which has accounted for almost one-third of total Bank/IDA Lending. Lending
for industry, transportation, power, and social sectors folLowed in declining
order.
23.       In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the irriga-
tion system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
The experience with irrigation has been positive with the establishment of a
strong institution and expansion in irrigated areas, although cost recovery is
still a problem. Effort. have also been mAde to diversify agricultural pro-
duction through loans for tree-crops, Livestock, fisheries, and integrated
rural development projects.  Recently the Bank provided some assistance under
the Agricultural Sector/rnputs project to support programs of policy and
institutional reforms. Future lending operations will seek to follow up on
the reforms started under the Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project.
24.       In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has supported
policy reforms under the Government's structural adiustmcnt program. Struc-
tural adjustment loans in 1980 and 1983 ($502.3 million, total), supported a
series of reforms of the tariff structure, the system of industrial incen-
tives, energy pricing and export promction. The reforms suffered a setback in
the current economic crisis but the Government remains committed to progress
in these areas, which we expect will be resumed and expanded. A trade
liberalization and tariff reform study is currently underway. Part one of the
study, now completed, addressed the phase-out of the quantitative restrictions
on imports. This timetable has been agreed with Government. Part two will
examine what future changes in the tariff rates may be necessary when the
present program ends in 1985. An Industrial Finance Loan supported improve-
ments in financial sector policies including liberalizing interest rates,
r2ducing bank specialization and increasing the availability of longer term
funds.  It also introduced a rew institutional concept to brDagen the reach of
Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central
Bank. In addition, the Bank has continued to provide finansiai support and
technical assistance to small and medium industries.
25.       In the energy sector, sector work and the structural adjustment pro-
gram initiated under SAL II provide the basis for future lending operations.
While previous Bank lending focused on the power subsector, the Bank now seeks
to support a broad range of activities; in addition to recent energy explora-
tion loans, the Bank plans to continue assisting the accelerated development
of geothermal and coal, power generation and transmission, energy conserva-
tion, and rural electrification.
26.       Implementation of Bank-financed projects in the Philippines, which
had been satisfactory in the past, deteriorated somewhat in the last three
years. Implementation problems increased due to inflation, tight budget
constraints, and changes in the scope of the Bank's lending operations (a
substantial increase in the number of projects, new areas of lending, emphasis
on institution-building, and efforts to reach specific target groups and
lagging regions). To deal with the problems, the Government and the Bank have
instituted a process of joint Country Implementation Reviews. Six reviews
have been held since May 1980. The Bank and the Government have also agreed,



-8-
under the Special Action Program (SAP), on corrective actions to address
project impLementation problems affecting the Bank's loan portfolio in the
Philippines. Under the SAP, selected projects benefitted from increased cost
sharing and disbursement ratios, the establishment of special accounts and in
two cases, supplementary financing. These actions have facilitated project
implementation and resulted in significant improvements in disbursement
performance. The disbursement factor (amount disbursed during the fiscal year
as compared to the total undisbursed at the Ieginning of the fiscal year)
increased from 15X in FY82 to 19.6Z in FY843 although this Largely reflects
the impact of the SAP. The Eas%,Asia Regional average was 20.1Z and the Bank-
wide average was 21.2% in FY84;_  the comparable ratios for ThaiLa   and
Morocco were 19.7% and 24.5% respectively in the same fiscal year.-
27.       This will be the third loan to the Philippines in FY85.  In addition
to the AgricuLtural Sector Inputs Loan approved earlier in the year, a
telecommunications technical assistance loan, designed to promote and support
the sound regulatory, institutional and financial development of the sector,
was approved on February 19, 1985. Six projects are under preparation for
FY86. A coconut development project has been appraised and will be submitted
for Board consideration in the coming months. In addition, preparation
activities are underway for: a Manila water maias extension project; a
geothermal development project in Bacon-Manito; a land settlement project; a
public corporate sector rationalization project; and an export development
fund. Other projects under consideration for subsequent years include: an
irrigation operation and maintenance project; a rural roads project; and a
Central Visayas regional development project (urban). In view of the tight
fiscal constraints, the Bank is now revising its lending program to make it
more responsive and relevant to the country's current needs. Overall, during
the next two years, Bank operations would focus on essential macro-economic
and sectoral policy reforms,and high priority investment activities that would
require limited budgetary support.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
The Agricultural Sector
28.       Performance.  The Philippine agricultural sector contributes about
22% of GDP, employs 52% of the total labor force, and contributes over a third
3/   Excludes disbursements under the first and second Structural Adjustment
Loan. If included, the ratio increases to 28.9% in FY84 and 19.9% in
FY82.
4/   Regional and Bank-wide figures also exclude disbursements under SALs.
5/   Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs. Figures also
exclude SALs.



-9-
of the country's export earnings. During the 1970s, the sector grew at ar.
avevage rate of 4.9% p.a. compared with 6.22 for the entire economy. Under-
employment in the sector is high at about 60% compared to 25% in the non-
agricultural sectors. The underemployment combined with low farm productivity
has resulted in low incomes and a high incidence of poverty. WhiLe agricul-
ture continues to be an important sector, its growth has decelerated since
1980 and actually turned negative (-2.1X) in 1983 due to adverse weather, low
export prices and a gradual contraction of credit to the agricultural sector.
29.       Issues and Policies.  To some extent, Government's past policies and
institutional arrangements seem to have prevented the sector from making a
greater contribution to the country's balance of payments and growth. In
particular, trade policies discriminated against agriculture, pricing and
exchange rate policies tended to negatively affect agricultural incomes, and
the institutional framework for agricultural policy formulation and imple-
mentation suffered from a lack of coordination. To address these problems,
Government has prepared an "Agenda for Action in Agriculture, 1984-88,"
outlining the policy and institutional reforms that would be undertaken to
accelerate the pace of agricultural development and maximize agriculture's
contribution to economic recovery. The underlying objective of the Agenda is
to gradually phase out controls and interventions that dampen production and
investment, and stifle private sector initiatives.
30.       The recently approved Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project (Ln. 2469-
PH), supports the Agenda for Action. Under this project, Government bhs
undertaken to implement a core program of policy and institutional rr --:,ns,
the main thrust of which would be toward: greater liberalization of domestic
and foreign trade in agricultural products; improved efficiency and equity in
production, marketing and consumption of major agricultural commodities,
including coconu , sugar, -.a livestock; establisLme-t of a system for invest-
ment planning; and increased efficiency in the operations of government insti-
tutions. On the policy side, progress has been generally good. Government
has, by and large, adopted appropriate measures to comply with the Action
Program agreed with the bank. Some of the specific measures already adopted
include: the introduction of multitiered rice prices and an announcement that
rice price controls would be removed by October 1985; the opening up of the
rice, corn and animal feed import and export trade to the private sector; the
removal of price controls on pork, eggs and poultry products; the completion
of draft studies on the coconut industry, the sugar industry, irrigation,
fertilizer, agricultural credit and the National Food Authority; and a
reorganization of the ministries and agencies concerned with agricultural
development. Other policy reforms now under consideration with Government
concern: differential taxes on grain imported by the National Food Authority
and private traders; level of import tariffs on poultry products and trade and
price controls on rertilizer. In addition, the Government ac the Bank are now
discussing the recommendations of the studies completed under the project,
particularly those on the coconut and sugar industries. On the disbursement
side, loan availment has been less than anticipated for several reasons.
First, delays in loan approval led to a low level of utilization during the
1984 agricultural season which was already under ray when the loan was finally
approved. Second, the contractionary policies adopted under the economic
stabilization program sharply reduced the demand for agricultural inputs at



- 10 -
the distribution and farm levels because of high interest rates, Lack of
production credit and high input prices. Third, exchange rate reforms,
combined with delays in the Central Bank processing of applications for use of
loan funds, have discouraged private importers from making greater use of the
loan. Disbursements are expected to increase rapidly as a result of ongoing
commitments, streamlining of Central Bank processing procedures and a
relaxation of factors constraining demand. Broadly, the Government has made
substantial progress towards meeting the conditions for release of the second
tranche of the Lcan. The combined effects of the economic policies being
adopted under the stabilization program and of the reforms being implemented
under the "Agenda for Action in Agriculture" would be to create an increas-
ingly favorable environment for agricultural development during 1985-87 and
thereafter.
World Bank Experience with Past Lending
31.       Since 1964, the Bank has approved a total of 38 loans and credits
(S1.3 billion) for investments in agriculture, fisheries and rural develop-
ment. Bank Lending for agriculture and rural development has, by and large,
reflected the priorities and objectives set forth in the national development
plans, with emphasis on continued self-sufficiency in rice, crop diversifica-
tion, increased rural employment, and poverty alleviation.
32.       Fourteen of the past loans were for the extension of long-term
credit for crops, livestock, fisheries and agroprocessing. Investments
financed by these projects have been generally prgductive, and the completed
projects have shown satisfactory rates. of return.-   Eight of the past loans
totalling $130.4 million went to the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP). ALthough the projects emphasized DBP's institutional development and
financial viability, DBP carried high subloan arrears in its overall loan
portfolio (including subloans not financed by the projects) which contributed
to its recent financial difficulties. Four of the past credit projects (Lns.
432, 607, 1010 and 1399-PH) provided some $76 million to the Central Bank for
onlending through the rural banking system to finance farm mechanization,
irrigation equipment and rural enterprises. Performance under the projects in
terms of increased production and rural employment was satisfactory. However,
they were only moderately successful in promoting institutional development
due to financial problems of the rural banks arising from subloan arrearages,
particularly under government-sponsored credit programs.
Agricultural Credit
33.       Traditionally, noninstitutional lenders (private money-lenders,
traders, relatives, etc.) have been the primary suppliers of short-term
6/   See Project Completion Reports for the Second Livestock Project
(Ln. 1225-PH), the Second Grain Processing Project (Ln. 1269-PH), the
Second Fisheries Project (Ln. 1270-PH), and the Fourth Rural Credit
Project (Ln. 1399-PH). Project Performance Audit Reports are available
for Lns. 1225 and 1270-PH (Report Nos. 4753 and 4222).



- 11 -
seasonal produ':tion credit in the Philippines. However, during the mid-1970s,
as part of its general effort to increase production and exports, Government
attempted to inicrease the availability of institutional credit to farmers by
using the Central Bank (CB) to channel large amounts of Low-cost funds to
banks, mainly rural banks and government-owned banks. Private commercial
banks also lent for agriculture, usually for export crops like sugar and
coconut and for agroprocessing and marketing activities.
34.       At its peak in the mid-1970s, institutional credit for agriculture
accounted for about 65Z of total credit received by farmers. This was
achieved through government-sponsored production credit programs such as the
Masagana 99 program for rice, which offered farmers an integrated package of
inputs, low-cost credit rediscounted by CB, technical advice, and market
opportunities. Covernment also prescribed agricultural credit quotas for all
banking institutions and extended subloan guarantees. Medium- and long-term
credit was supplied mainly by the DBP. Since the late 1970s, however, the
flow of institutional credit for agriculture has been uneven, and from 1982
onward, it declined sharply due to the severe financial problems of the banks
involved and the economic difficulties facing the country. Since Government's
strategy for economic recovery depends to a large extent on the contribution
of the agricultural sector, the rehabilitation of the rural banking sector
will be critical to providing the production and investment credit needed to
maintain and increase growth in agricultural production, and thereby contri-
bute to the overall economy.
Problems
35.       Availability of Credit.  The current economic crisis has led to a
sharp contraction in the supply oE seasonal production credit. The liquidity
of noninstitutional lenders has significantly declined in recert years due
mainly to high inflation, which has reduced the real value of private sav-
ings. Bank liquidity has also sharply decreased due to a massive withdrawal
or diversion of deposits caused by shaken public confidence in the banking
system, reduced availability of CB funds, and ineligibility of retail banks
for CB rediscounting facilities due to their high level of subloan defaults.
Availability of medium- and long-term institutional credit has been a contin-
uing constraint mainly due to: interest rate policies which have not been
conducive to mobilizing savings and time deposits, lack of a permanent
"lender-of-last-resort" facility from CB to support retail bank liquidity
needs and term transformation of predominantly shorter-term resources, a
relatively undeveloped bond market, and lack of institution building for
development financing. In addition, financial problems of the DBP, a major
source of longer-term credit, have further contributed to reduce the avail-
ability of term credit.
36.       Institutional Weaknesses.  Structural problems in the banking system
have contributed to limit the range of services offered in rural areas, and to
increase transaction costs for the rural-based banks. The Philippine banking
system remains largely urban-oriented despite considerable expansion of the
rural banking network during the 1970s. Private rural banks which have the
widest network outside Metro Manila and comprise 45% of all rural banking
offices have, over a period, suffered from subloan arrearages, low capitali-



- 12 -
zation, and limited deposit mobilization, which slowed the growth of rural
banking services.
37.       Government Policies.  Government policies for agriculturaL credit,
particularly the provision of low-cost resources at regulated spreads, have
not always been conducive to viable and suGtained agricuLtural lending. While
government credit programs have generally achieved their production objec-
tives, the ad hoc nature and the rules and procedures governing these programs
tended to undermine the financial discipline of the banks. In particular, the
often relaxed subloan col'ection criteria allowed the banks to carry high
arrearages and loan defaults.  Interest spreads available to retail banks on
CB funds proved insufficient to cover default costs, and eventually the banks'
subloan arrearages and defaults to CB disqualified them from further CB
financing. All this adversely affected their liquidity. The credit programs
also failed to reach the majority of small farmers on a continuing basis since
many farmers became ineligible for new credit due to nonpayment of past loans.
Policy and Institutional Reforms
38.       The Philippine Government has formulated a program of policy and
institutional reforms designed to address the problems cited above. Among
other things, it seeks to increase financial discipline in banks lending for
agriculture, reduce reliance on government resources for agricultural lending,
and expand the availability of banking services in rural areas. The reforms
being introduced constitute an appropriate response to the findings and
recommendations of   Bank review of the agricultural credit sector which was
undertaken in 1982.-  The main features of the reforms are discussed below.
39.       Deregulation of Interest Rates.  Although interest rates in general
are freely derormined by the banks, the CB rediscounted credit for agriculture
still carries prescribed spreads on subloans. The regulated spreads tend to
increase interest rates of banks which can afford to lend at lower rates while
at the same time restricting agricultural lending by those banks which find
the spreads insufficient to cover their transaction costs and allow for a
reasonable profit on financial intermediation. Under the proposed project, CB
wiLl introduce market-oriented rates on its loans to participating banks with-
out any regulation of spreads to be retained by the latter. It will also
ensure that its interest rates on loans to participating banks are not lower
than the weighted average cost of the banking system's savings and time
deposits including the cost of mobilizing such deposits (para. 61). These
reforms are expected to stimulate greater deposit mobilization in the banking
system, more efficient financial intermediation, increased inter-bank
competition, a much broader access to credit, and increased lending for
agriculture at reasonable interest rates.
40.       Phasing-out of Government Subsidies.  Interest rates on Government-
sponsored agricultural credit programs and CB deposits with retail banks to
7/   "Philippines:  Agricultural Credit Sector Review," Report No. 4117-PH,
May 12, 1983.



- 13 -
fund these programs have been subsidized. CB and Government have decided'to
phase out subsidies on credit and the program will focus on the following
three categories: (a) credit funded from CB's own resources; (b) credit
funded from Government and other resources channelled through CB; and (c)
credit funded and administered by the Government outside the banking system.
With regard to the first category, which accounts for 90Z of total institu-
tional credit, CB agreed that all its new lending will be at market-oriented
rates consistent with principles agreed with the Bank. As for the second and
third categories, the Government agreed during negotiations that it would
first undertake a review of all existing programs and formulate criteria,
satisfactory to the Bank, to determine which credit programs may justify a
e       subsidy.  This review will be completed by December 31, 1985.  From the second
category, subsidies on Government's special financing programs (Staff
Appraisal Report, Annex I, TabLe 2) included in category (b) and which do not
meet the criteria for exceptions, wilL be phased out by December 31, 1986.
For the remaining programs under the second category, and those in the third
category, eLimination of subsidies wouLd be completed in accordance with a
program and timetable to be agreed with the Bank by March 31, 1986.
Government programs which do not meet the established criteria would be at
market-oriented interest rates.  During negotiations, assurance was obtained
from CB and the Government that subsidies on agricultural credit would be
phased out in accordance with the agreed timetable and no new program with an
interest rate or capital subsidy would be introduced for funding with CB's own
resources (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A (4) and draft Guarantee
Agreement, Section 2.04).
41.       Expansion of Rural Banking Services.  The growth in rural banking
services is constrained by the financial problems of rural and government
banks which are unable to undertake any significant structural expansion
because of low profitability. Many rural banks have either closed or signifi-
cantly restricted their operations. Further, past branch licensing policies
have not been conducive to the healthy growth of the rural financial market.
To begin to address this problem, a study will be undertaken to identify: the
adequacy of banking services now available in rural areas; constraints to
future growth of such services; options available for consolidation. rehabili-
tation and expansion of the rural banking system; and the role of commercial
and government banks in expanding rural services. On the basis of the study's
recommendations, necessary institutional and financial reforms will be intro-
duced.
42.       Rediscounting, Arrearages, and Retail Bank Rehabilitation.  CB wilL
carry out a study to evaluate its policies on subLoan rediscounting and the
restructuring and rehabilitation needs of banks affected by arrearages under
government-sponsored agricultural credit programs. The objectives of the
study are to rationalize CB's rediscounting policies so that they promote
greater deposit mobilization and agricultural lending by rural-based banks; to
reformulate schemes for subloan restructuring; and to prepare realistic
programs for subloan collections and write-off of uncollectables from
profits. Remedial measures will be de' ned in the study and introduced
thereafter.



- 14 -
43.       Agricultural Loan Fund Policy Advisory Group.  In the past, there
was no effective institutional mechanism responsible to assess credit and
resource mobilization arrangements for the entire agricultural sector and to
provide effective monitoring for policy formulation and its implementation.
CB has therefore established in its Governor's Office an Agricultural Loan
Fund Policy Advisory Group (ALFPAG) to undertake these tasks. The ALFPAG's
responsibilities will be as agreed with the Bank (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Part 3, (2) (a)).
44.       In conjunction with the main reforms being sought, Government and CB
will also undertake studies to explore new ways of extending financial
assistance to low income groups with inadequate access to institutional credit
by means other than credit subsidies, expand insurance coverage for farmers
affected by natural calamities like typhoons, and provide liquidity support
for banks facing subloan defaults caused by these calamities.
NOMINAL AND REAL INTEREST RATES ON DEPOSITS AND LOANS
Savings and
time deposits                   Range of interest rates on
(P billion)    Savings deposits        Time deposits             Loans /a
(at current    Nominal       Real    Nominal       Real       Nominal  Real
Year      prices)         (Z)      (X) /b    (Z)            (X)/c      (X)       (X) /c
1980       77           9-9.5       9-9.5    14-14.5    14-14.5         15-18      15-18
1981       86           8-12/c    t5)-tl)   10.5-18         2.5-5       17-18        4-5
1982      105           8-12       (1)-03)   10.5-18        1.5-9       17-21       8-12
1983      125           8-12       (1)-(3)      13-21        4-12       18-22       9-13
1984/d    142          10-15    (40)-(25)       15-22   (35)-(28)       21-32  (29)-(18)
(Sept)
/a   Relates to collateralized loans.  Interest rates on non-collateralized
loans are usually higher by 2-3 percentage points.
/b   Deflated by changes in CPI, 1980=100.  Figures in parenthesis are
negative.
/c   Interest ceilings on deposits, and loans above two years were lifted in
January 1981. Interest rates on short term loans were deregulated in
January 1983, except for loans rediscounted with CB.
/d   Real intere3t rates turned significantly negative during 1984 because
inflation rate was high at 50. The domestic inflation is, however,
expected to show a downward trend from CY85 onwards as follows. 1985-
20Z; 1986-15%; 1987-88-10%. Over a period, interest rates on both
deposits and loans are expected to be positive.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project draws on past lending experience and on the
recommendations of the Bank's "AgricuLtural Credit Sector Review"'. CB staff
prepared the project in collaboration with government agencies and the trade
organizations of commercial, thrift and rural banks, and with the assistance
of World Bank staff. The project was appraised in October 1984 and negoti-
ations were held in Washington, D.C. in April 1985.  The Philippine
negotiating team was led by the Honorable Vicente B. Valdepenas, Jr., Minister
of Economic Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 5514-PH, dated May 10,
*       1985 is being distributed separately.  Supplementary project data are provided
in Annex III.
Project Objectives
46.       The project's main objectives are to:  (a) help foster economic
recovery through provision of seasonal and investment credit to the agricul-
tural sector; (b) help establish an appropriate institutional and policy
framework and systems to support the development of a financially sound rural
credit system; and (c) increase the capacity of rural banks to mobilize rural
savings and improve the efficiency of their farm credit operations through
interest rate reforms, reforms in the Central Bank's rediscounting policies
and strategies for the expansion of banking services in rural areas.
47.       To achieve these objectives, the project would provide funds over .
four-year period for:
(a) seasonal and medium- and long-term credit for the agricultural
sector;
(b) studies in support of policy and institutional reforms and
preparation of a future project; and
(c) training of project-related staff and technical assistance to CB.
48.       Bank assistance for the project is essential to help support the
proposed program of policy and institutional reforms and the shift of
resources to agricultural activities in line with Government priorities. This
would be done by improving financial intermediation channels to the rural
economy and by making credit resources available for agricultural investment
and other activities. Although the demand for investment funds in the economy
in generaL is depressed, in agriculture such demand continues to be strong.
Therefore, this project and the institutional and policy reforms supported by
it are expected to play a major role in the economic recovery of the
country. The Bank's role in alleviating the supply constraint on production
and investment credit is thus both critical and timely. The policy measures
cited in paras. 38-44 will complement reforms initiated under the ongoing
Agricultural Inputs/Sector Project (Ln. 2469-PH) (para. 30).



- 16 -
Project Description
49.       Seasonal Production Credit.  Project-funded production credit is
expected to finance rice, sugar, corn, cotton, vegetables, fruits, poultry,
fish and livestock. The Bank loan wouLd fund the incremental production
credit disbursed by CB to retail banks during FY86 and FY87, with reference to
a benchmark to be agreed by the Bank and the Borrower. The benchmark will
take into account the contractionary trend of the economy and the constraints
of the stabilization program. Demand for production credit is projected to
total P 1,300 million ($65 million) during FY86-87. This is in line with the
country's need for additional resources in the agricultural sector to support
the country's economic recovery and the reduced supply of both institutional
and noninstitutional short-term credit. The funds initially provided by the
Bank would subsequently be recycled to medium- and long-term subloans as
increased domestic resources become available for short-term lending. The
beneficiaries of credit extended by the rural banks would include mainly the
small and medium size farmers and entrepreneurs while beneficiaries of other
banks would include mainly medium and large size borrowers.
50.       Medium- and Long-Term Credit.  The project would fund CB's medium-
and long-term loans channeled through the banking system for a broad spectrum
of agricultural investments in areas such as poultry, livestock and fisheries
development; plantation crops; agroprocessing and post-harvest facilities; and
selective farm mechanization. Any viable subproject conforming to techno-
economic feasibility criteria will be eligible for financing regardless of
size. However, rural banks are expected to lend mostly for smaller projects
since no single subloan of a rural bank can exceed 15Z of its equity which is
usually P 1-15 million. Subprojects involving subloans of P 10 million
($500,000) or more would require CB's prior concurrence. World Bank approval
would be required for subloans of P 20 million ($1.0 million) and above (draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A, (3), (c)). On average, demand for
project-supported investment credit is projected at $20 million equivalent
p.a.; this is in line with lending under past projects which the Bank assisted
in financing, which averaged S22 million equivalent p.a. during 1979-84.
Unlike past Bank-assisted projects, which were institution- or cotmodity-
specific, the proposed project allows for participation of the entire banking
system in project lending and provides greater geographical and farmer
coverage and flexibility in the use of loan proceeds. While demand may
initially be somewhat low, it is expected to increase as the effects of
Government's ongoing economic stabilization program and the new price and
exchange rate policies generate a favorable climate for agricultural
investments. The project's market-oriented lending terms are also expected to
attract substantial bank participation.
51.       Policy  Studies.  The project would fund five studies in support of
Government's new policy package for agricultural credit (paras. 38-44). The
studies would: (a) evolve strategies for expansion of banking services in
rural areas, including the consolidation and rehabilitation of rural banks
(draft to be completed by March 31, 1986); (b) review CB policies on subloan
rediscounting, arrearages and the rehabilitation of retail banks (draft to be
completed by March 31, 1986); (c) define Government's approach to and policies
toward assisting low income groups with inadequate access to institutional



- 17 -
credit; (d) explore ways to provide liquidity support to banks with loan
portfolios affected by natural disasters and of expanding insurance cover for
risks associated with these disasters (draft to be completed by December 31,
1986); and (e) prepare technical guidelines for agricultural lending and
update CB's term lending Policy Manual (to be completed by December 31,
1985). The project also includes a nominal amount ($20,000) to begin prepar-
ation of a future credit project for the sector. CB would zomplete the
project-related studies within the time frame agreed during negotiations, on
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and based an the findings of those
studies, would thereafter initiate remedial measures in consultation with the
Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part C, (1)).
52.       Staff Training and Technical Assistance.  The project would fund
training to address skill-gaps of project-related staff and trainers in CB and
participating banks as identified by a survey being conducted by the Central
Bank Institute (CBI). Funds would also be provided, as necessary, for the
hiring of appropriate expertise to strengthen the capability of the ALF Unit
and the Technical Unit attached to the ALFPAG.
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost is estimated at $183 million equivalent,
including $63.5 million equivalent (35%) in foreign exchange and $16.6 million
equivalent in related taxes and duties. The share of foreign exchange in the
project cost is based on assumptions underLying an indicative lending program
and would vary depending on the eventual composition of the lending program.
Estimates are based on December 1984 prices and do not include physical or
price contingencies as it is a credit project.
54.       The proposed Bank loan of $100 million would contribute abuot 60% of
total project cost, excluding taxes, or about 55% of total gross costs. The
Bank loan would finance 100% of the foreign exchange requirement plus an esti-
mated 37% of local costs which is justified by the Philippines' difficult
economic situation and current shortage of counterpart funds (para. 20). The
remaining project cost would be funded by CB from resources to be raised in
the bond market (8X), participating banks (20Z) and subborrowers (18%). As
the participating banks' and subborrowers' contributions represent estimated
averages, CB has agreed to fill any gap in project financing.
55.       The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is
currently considering a proposal from its Philippine Mission to allocate
approximately $20 million in parallel with the Bank loan during its FY85
(ending September 30, 1985). The USAID support would provide additional
resources for the agricultural sector during the period of economic recovery.
Project Implementation
56.       CB would be responsible for project implementation.  Under the cre-
dit component, CB would determine the eligibility of retail banks for access
to project funds, supervise the use of these funds, and monitor institutional
performance and the quality of the loan portfolio. CB would also carry out
project studies, initiate policy and institutional reforms, and implement the



- 18 -
training component. Subproject appraisal and supervision would be carried out
by the participating banks.
57.       Credit Operations.  CB's Department of Loans and Credit (DLC) would
be responsible for overall project implementation. DLC administers CB's
short-term rediscounting facilities as well as the longer-term Industrial
Guarantee Loan Fund which provides resources to retail banks for lending to
small and medium industry ard has been used for three previous Bank-assisted
projects (Lns. 1120, 1727 and 2169-PH).  DLC's performance in administering
the Fund under these projects has been satisfactory. Within DLC, an Agricul-
tural Loan Fund Unit would be established to onlend project funds, handle day-
to-day matters of project implementation and provide technical assistance to
banks participating in the project. All core ALF staff will be in place as a
condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). Overall
review of project credit activities would be carried out by the Agricultural
Loan Fund Policy Advisory Group (ALFPAG) which will: provide a continuing
review of agricultural credit policies, programs and institutions; liaise with
government agencies concerned with agricultural development; and coordinate
agricultural credit activities within CB's various departments. The ALFPAG is
comprised of three CB Deputy Governors in charge of domestic operations,
supervision and examination, and economic research. The ALFPAG will be
assisted by a Technical Unit of staff drawn from CB, complemented by new
recruitment to fill in skill gaps. Core staff of the ALFPAG Technical Unit
would be in place by September 30, 1985 and additional staff would be
recruited according to a plan to be established in consultation with the Bank
by December 31, 1985 (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part B, (2)). The
financial viability of CB's project operations would be consistently main-
tained through the provision of adequate counterpart funds, review and
adjustment of interest rates on CB loans to retail banks as necessary, and
retention in ALF of all profits to cover the cost of ALF operations, provision
for bad and doubtful debts, the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan and
such other purposes as shall be determined in consultation with the Bank
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 and Schedule 5, Part A, (3) (e) and (g)).
58.       Qualifying Criteria.  The eligibility of retail banks for access to
project funds would be determined on the basis of the following qualifying
criteria: total subloan arrears of less than 15% of outstanding loans; a
balanced structure of longer-term assets and liabilities; and the ability to
retain or hire qualified staff to appraise and supervise ALF subloans. The
eligibility of banks with subloan arrears above 15% but not exceeding 20% for
commercial banks and 25% for other banks, and with sufficient unimpaired
equity and reserves, after allowing for default risk, to meet CB's minimum
capital requirements would be determined following an institutional appraisal
by CB to ensure Einancial viability. A bank with arrears exceeding the ceil-
ings of 20-25% but not exceeding 35%, would qualify for project funds if its
unimpaired equity and reserves are sufficient to meet CB's minimum capital
requirements as determined by CB after institutional appraisal. Banks with
arrears exceeding 35% would normaLly not qualify for project participation,
but if considered eligible by CB on the basis of an institutional appraisal
and an established record of agricultural lending, their participation in the
project would be subject to prior consultation with the Bank. By July 31,
1985, CB would inform all retail banks of the project's scope and lending



- 19 -
terms and conditions, and notify all qualifying banks of their eligibility for
project funds.  Based on the qualifying criteria, CB has identified 15
comercial, 35 thrift, and 125 rural banks with a network of 800 offices in
semi-urban and rural areas as currently eligible for access to project
funds. An updated list of participating banks and a plan for the insti-
tutional appraisal of retail banks not meeting the stated criteria would be
submitted for Bank review by September 30, 1985 and thereafter updated semi-
annually (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A (2) (c)).
59.       Participation in project lending of the government-owned Philippine
National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP) would be subject to the Bank's prior concur-
rence, in view of the on-going plans to strengthen Government financial
institutions. These banks would also have to meet the qualifying criteria
described above. CB and the Bank may however agree upon a phased application
of the general eLigibility criteria to Government banks as a part of their
overalL financiaL rehabilitacion and institutional development plans.
60.       Lending Procedures and Terms.  Appraisal of seasonal production
loans would be based on typical farm plans which demonstrate the benefit-cost
ratio of the investment. Individual financial rates of return (FRR) would be
estimated for subloans above P 2 million. Project subloans would have FRRs
consistel2t with the interest rate on the subloan. Economic rates of return
would also be calculated for individual subloans above P 10 million and for
typical subloans below P 10 million. A subborrower's contribution to sub-
project production and investment costs wouLd be determined on the basis of
the subproject appraisal, but would not be less than 10%.
61.       Interest rates on CB loans to banks participating ir the project and
on iarticipating banks' subloans would be market-oriented (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A (3) (d)). The interest charged by CB on its
rediscounting of project subloans would fully cover the cost of ALF operations
and be at least equal to the weighted average cost of the banking system's
savings and time deposits including the cost of mobilizing such deposits.
This arrangement is designed to encourage participating banks to fund a rising
proportion of their loans through deposit mobilization, and to promote CB's
role increasingly as the lender-of-last-resort. CB's interest rate should not
be lower than the weighted average cost of the banking system's savings and
time deposits, including the cost of mobilizing such deposits. The foreign
exchange risk would be reflected in CB's rediscount rates. CB may prescribe
different interest rates for production and longer-term credit, consistent
with market trends. IndividuaL banks would be free to determine the interest
rate on subloans which is most appropriate to their operations which would
reflect the cost of a bank's overall loanable funds and transaction costs of
the individual subloans. Interest rates on subloans would be subject to
variations reflecting major changes in the weighted average cost of funds.
Interest rates on seasonal production subloans are not expected to change
because of the relatively short maturity. As a monitoring tool, participating
banks would inform CB of any increase above 2 percentage points over the
interest rate at which a subloan was originally disbursed.



- 20 -
62.       CB loans to participating banks and participating bank subloans
would be denominated in local currency. Repayment of short-term subloans
would normally be within 12 months. Repayment of longer term subloans and
grace periods would be based on the subproject's cash flow and related to the
subborrowers' repayment capacity. CB will deposit in the ALF all loan
repayments by participating banks, and use .hese funds for new loans, in
accordance with the project's terms and conditions and any further
arrangements as may be agreed to between the Bank and CB (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A, (3) (f)).
63.       Supervision.  Subloans would be supervised by the lending bank.  The
ALF Unit would selectively verify the end-use of project subloans to ensure
the effectiveness of bank supervision. Overall, about 20% of the subprojects
financed under the project would be visited by CB staff.
64.       TechnicaL Support.  Government extension staff are available
throughout the country to advise on crop production, livestock and fisher-
ies. CB has also established 15 regional loan teams to assist rural and
thrift banks in subloan appraisal and supervision, and has deployed some 90
agricultural credit supervisors in the field. Responsibility for subloan
decisions would, however, rest with the lender. Technical and extension staff
deployed in the field by CB and Government would be made available to retail
banks upon request, in support of subproject appraisal and supervision (draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part B,(5) (b) and draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.03).
Procurement
65.       Civil Works.  Most civil works under the project would be relatively
small, widely dispersed and therefore unsuited to international or local com-
petitive bidding (ICB or LCB). However, sufficient private contractors are
available for construction of civil works on a competitive basis through
normal commercial channels. Participating banks would ensure that civil works
costing less than P 200,000 (S10,000) would be carried out or contracted in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; individual contracts
costing from P 200,000 to P 5 million ($250,000) would be carried out in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank after solicitation of
price quotations from at least three suppliers. The requirement of obtaining
price quotations would be waived for subprojects in remote areas where
supplier representation is insufficient. Larger contracts costing more than
P 5 million would be awarded on the basis of LCB, in which foreign firms
operating in the Philippines would be allowed to bid. LCB would be in
accordance with standard bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, and is
expected to be used for civil works contracts totaling P 200 million
($10 million). CB would review the compliance of participating banks with
procurement procedures during its periodic supervision of project-assisted
subloans.
66.       Machinery and Equipment.  ICB for machinery and equipment would not
be feasible because the size of individual investments would be too small, and
bulking of contracts is not practicable because of their expected diversity
and wide dispersal both in location and time. Instead, ordinary commercial



- 21 -
channels involving both local and foreign firms operating in the Philippines
would be used. All suppliers are required to be accredited by CB's Agricul-
tural Machinery Manufacturers/Distributors Accreditation Committee (AMDAC).
Only those suppliers who have service shops and mechanics at strategic loca-
tions to repair and replenish machinery items are accredited. By September
30, 1985, AMDAC would be reconstituted to include representatives of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF), CB, and the Agricultural Machinery
Manufacturers and Dealers Association (draft Loan Agreement Schedule 5, Part B
(4)) and a notice would be issued indicating the probable composition of
machinery imports for the following twelve month period for the Philippines
and inviting manufacturers and dealers to seek accreditation with AMDAC (draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section I, Part A (2)).  CB and MAF would annually
issue this notice in major international papers.
Disbursements
67.       In view of the country's financial constraints, a front-loading
disbursement procedure is proposed under which the Bank would reimburse 100%
of the subloans disbursed by participating banks for seasonaL production
credit up to a total of $30 million, within the overall reimbursement of 67Z
of subloan amounts disbursed during the project period. In the current
circumstances, this is considered justifiable (para. 20). Disbursement of the
loan proceeds would accordingly cover: (a) for seasonal production credit,
the first $30 million of the Bank loan at 100% of subloans disbursed by
participating banks and reimbursed by CB, and the balance at 46%, so that
overall disbursement during the project period would not exceed 67X of the
total; (b) for medium- and long-term credit, 67% of project subloans; and
(c) 100% of the cost of local and expatriate consultants, and of project-
related studies and training. The project would be completed by December 31,
1989, and Loan Closing is expected by December 31, 1990.
68.       CB would establish a Special Account in accordance with Bank guide-
lines to facilitate rapid disbursement of the Bank loan. Up to $10 million
would be released by ihe Bank to the Special Account, representing about 251
of expected disbursements during the first project year. Because the project
would fund a large number of subprojects, disbursement for subloans would be
made against certified statements of subloans disbursed, with supporting docu-
mentation to be retained by CB. CB disbursements to participating banks will
be in the form of special time deposits. Documentation at participating banks
would be verified by CB during its usual audit of their accounts. Disburse-
ments for consultancies, project-related studies and training would be made
against normal documentation prescribed by the Bank. Retroactive financing of
up to $15 million is recommended for eligible production credit subloans
approved by the ALF after April 30, 1985 to allow the loan to meet the needs
of the 1985 planting season which begins in May (Schedule 1 para. 2 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
69.       CB and retail banks would maintain separate accounts for project
funds. The accounts of CB and the government banks are audited by the
Government's Commission on Audit (COA). The accounts of commercial, thrift



- 22 -
and rural banks are audited by Licensed external auditors authorized by their
respective boards of directors. CB also subjects most banks to an annual
operations and management audit. AlL banks are inspected at least once every
two years by CB staff to assess their ove-aLl financial viability and safety
of deposit funds. These arrangements are satisfactory.
70.       CB would send tu the Bank, within six months of the close of each
fiscaL year, audited project accounts including statements of expenditure and
the Special Accouint, together with the balance sheet and profit and loss
account and auditor's opinion on certificates of expenditure. CB would also
require participating banks, as necessary, to provide an auditor's opinion on
whether subloans are in agreement with the terms and conditions of project
lending. In addition, CB staff will seLectively review project-related sub-
loans and provide a brief report on the quality of subloans and the adequacy
of retail lending banks' supervision and records. The external auditors'
opinions and CB examiners' reviews will be kept by CB and will be availabLe
for the Bank's review during supervision.
Monitoring and Evaluation
71.       CB would establish a monitoring and evaluation system for project-
related operations to identify constraints, initiate corrective measures and
upgrade project implementation. The main components of the system would
comprise: (a) regular reporting on the financial and physical progress of the
project both within CB and the participating banks; (b) annual evaluations
during project implementation to assess performance of typical subprojects and
the project's impact on the financial condition of participating banks; and
(c) ex-post evaluation of the project's credit and institutional development
components. Monitoring would be the responsibility of the ALF Unit; evalua-
tion studies would be undertaken by the ALFPAG's Technical Unit or contracted
to a suitable research organization.
Project Benefits and Justification
72.       The proposed project would help foster economic recovery in the
Philippines through provision of seasonal production and investment credit
which would strengthen and expand the existing production base and contribute
to increased agricultural, livestock and fishery production and rural employ-
ment. The project would also support the Government's effort to establish an
institutionaL and policy framework which woul.d promote development of a finan-
cially sound rural credit system. Implementation of the project-supported
policy and institutional reforms is expected to bring about an eventual
expansion of banking services available in rural areas, reduced reliance on
government resources for agricultural lending, greater financiaL disctpline in
Government's agricultural credit programs, and, through project-related
training and technical assistance, improved staff capability in CB and credit
institutions. The project would be a self-sustaining operation for both the
CB and the participating banks because the interest rates on project loans
would be market-oriented and are expected to cover possible default risks.
73.       The project's aggregate financial and economic rates of return
cannot be computed since the actual mix of enterprises will depend on market



- 23 -
forces. However, based on past lending, some 85% of project-funded seasonal
production credit is expected to be onlent for rice, corn and sugar produc-
tion. Analysis indicates that the benefit-cost ratios of these investments
would be satisfactory in both financial and economic terms. To assess the
viability of typical subprojects to be funded by the project's longer-term
credit, some 32 indicative investment models were prepared by CB and reviewed
by the Bank. The financial rates of return indicated by CB analysis range
between 25% to 47% for poultry and livestock development, 18X to over 50% for
plantation crops, 29Z to over 50% for agroprocessing, 15% to 48Z for fish-
eries, and 27% to 50% for farm mechanization. Financial and economic rates of
return on the selected subprojects were reviewed by the Bank and found satis-
factory.  Sensicivity analysis of the financial and economic rates of return
indicates that the investment models could sustain a 10% decrease in benefits
combined with increased costs of at least 10%, and in most cases considerabLy
more.
Risks
74.       The project is being launched at a time when the Philippines is in
the process of impLementing an economic stabilization and recovery program.
Despite the uncertainties in the financial sector, the CB and Covernment are
continuing their efforts in support of the sector's rehabilitation and
restructuring. Against this background, two major uncertainties are associ-
ated with project implementation. The first project risk is that the agri-
cultural sector may recover from its present crisis at a slower pace than
expected despite the introduction of policies aimed at providing incentives
for private sector investment in agriculture, causing demand for project
investment credit to be less than anticipated. However, a continuing review
of the Covernment's agricultural policies is planned under the Bank-assisted
Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project (Ln. 2469-PH). There is also an insti-
tutional risk associated with CB's channeling of funds through a banking
system which has been financially impaired by the recent economic crisis.
This risk would be addressed by applying qualifying criteria to select finan-
cially viable banks for participation in the project, extending CB assistance
to strengthen the capacity of participating banks to undertake agricultural
lending, and establishing lending terms which would allow banks to determine
spreads on interest rates which would be sufficient to cover their transaction
costs, including the risk of subloan default. Ttaining in project-related
skills would also be rrovided to the staff of CB aad participating banks to
facilitate project implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Central Bank -Ž the PhiLippines
and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the
Philippines and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. An additional condition of
effectiveness is the appointment of core ALF staff.



- 24
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 10, 1985



-25-                                        AMNIE I
t L I La                                   Pai I of 5
a musa                       ournm.) ,
126A   19N&   21=~                    & *CPMV            TM. ANZ  euC
TOtAL                              300.0      30.         300.0
AODICUL.ZUL                         3.3       104.0       109.9
a  a G          Ce10                 150.        2500        620.0           101.2                   2106.6
cElOfuU oF OIL EQUIVALENT)        100.0      231.0       251.0.           547.3                   9,5.5
POPUZATION,MI-TXUR CUOUSS)   2739K.0    31.0            50740.0
UDraN POPUON CIZOP tOTLM)          30.3        32.9        37.9             24.7                    66.3
POyManaI aINCIoW
POUATI  IN LA  200 (lML)                                 73.3
STATIOIART POPATIO  (ML)                                126.7
POPUATIO NONERW                                           1..
POPULATIO DESm
PER SQ. i.                        91.3      122.8       165.1            261.9                    35.7
PER 8Q. IL ACGL TA               276.1     3254.3       450.7           1735.1                    92.4
POPULAXION ACE SUUCTrw  CE)
0-14 1WB                         44.6       45.5        43.0             39.0                    39.9
15-64 TM                         52.4        51.6        53.7             37.6                    56.0
65  .ANIDOVx                       3.0        2.9         3.1              3.3                     4.1
POPULATING mSW  ATU (C)
TOM                                3.0        3.0         2.7              2.3                     L4
URBAN                              4.1        LB          3.8              4.3                     3.6
CRUD  IRHn LZT (PR (MoT s)          46.7       44.0        30.8             30.1                    31.3
CRUDE D0T7  tC (PM  MOUM)           14.6        9.8         6.8             9.5                     8.1
GROSS EDEU .1100 RATE                3.4        3.1         Lz               L0                      2.0
VASTLY PtAMIN
ACCiTORS, AUUL (THDOS)              ..      191.7       375.0
USES (2 oF mIaEIn WOxW)           ..        15.0 Ic    36.0 /4           52.7                    40.3
INDEXI OF F0M0 POD. Pr' CA-ITA
(l969-71-100)                                 101.0       124.0            '3.0                    114.3
PE CArPIT SUPPLY OF
CAtaRXS CI Or RIQUIRDENTS)       0...       104.0       116.0            1.4.4                   110.6
PROmTEs (CRAMS Pa DAY)           *6.0        31.0        53.0             57.0                    67.3
OF UKICM ANDUL Al 3 PULSE       17.0       20.0      21.0                14.1                   34.1
CRILD CAeS 1-4) nu RAnT             13.8        7.9         4.0              7.2                     5.7
LIFZ EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       52.5       59.0        64.Z             60.4                    64.7
lWANT IIRT. RATE (PER TalUS)      105.8        75.0        51.3             66.3                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAE WATER (1PO1)
TOTL                                ..       36.0        43.0 /t          37.0                    65.4
URI                                 ..         ...       66.0  f          54.8                    78.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        33.07f           26.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO E:RlUE DISPOSA
(1 OF POPoLATION)
TOTAL                              ..        57.0        56.0 if          41.3                    52.9
URBAI                               ..         ..        76.0 If          47.4                    67.o
RURAL                              ..          ..        44. 0 7f         33.3                    24.5
POPLTrI  PER PYSMICIrA           6940.0      9100.0      7970.0           7749.4                  1917.7
POP. PER NRSING PRSON                ..      5390.0      6000.0           2460.4                   615.8
POP. PER moSPTAL aM
TOTAL                           1210.0      820.0       560.0 /d        10".2                    367.2
URBAN                            540.0      390.0          ..            651.2                   411.5
R33AL                              ..          ..          ..           2594.6                  2636.3
ADHISSICM PER HOSPITAL BED            ..       30.0          ..             27.0                    27.3
AVERAGE SIZE Or HDOWEQW
TOTAL                              5.6        5.9
DRUIA                              ..         6.2
RURAL                              ..         5.L
AVERAG NO OF PERsOU5IRDm
To W                       h
TOTAL                               ..        LI3.                           ..
MUIV                               ..         2.1
amA"                               ..         L4
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF mLLINS)
TOTAL                             16.5-      22.7        36.0
URBAN                               ..       59.9        82.6
RUtAL                               ..        6,7        10.0



-26 -                                       ANNEX I
T A B L   I 3A                               Page  2 of 5
PHILIFPZNE            - 100C£? XINDIeATORS DATA SHIRT
PIILIPPlt                          lRhN        U    WRIGRTED AVERAGES) pA
MOST                (MOST RECEN  ISSTIMATE) b
RCENT        MIDDLE INCOE          MIDDL 
1960L!    1970&    It NETATiEl     ASIA 6 PACIFIC        UT. AMERICA A CAR
ADJUSTID ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   95.0       108.0       110.0            102.0                   105.4
MALE                    98.0         ..        111.0            105.9                  106.3
PFMALE                  93.0         ..       108.0             98.2                   104.5
SECONDAYs TOTAL                   26.0       46.0         63.0             46.0                    43.2
MAU                     28.0         ..        56.0             48.7                    42.3
FIHAUL                  25.0         .,        66.0             43.1                    44.5
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)         14.3        8.9         33.9 jg          17.5                    33.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRUMY                             36.0        29.0        30.0             31.0                    30.1
SEONDARY                         27.0        33.0        34.0             23.5                    16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)             71.9        82.6        75.0 fL          72.9                    79.5
PASSENCER CADS/TuNOuSN  Por          3.2        7.6         10.21/           10.1                   46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOJSAND POP        21.9       40.7         43.5            113.6                   225.6
TV RECEIVERSITNODUSAN  POP           1.4        10.9        20.7             50.1                   107.2
NEUSPAPM ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           17.7        13.6        20.7 /R          53.9                    63.5
CINEIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA      0.6 Ih      ..          7.4 7            3.4                     2.8
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (tHOU0)        10915.0    13477.0    1101.0
FEALE (PERCENT)                   34.2        33.1        32.2             33.5                    23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        53.0        46.0             52.2                    31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.0        16.0        17.0             17.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             39.8        36.6        35.7             38.7                    32.2
KALE                              52.1        48.6        47.9             50.9                    49.3
FEKAlE                            27.4        24.4        23.2             26.6                    15.2
ECONMIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.2        1.3          1.3              1.1                    1.4
IClMS DI5IMRDII
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5Z oF ROUSEDLDS           30.1        25.1          ..             22.2
IGIHEST 20 oF HDOUSEHOLDS         56.3        54.0           -             48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEDlDS            4.2        5.2           ..              6.4
LOE  402 OF ROUSEhOLDS            12.0        14.2         ..              15.5
POZTTRST GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL fUSS PER CAPITA)
URBu                                ..          ..       260.0            186.6                   288.2
RURAL                               ..         ..        195.0            152.0                   184.0
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        266.0            177.9                   522.8
RURAL                               ..         ..        200.0            164.5                  372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLTE
POVERY ICE LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                               ..         ..         32.0             23.6
RMAL                                ..         ..         41.0             37.7
aNO AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OST E S
/a  TFe group averagem for eah indicator are population-weigbted arithetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabiltty of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Date for 1960 refer to ny year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Host Recent Estimte" between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1968; /d 1978; Ie 1977; If 1975; L  1979; /b 1958.
JUNE. 1984



ANNEX I
-27 -                                                       Pgeof 5
esnmuelm  bm     elat  LdOSem.  ow. euue.a                           um5 dleia              eu     "Iaaimittem  Ote duet.  1m4 ev,smbeitmme. meteSl U
e"mejm  meatftlases  lee sn   tea   eat  an m,s Pae  ai                bae  smetsgh  Auls. mud Mitt. One  Is ibmee hamam                            : eemet  ee :ea
mtmetmesl  It NW   mIl"    m  mumeOW     am  OAb  moaqes mm Oegm mm me Immae  rAttunsmt  mamma led ohm mia a tanee mud lnse NlW eolm  merlpm   b             ue
I"eaat us folaIsatramem   lmeaaetaS   ntt   tmmmme   m l  ald1  metu   t   Iem                                               smamn".mgm  a sAin menu        nomet   a
eiese m Gm  tmm   low eWs  edM ond1m   Guemao it".                           zilWKDW                   ,,hlt    dtetdrd be  ot ma re pml eltetri
liii am tatl doal.                                                                           WGIN)sta nrtmtteted-ino) 2          ebu. m eMERLs - ftumleme (atea.
in.  -NL= x     depat. GGILGIGG .2onsonse "G4.1   t"..                   -9.da     mAd meatS otndd leavest esee.9malc engtt  hml  medl ede
tlw, te", a  aces Idm.                                                                        at ma attMam  anIaeItM. Noimmta1   M  ftbisspcdns*  sedpstte mectamida
maeoft   ans acudoedude  bsred teMIAe5 oe  .ae.  lftma beant  ad
5.                                   an          clamG..4-  neatL..% GR-muvt meed tedt-. eatmol                    estutam, mar. macle.          - em.)  ad  offer uaeeetekm  smesndoelme a
sits,e  a      testddes dam.owelw  .,Rgielea. rId.n iHuatedLha -r mamabe soai l edatae   m-dmtsa
ti.disliitiactde Te ab   embe ci tedie.    de,a  wd"m
ann   anauesa   5e5,lift NUm lic  dAte                                               damJulmebel  leew.maiotea,  pelame
-vec   enetaec~ta  su   tame  em ten                      al    -cee.ecZmt..eAeeJudur mtlMmetm,l    ememmemURMeem I 
eels dmaimet"Ilte  loeanmme  Jlu emasatermeeutc.                  im                       mmeetedw pace                                              - a  meet -rpe
dank mL    iesal   eeoe ap  Mete .  m-uestemso tease.    Liy4110                                        oae             mlnessate...  1.h             .2a wtsamm
eec d tmue,  fetuI  tale  cep.LetMes msalplua.m  Rma 31.1                                   P..
pem.  ites ae ftec   e  llate-t   ls  bt alum. denim"                                  mdamct,man  ausaftaleneen.Is
VM..te W.eeesmee-  tea enmteL  5m alum mammma  an Rmu tames sibmmsl-.   -iiP e
JIlaUItatPU           tIs a    a1 5d5ltt  t.. - a  mm -madta  m p,utettdev
bmm  -ie  RMtdaat ro- mmed  pe,edtled   cccI al (a                                       selere  amm-se "Mtttai     Mld. dateSlum ~ d
,teecmdaeitma   edo-I.  ssell.=    * papetem. at ba-e  Cost daatnece'lon                              edjssce  ice. dlect-    4-temms  del presm ebgdatmalma  Su
a  endet  cat lat te.  ead  .mtepmm.atemcmt mc. bayem  sMGt  mud ties                      reenite   sd.u   w4SMMltlab mauat  iesd  memt ense minu lted I   nuWe
ouet tamL ta seem- .  ibm  amater eagmedl  atm  mm-  slaedme abe                            clna    Sel   m   eaa  ea    t                   c,cn    n
saimll sLe L.eej".td eteeaedmm   uaeuptai atenr    peltsIg    G   te-.  Gin               ooedm tmi.t .-mat IRta  a  lest.1- ta.   abo mGen.seedr
iii. iSit. hmmemcsesccMeosa-dc e d tenaac P"am aem  stetmi P..imaoty.  I       Ie¶ea   a  eemfe   nuaa
amaae     1.sslom   amtAm tamdend    te  acae  maMU    ICW rtdee  mtal        ecit-esqsjII=          Eycuae.pa m        maaet -O emmtnas neamtios 
-tel-P, clGEtesyuetimamec tmeetetem  a   Uetats Re lemma                                   toaelsac-Lte,  dIs   tIseM  -F ceerrumua   skIswm ems-m
ibe messylma ca    =etlat   eu Ia R. Genetmemm     tent S'Tuetae                           t-mdodmtu m-femadapesmm.eecetstm
mossm imhnit, ofeGamussammaesiecy tceRLddedmihte "mean ml dee teec  m di
t1.eazmiete   lutdssmr Muecima  me  ecme  tatac   rsee aamam  cuR_                         mseeemdu""'d
ieMiiiesicse taM. tre,ame  -GaGSs            lsse   1               . Jscm.              pliL      -twuu-s Godeksdl-s, siereo  nsde   dtt  tee        d me salmi m
______  ______             .I.___ ______       ac te es     N maca arse    R li                   Sat   k   1   4.
tale___________    low______    fltt-drem Roucstnmlr rGG - mo-inorS                                                     a     -o Iesaeenr se-seda0         ae
ta:mIsA. lrd : 17z2 a ie,m tzmL&w4wlm..
betedlen  act les's  ta        Ge..d GistG  G,-et                                          sddasedreanu dAeearis   aamca Wa   scupstum es  rudde
mI     S ae(a   amsd     oie   a    ut   s  bemdc   i-                            t        a.3m,dd  i,mcaemmea    eeqobcec    a
-malcotna  Lio, germ. --C ~   Imac.                            sec,c   ebelasGedIisImadm.
Cut  tmbmae (erabemmit-  ctsidecb  eeatmmed  l  adcae            T  tnlar  (mr  teecd   memstem)   Iimmtseilstimsima -
ta.1.rcblt.memlmc dented -GI                                                                                    L   setmarit  eatMI da.  mtemt ud a  im ts tm mutated
temam  taacta   - mcente. aeal Imimmdt:: dom  .airtml P-   e--   c                   a be d-idt ffat it      fuer -   a." at r atem - 5GM n .ue rnW .-
C..  ciiensi  em                       I eyem ema at   P-dc Roal. rtadao-                  TVi1-1                                     IVe a.d,m   mrCrt  m    s - eee ma    t-tat I
r  Slea                                                                                  cloamm  sC  drte   te jer.am Leeo. msc   rt-aeaem
eamat  edmmim  -teem tema  eJcre   ecc     reeemne Imt macee                           ma"-o sc
cildlmt  mem    mamS.o  mte.mmaem  u  mnti1lIWaRrcrm4.-aadPGI Ia                                                            . "...e"Ammia m-aI moe.  isimtmm sIRumSG
F-Pso.                                                                                                                    Z.~~~~~~~~~~~~~cmeeu    l.1   o.taidln  eue   mmra  mum an
7!!!!.L;r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~mmmuk.  tae   mma ie  e.
tamed - metleemmd mariotdpredetarPs..n mamlamt inellit. t"Ct, a   cat           a  tnt dmte
....I rPrmiocmtm I                      M. Ulamu' ee-m f- ete. mate   a  lamta. -trtiL.mte Mu
tnsmate1 nmt  Gmo mtmecm  leermm   mr drbme,maid -1  -iatet    Sec.                          ceieere-   u            esere    J tuid   -m.  ad  tgeal  imet t.cm.n mad
ateW  sqeteedesl ml  e hdp  menln mmci-tell  de -eat  wee           1                      .  ,I eset..mIerema. ..m  cmmt se s.d teals  Fc.ei   et altr seat easpc1tn
SemtpGoi Ga  denti  am~ atob,  tam am inta mmaam -es.aimafed. cMGadm.                       ml aMea   a-eecaeemee  m   emitm                        ia   t   em 
qmettnmmdacarteeim.ateesmmiotaeim.tanle-tmmtsemmfu    toftanec
acaala  aL1 ntt,e 1smel-rfe d.eetemSes tm-.e-de. tw ee madeam                               t1o.iemdMio      losotm emtmtc  itkl R. a   S-mat.L' pettets 
"en  a  anl dimactsatma mtlk   o"alc.  a11"  mGidm e Sm- te-uem  aIce anm.edUxte, -W
-a4-a     toat tnt -     Gt ies. a   tee  1 d  4ten.   .teem  clcm -t.afitiim 
umsmecteemCas r by,  em b    metm   eta,mcs   ciem.t-prrc  rimtmmtc it)- pe .2                                  t ...~ are  itIeramer, at emees 5   rumme - ml
-ttemstr   atmu M      ml ca   pueet seIdc  md 5  re Rod  smiact mmde                                                R   M.md14
ttera  e   lame case  issml I arcc 1=1emamieu..ta   ioet..Mftemm  -amesce  me   eriie  neor                                           -a seil    erneta. a
.IsatM  ttsce _ ene_a.kelkee      mat.  aem  Lce  Icrda   a                          temdb   cmperdmm.,medmi   ni-
tate=ad  and6 fsce  ams.   etc. Wm itm  deme  dsIae    semcrceeit                                                            ln   a    e   at)-.Cmamm
Fardnd   oSues. sed e  ae  _leal. rsee    Pee - its tini-rd W   itt Imat-eneimiWmte m_Ace.dt cdm. osanceeles.m.l   mac                                          .a
deta'eM    Mi   elaSe  hu, tae.    it;m.  Cf;- m            Md te   St .                    oc,tsst swm.muat cdat.11   tri.1 tuaCmdel   enc                     ce
BIlE        G                                                                               isell.morecadd...~_     1 s ..tcm   fin  eAmis.  tee" ctt tce    lent"_      Insemma  - mt.
teemat titmtaee  tate  Scot eteeemedi - deamet d-IamN., a-tx  imleace                                    mec.di.te,an
leer ml en p-a etema tin tlr-Iet3s- . lees a  ant mmci
Gosm.mM L,acctedmese -ne d    euta    e Remmssic  tctete.4  meeam. aR--.It amelcim. ad er$-tem     tacatena
-itd." mate  m  paceof stear  Meeptdd  pesmatotlem.  La s
us- e team  -, be    ideecd am beeM  at.M. rac-ebt  -as  ti e"'
amntsn to aba  sett  5 antee -    ermm  -wl dtcetrmrshe  se.m
OA sat  . Ute pmae  (cad  crate,y me tsuea. emdh   seiEiet
ededlma dstcttcaiemm.st



- 28 -                                                       o     °"
Population    u 52.0 uillion  (mid-1983)
GNP per Capitas US$760           (1983)
P1IIL!PPINUI - UCOWHT  ?UI1ICATC1"
AMount
(Million Ims at             .            Annual trowth rates (2) (eonhtant price)
current prieea)                  Actual                  Fat.                    Pro tetd
Indicator                           1983           1979   1910   1981   1982   19R3   TW    1985   19Rfi   1987   19R8   1989   1990
NATTONAL ACCOUNTS
Croas domustic product           34,266           6.3    5.3    3.9    2.9    1.1   -4.0    o.n    1.6    4.n    4.6    5.1    5.4
Agriculture                     7,318          4.5    5.0    3.7    3.1   -2.1    1.1    3.5    3.5    3.R    1.R    3.0    3.R
industry                       12,364          8.0    4.7    4.5    2.1    0.7   -R.9   -1.0    1.n    4.2    5.5    6.5    6.9
Services                       14,514          5.8    6.2    3.4    3.5    3.7   -2.R   -0.5    1.n    4.0    4.3    4.R    5.n
Conmuuption                      26,959          4.7    4.4    3.9    3.5    2.0    n.1   -2.2    0.3    1.n    3.9    4.7    5.1
Cross investuent                  9,151         11.2    4.4    2.3   -3.5   -4.7  -3R.2   -1.6    2.2    5.1    4.8    5.4    5;5
Exports of CUTS                   6,650          6.8   12.7    1.1   -1.1    5.6    9.3    4.9    5.3   .5.9    6.2    6.1    6.2
Imports of CUTS                   8,R82         16.R    3.2   -2.6    3.2   -1.5  -20.7   -5.7    1.1    3.1    4.1    4.9    5.3
Crosa national savings            7,400          7.7    3.4    3.1   -6.5   -3.1
CDP deflator (1972 - 10n)                      247.3  285.7  317.2  343.9  3R4.1
Exchange rate (U9$I -   )                        7.4    7.5    7.9    R.5   11.1
Share of CDP at market prices C?)                          Average annual increast (2)
(at current prices) t/                                      (constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1990    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   19RO-85   19R5-90
Crams domestic product          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             5.1       6.1        6.2        0.4       4.3
Agriculture                    28.1    27.8    29.0    23.2    24.1    23.6            4.5        4.3        5.3        1.9       3.8
Industry                       25.8    29.6    33.5    36.9    34.4    35.5            6.0        8.6        7.5      -0.6        5.0
Servicem                       46.1    42.6    37.5    39.9    41.5    40.9            5.2        5.4                  0.8        4.0
Consuaption                    85.3    79.2    75.8    73.8    80.3    77.5            4.8        5.5        4.7       1.0        3.5
Cross investment               16.3    21.5    31.0    30.5    20.5    20.9            8.2       11.5        7.9      -6.8        4.7
Exports of CUFS                10.8    19.4    18.5    20.1    21.2    23.2            5.8        3.2       11.R       1.3        6.0
Imports of CNiPS               10.6    19.7    25.3    26.4    22.1    21.6            6.5        h.R        8.0      -5.0        3.R
Cross national savings         16.2    20.5    25.3    22.1    17.0    20.6            7.4        9.7        5.R        -          -
As Z of COP
1960     1970      1975      198)      1983       Labor force In 1983          Millions         2
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                          Agriculture                      9.R         4R.8
Current revenne                     9.8       9.5      15.0      13.1     12.1        Industry                        9.3          46.2
Current expenditur-.                9.6      10.9      13.2      9.3       9.6        Services
Surplus (+) or deficit t-)          0.2      -1.4       1.8      3.7       2.5        Ulnemployed                     1.0           5.0
Capital expenditure                 2.3       1.9       3.2      5.2       4.5
Foreign financing                    -        0.1       0.3       1.5      2.0             Total Labor Force         20.1         100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80            19RO-B5           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual CNP growth rate (2)                               5.1               6.1                6.2               n.4               4.5
Annual CNP per capita growth rate (Z)                    2.0               2.7                3.5              -2.1               2.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (Z)                7.4               6.2                4.2               0.7               4.3
ICOR                                                     3.7               4.3                5.2              23.8               4.9
Marginal savings rate                                    0.29              n.33               0.26              N/A               n.32
Import elasticity                                        1.33              1.12               1.20            -12.5               n.s
/a Projected years at constant prices.
East Asia and Pacific Region
April 19R5



page* I o 
U          a. at minuet p             Ti L An CUT
J1979    10              23 1902    3333                1          1bM        [toy          e 190    I9       10         19t4
iairy at ISla  e f aYEIMt.
brperts at  aeds and servic           *       .25h  *.0:0   goals13,001   8.132             *OIl0     3.475    91640    10,4O0    13,731    1t130    14.950    21,372
Of  hiLebh  eqeute of pad.                 4.601   5.711   5,722   5,021   5,00 5    9.31t 1.335               3.661      7.341    3O402        9.859    11.119    16,741
eparts of gemae and cervies                  3,101  1034U  11 ,21   11.330  11,334        9,636       9.7U3    103092    11,29        12.456    1136OU   125,1        23.001
Ot whicha  It_t. of boeda                  6.142   7,727   7,946   1,667   7,437        6,070       3.764      6.191      6959       7J90I      9,076    10,430    16,750
Trantsers (net)                                255      436     472      431      472        26          36b2       121       43         456        474        432        157
Warrest amest blIeaa                     i4 L7  -10k  -2.0i1  -3j0d   -2n              -1.S40        -946       -532       -413       -22       -20        -116       -572
Dioret  tnweeatuec (net)                        20    -102       175      17      112        -10          50        72         61        102        120        117        130
iS.? ices  (mt)                             2ISI1   1.032   1.332   1.548   3.392           -174       2.16     131,53        171        721        946        567     1,39n
Ouffiial-_enure lana (mnt)                   93U      32b     MIA      *IA      I/A       N/A       1U434      3,132      1.b15      3,446    13142       1,30 I      .035
Privta-uourc. 1ces  (4t)                   363     49       W/A      N/A      I/A       VIA         727       -279       -737       -723      -197       -136        l5
Other capital (net) fm                        -244      593      -6       34    -672          92          48         39        39         20         la         20          -
Overall blsne.                              -570    -321    jj0 -1.b21  -2.112 3        l,1!        3.311        732        U35        161       M!         J1         923
Iaternt1mal renerwe  (Cnd-Par)ftf            2,773   4.013   2.962   2.422        O0N       34                  -
at stlezrnatlol nrve (o 1f Wutrel
knit)                                      31314   1,045      2"  -1.370  -2,932    -3.003            6W       1 3.0      2,05      2,630     3.500    4A.0         1.731
taservee as mathe of leport.                   2.0      1.2     0.3    -1.4    -3.1        -3.7          1.0       1.         2.2        2.3        3.0        1.0       3.0
External Capital and Debt
Grou  D3buramme,nta                          2 134   1. U7   Z126   2 693   2 224          1429
ecleaaial lnT                                       'IX      TIT    aTN       ' 
IItlaerarl                                lI       75        X      1W        mI        srs
IDA                                        -T    -Y   -y   -F
tTr   multilateral                          Oa      ST        T        T                  -
Hocconce.atonal lans                       1,949   1,719  13924   2,313   2.073         1.172
Offteial ezpert erudite                    152        8      SO       66       93        122
1DM0                                       210     229      441      2531    34         610
Other ultllaterll                             83       33     119      125      161        216
Prtita  ecrcea                             1,506   1.399   3,206   2.076   1,232          402
laterual Debt
ebt outateedift and dlmbur-ed              7.201   3.435  10,34   12,143  13,659    13,39
Of icti1a-eurce                          2,329   2.602   3.494   3.365   4.824        5.62B
Privatae-aurce                           4.871   5,613   6,1S4   8.230   3,835        8.265
bdiaburaei debt /.                         3.641   4,0C6   4.5'6   3.999   4.200        4,309
Debt Sarflc.
Total earuiee ps t  Id                     1,430   1,013   1.250   2.048   1.326        1, 42
Of which,  Interest                        488     566       06   1.076      352      1.033
Payente ae 2 of eaprts -' qccd. and
ervices Id                                23.7    12.6    13.1    25.6    16.3        1.0
Average  oterest rate on o_ lta
Offictatl-eurce                                5.5      7.4     77    14.4        9.4       9.4
Priste-Meurce                                 30.1    14.3    15.5  I
Awvrage mturilty of n lomm
Officteal_-urcu                               23.1    20.2    20.9  39.0          3.6       8.6
Prlvte-eource                                11.1    10.1    10.0  1
oa _osntary ahort-cerm capital.  onetixatloa of gcld, allocation of BOle, ead errara  ad oea ene.
7b   I  tC tines 21d *d led (gm"e official reeerv    aed crrent value of gold).
i   Public and pebliely guaranteed  nly.
N;  Inlud-  prepseysee of 5492 SWISS in 1979 a*o  592 .lli   1  1930I   1985 awards reftecte usiuted reucbedulad eturitelu.
A Asue   adjuetent af abort ter  liabilitlee of 52,540  IllIce  through debt ra.cheduclng.
tact Ale and Paclfc liegics
April 1985



-30 _                                               ANNX II
Pa- =eo 1f 2
Til STATUS OF BANS  GROUP OPHATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINRS
A. STATINNT OP SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
As of Narch 31. 1985
Loan or
credit                                                                              Mount (luas  cancellations)
number      PT   Borreer                    Purpose                                 lank      IDA     Undisbirsed
Forty-ine Loans and throe credits fully disbursed                                  1,457.30    32.22
1227-PU    1976  lap. of the Philippines    Chico Iriegation                          50.00      -          1.96
1353-PH    1977              n               Third Highways                           95.00      -          5.61
1414-PH    1977                              Nat. Irrig. Systems Improvemat           50.00      -         16.18
1421-PH    1977              n               Rural Dew. Land Settlment II             15.00      -          2.47
1460-PH    1978  Natlonal Power Corp.        Seventh Power                            58.00      -          4.70
1506-PH    1978  Rep. of the Philippines    Smliholder Tree Farming                    8.00      -          4.14
1526-fH    1978                              Nat. Irrig. System  Impravement II       65.00      -         28.59
790-PH    1978                              Rural Infrastructure                       -      28.00       11.11
1567-PH    1978                              Nagat II                                150.00      -          3.34
1615-PH    1979                              Manila Water Supply II                   88.00      -         21.16
1626-PH    1979                              National Extension                       35.00      -         17.54
1639-PH    1979                              Magat River Multipurpose                 21.00      -          0.19
1646-PH    1979                              Small Farmer Dev. (Land lank)            16.50      -          2.52
1647-PH    1979                              Second Urban Development                 32.00      -          4.49
1661-PH    1979                              Higbways IV                             100.00      -         31.19
1710-PH    1979                              Water Supply IX                          16.00      -         16.00
920-PH    1979                              Water Supply II                            -      22.00       10.13
923-PH    1979                              Population II                              -      40.00       27.25
1772-PH    1980                              Sa_r Island Rural Development            27.00      -         15.53
1786-PH    1980                              Fisheries Training (Educ. VI)            38.00/c    -         21.68
1809-PH    1980                              Mediud-Scale Irrigation                  71.00      -         53.07
1814-PH    1980                              Manila Sewerage 6 Sanitation             63.00      -         31.68
1815-PH    1980                              Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Uloilo)             12.00      -          7.30
1821-PH    1980                              Third Urban                              72.00      -         35.17
1855-PH    1980                              Third Ports                              67.00      -         26.67
1860-PH    1980                              Rural Roads Improvement                  62.00      -         34.43
1890-PH    1981                              Watershed Nanagement                     38.00      -         19.87
1694-PH    1981                              Third Livestock 6 Flsheries              45.00      -         24.13
1903-PH    1981                              Structural Adjustment                   200.00      -          0.39
1984-PH    1981   Central Bank of the Phil.  Industrial Flnance (Apex)               150.00      -        114.77
2030-PH    1981   Rep. of the Philippines    Elementary Educ. Sector Loan            100.00      -         90.29
2040-PH    1982                              Agric. Support Services                  45.00      -         42.98
2067-PH    1982                              Urban Engineering                         8.00      -          1.25
2127-PH    1982                              Textile Sector Restructure              157.40      -        113.75
2156-PH    1982                              National Fisheries Development           22.40      -         21.92
2169-PH    1982                              SMI III                                 132.00      -         96.35
2173-PH    1982                              Comam al Irrigation                      71.10      -         58.87
2181-PH    1982  National Power Corp.        Coal Exploration                         10.00      -          5.73
2200-PH    1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Education VIII                           24.40      -         20.81
2201-PH    1983  Philippines Nat. Oil Co.  Petroleum Exploration Promotion             9.00      -          3.05
2202-PH     1983                             Petroleum Exploration Promotion          24.00      -         17.66
2203-PH    1983                              Geothermal Exploration                   36.00      -         29.69
2206-PH    1983   Rep. of the Philippines    Water Supply and Sanitation              35.50      -         25.37
2257-PH    1983                              Regional Cities Development              67.00      -         59.40
2360-PH     1984                             Central Visayas Regional Development    25.60       -         22.63
1282-1     1984                              KaniLa Urban Development Supplement      10.50      -          7.93
1639-1     1984                              Hagat River Multipurpose Supplement       5.10      -          4.26
2418-PH    1984                              Highways V                              102.00      -        101.44
2435-PH    1984                              Municipal Development (Second)           40.00      -         39.90
2469-PH    1985                              Agricultural Sector Inputs              150.00      -        116.73
2495-PE/b  1985                              Telecom. Tech. Assistance                 4.00      -          4.00
Total                                                                  4.180.80   12_.22    1,477.27             -
of which has been repaid                                               463.58    '3.67
Total now outstanding                                                  3,717.22   12L.55
Amount sold                                            31.94
Of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                     26.52                5.42      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                 3,711.80   121.55
Total undisbursed                                                      1,428.78    48.49    1,477.27
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all BanklDir-financed projects
in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
lb Not yet effective.
7F Includes $7.6 million NORMD funds.



- 31 -                              AMUNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1985
Fiscal
year                  Company                               Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Dev. Corp. of the Philippines           15.0     4.4    19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                          8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                    -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.           3.7     0.8      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corp. of the Phil.               -      2.2      2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2     2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial Corp.          15.0      -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemicai Corporation                   1.9     0.3      2.2
1974         FiLipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation            1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.6         0.6      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                 1.2      -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial Corp.            7.0      -       7.0
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                       2.6     0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                       2.3     1.2      3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                       3.5      -       3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.    2.1          -       2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                      4.0     1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                         9.8     0.1      9.9
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business                 -      0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.              4.5      -       4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SHSE                   18.5     0.6    19.1
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -          5.0      5.0
1981         Davao Union Cement Corp.                        16.0      -      16.0
1982         NDC-Cuthrie Plantations                         11.0      -      11.0
Total Gross Commitments                       136.2    23.3   159.5
Less sold, acquired by others,               90.8    14.4   105.2
repaid or cancelled
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC              45.4      8.9    54.3
Total Undisbursed (including
participants' portion)                       13.52    0.02   13.54



IBRD 1878M
IIC6    * I W.%%%Il R A I p It  (PIA' l " i NI                                                                                                            IBR   10
NV 1.1 tWiRAI,llI Al RI 1.11a%%
NCR  %.l I,        I  %. I .31 1411.1tIN
I 11.1ttes            VI Ils I I .111sv m-mA
I Ilorc,.N.G'..        't Aki.
*Alas                ', cap,                                                                                   PHILIPPINES
-20-  ; m.iiu.te.. ISl.l                                                                           AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT 20-
N- vobOccalm.tal
*LdUneIu,        viliIIt3I.3.3 Iv .%                                       '                  NETWORK  OF BANK OFFICES
II I A.VbA  %..U I I    t ;. uHomsU                                                                            0     MAJOR CITILS
; "il0"                l@. Sagio                t12   i           .                                                 AINPORIS
CaPlay.         VilIl I .'1 1% ,U, 2,  % .A'a  25  I,                                                             ROADS
KIe.qjag Ap.gw.      '  huIh,WFln Srm                            ..                                      *    .  RAILWAYS
IIdwiI "' Weu.gu. Se                            S          .       "-"'. ,                                        PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
- ' "ta"                Lw'nINi  ',                                    Apo.. -.                                   RECIONAL BOUNDARItS
:  NeVr-W1'wV                                  I         |                                                 -        INItRNA71ONlAL HUUNOARiFS
4 Oua.no                  SnuR=.n L.vtr        I        tooooll          .          Ii
III I 1NI HIAL tt4/911  IX 'AI I11 %I   IINI;5%.3                                                                 0      COMMERCIL   nIs
Nurvec. Ecl           - /elunR Iri NWt *                                                                    1N9    THRIFT BANKS
Torld~ ; ZnbW drlm  Su,                           \ Z lJ IW                    /      7                     i1    SPECIALIZED GOVERNMENT BANKS
- Panopw4se             Sulu t . '                                           /        7                     0-111    RURAL BANKS
22e131Cd4'               t- rW*. ?                                        II                                *&    lO > I  I
II.i.aP       .         RI I 1111% M%lI%IA%-%4                                                                    f*I0H         P1
IV YIUIII N% IAl-AI41.         A*uan d.1 N.et.  San        /               r
A.w.                     Aqg, de4 Su,    Fernando
- Oe,, 0s '               Buk.dnen                        Lc
r 50    220   250  200    50   200
16         C..rel                - Mmsea1,s OcodentarIPIta)MEIERS
-  L  "n,                 MIs 0-.1 O1,artal                                                           MitfS .
Bau.qu n."J" *                      Syvdrl  ot _I       Q                                               C         50        100       150      200
5.1I..kI No.N     1T0 IOC;
MI ndwu           XI I Aji I RN MIN2SNIAZAI              j   Jon
I.dwo 0-1n lr S..    -:O     del No O t.
Romeven                   On.a dISol          Anor.,
P* S,nege              SRuIh COe.ato.
V   tlZ [it""' SuY{lpo dr& SU,:1- DOgObPU         )    
Ca,,Pa,,a NOllr   X11 -ARtII!.Rt% MUINDANAD       Ni            M ANILA                                              P    A4+  -::          E' 5f  A
*Ca_ .m   SU-            Lama del Su,r                          t
a CtZ,,d,,   L n O dd SSF              |  y~~~~~ '  I .                                           V
S..p                     N-.Wh Ctbt. --   /              ~         _      
Mn   SuIl.., Kdo.1                -
SOLI.FH   l-tI/N  4                                 lIIJV   / 1                  '\ 
So. (J                     t                  /  Alle,.
IT                                                                                                                                                                     .    oel Oo 12-
2   III0,,,n
U~ :H     I 4                  i 
8-                                                                                   /P 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  -   l . 1   l0
'.3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~3
IX~~~~~~~RV
u wlElS row, I A B  oSSa n Xll /ON                                        / 
IS              ~~ ~~VL*s                                         0  OO</,
I   t \      Mw ,,;-o                                                                     .        --~~~Pces                  Swgo
130
MAC AVt^Ys,    -                                                                                                        de
| \; !. .! .~*  -._ -                            12O                           .                     _       *                                                     22_ 
MARCH19 






