-:-- ::-:~.-  - ~  -    Document of
The WorldBin-nk
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
-:=~&, .                                p    ;at        X           
Rpert No. 5514-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 10, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
-US$1.0         =Pesos (P) 20.0
1.00 ,            US$0.05
P1 million     =  US$50,0000
(as of September 1984)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha             =  hectare (2.47 acres)
Mt             =  metric tons (2,204 pounds)
t              =  ton (2,000 pounds)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ALF         -  Agricultural Loan Fund
ALFPAG      -  Agricultural Loan Fund Policy Advisory Group
AMDAC       -  Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers/Distributors
Accreditation Committee
AMMDA       -  Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers and Dealers
Association
AMTEC       -  Agricultural Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center
CB          -  Central Bank
CBI         -  Central Bank Institute
DBP         -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DLC         -  Department of Loans and Credit (CB)
LBP         -  Land Bank of the Philippines
MAF         -  Ministry of Agriculture and Food
NEDA        -  National Economic and Development Authority
NFA         -  National Food Authority
PCAC        -  Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit
PNB         -  Philippine National Bank
RPB         -  Republic Planters Bank
SES         -  Supervision and Examination Sector (CB)
SRO         -  Supervisory Reports Office (CB)
STD            Special Time Deposit
TBAC        -  Technical Board for Agricultural Credit
UCPB        -  United Coconut Planters Bank



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary .................. .... ...............             iv
I.  Background ..... .... *.........           .......   *... ...... * * ....      I
A.  Introduction ....           I............................***** *9.        1
B.  Economic Outlook .........         ....... ***..**..............          I
C.  The Agricultural Sector .........  ........... . ............ .           2
D.  World Bank Experience with Past Lending ...................               4
II.  Agricultural Credit and Agricultural Credit Institutions ......                5
A.  Financial Sector Background .. *...... .            ..... .... *. ..*     5
B.  Trends in Agricultural Credit ........         .....................      7
C.  Agricultural Credit Institutions ...o ............                        8
= Central Bank of the Philippines .........................               8
= Private Commercial Banks ..          ............ ..... .. .. .         9
= Thrift Banks ....o      ... .o.o.     ......... ..... ...o*....        10
- Rural Banks  o  .......s................. .                            11
G Government Banks ... ............. . o..   ... a ........ O....        12
D.  Problems in Agricultural Credit ....         0      .......................  13
E.  Policy and Institutional Reforms ............................            16
III.  The Project ... ... .o ................ .  .......  .... .. ...... .**..      19
A.  Project Formulation              .......................................  19
B.  Project Objectives                    .......              .......       19
C.  Detailed Features ............            00 *00......... O..*...        20
D.  Project Cost and Financing .  .........              ................. .   24
E.  Procurement . ..............   .......... .  .. .............            26
F.  Disbursements ***********************.*********........                  28
G.  Accounts and Audit .... o....................... .............           29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October 1984
composed of Messrs. R. Deshpand-e, D.B. Argyle and Ms. S. Kulsrethsiri (Bank)
and Messrs. K. Selvavinayagam (FAO/CP) and G. Grasel (Consultant).
Ms. P. Brereton provided editorial assistance.
This docnuent has a resictdoditbution and my be ued by rfepint only in the prformaneof.
Ilhi offxid duti  Its contents qmy not oerwie be dicosed without World Bank autborian. 



: | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
- ii -
Page go.
IV.  Project Implementation .....*****o...........................       29
A. Credit Operations          .........................................  30
- Central Bank of the Philippines        .........................  30
- Participating Banks ....                        ......        31
- Lending Procedures and Terms     ............................  32
B. Other Project Components .................... ...... ..... ....  35
C. Monitoring and Evaluation ....asse.... ....... ..*.              36
V.  Benefits, Justification and Risks .............................      37
A.  Benefits and Justification ..........     .................     37
B. Risks ................................................................  41
VI.   Agreements Reached and Recommendation .........................     41
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1  Agricultural Loans Granted, 1979-83    ...........................    8
2.2  Seasonal Production Loans Granted for Agriculture, 1980-83 ....      14
3.1  Project Cost Snmmary ..........................................      25
3.2  Project Financing Plan ............. ...........................     26
5.1  Benefit-Cost Ratios, 1985-86 Crops ............................*     38
5.2  Rates of Return on Longer-Term Subloans ........ ...............     39
TABLES
1.  Industrial Origin of Domestic Product at 1972 Constant Prices, Growth
Rates
2.  Gross Value Added in Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry by Subsector at
1972 Constant Prices
3.  Structure and Growth of the Financial System
4.  Total Assets of the Financial System
5.  Number of Financial Institutions, 1980-83
6.  Agricultural Loans Granted, Summary by Institution
7.  Agricultural Loans Granted and Outstanding, by Institution
8.  Agricultural Loans Granted and Outstanding, by Commodity
9.  Commercial Banks:  Assets and Liabilities, 1981-84
10.  Savings and Mortgage Banks:  Assets and Liabilities, 1981-84
11.  Private Development Banks:  Assets and Liabilities, 1981-83
12.  Stock Savings and Loan Associations, 1981-84
13.  Rural Banking System:  Financial Condition, 1979-83
14.  Central Bank Rediscounting of Agricultural Subloans by Institution,
1983-84
15.  Estimated Disbursements



- iii-
ANNEXES
1.  Policy and Institutional Reforms
2. Indicative Project Lending Program
3. Project Related Training Component
4. Qualifying Criteria for Retail Bank Access to Project Funds
5. Lending Terms and Conditions
6. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
7. Financial and Economic Analysis
8. Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Implementation Schedule
2. Flow of Project Funds
3. Central Bank Organization
4. Central Bank Organization for the Project
MAP
Network of Bank Offices (December 1983) (IBRD18786)



- iv -
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Central Bank of the Philippines
Guarantor:     Government of the Philippines
Amount:        US$100 million equivalent
Terms:         The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:       The Central Bank of the Philippines (CB) would onlend the
equivalent in pesos of US$99.5 million of the loan proceeds to
qualified participating banks at market-oriented interest rates
consistent with criteria agreed with the Bank. The foreign
exchange risk would be reflected in CB's rediscount rates.
Participating banks would onlend the CB funds blended with
their own deposit funds at market-oriented interest rates. The
project departs from previous credit programs in the Philippines
which generally had below market interest rates and regulated
spreads to the intermediate banks. US$500,000 of the loan
proceeds would be used by CB to finance technical assistance
for project-related policy studies, training and institutional
development.
Project
Description: The project would help foster the country's economic recovery
by: providing the agricultural sector with seasonal production
and investment credit which has been in increasingly short
supply in recent years; establishing an appropriate institu-
tional and policy framework to promote development of a finan-
cially sound rural credit system; and strengthening the
capacity of rural credit institutions to mobilize rural savings
and improve the efficiency of farm credit operations. The
project would also help increase the effectiveness of CB
policies with regard to rural financial market development.
Specifically, the project would provide funds for (a) short-
and longer-term credit for the agricultural sector, (b) policy-
related studies and preparation of a future project, and
(c) training of project-related staff and technical assis-
tance. The project responds to policy and institutional issues
identified by the Bank's 1982 Agricultural Credit Sector
Review. Project credit is expected to finance a wide range of
investments including annual crops; poultry, livestock and
fishery development; plantation crops; agroprocessing and post-
harvest faciLities; and farm mechanization.



w~~~~~~~~~~~~
The main project risk is that the agriculture sector may
recover from its present crisis at a slower pace than expected
despite the introduction of policies aimed at providing incen-
tives for private sector investment, causing demand for project
investment credit to be less than anticipated. However, a
continuing review of the Government's agricultural policies is
planned under the Bank-assisted Agricultural Sector/Inputs
Project (Ln. 2469-PH). There is also an institutional risk
associated with CB's channeling of funds through a banking
system which has been financially impaired by the recent
economic crisis. This risk would be addressed by applying
qualifying criteria to select financially viable banks for
participation in the project, extending CB assistance to
strengthen the capacity of participating banks to undertake
agricultural lending, and establishing lending terms which
would allow banks to determine spreads on interest rates that
would be sufficient to cover transaction costs, including the
risk of subloan default. Training in project-related skills
would also be provided to the staff of CB and participating
banks to facilitate project implementation.
Estimated
cost:
Local     Foreign   Total
--  (US$ million) 
Seasonal Production Credit            50.0       33.4      83.4
Medium- and Long-term Credit          69.2       29.9      99.1
Policy Studies                         0.2        0.1       0.3
Project-related Training and
Technical Assistance                 0.1        0.1       0.2
Total Project Cost /a              119.5       63.5     183.0
Financing Plan: /b
IBRD                   36.5      63.5      100.0
CB                     13.7        -        13.7
Participating banks   36.5         -        36.5
Subborrowers           32.8        -       32.8
Total             119.5       63.5      183.0
/a Including US$16.6 million equivalent in taxes and duties.
7i USAID may provide financing for this project at a later stage in parallel
with the Bank loan (para. 3.24).



- vi -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY              FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
--…-  US million)---
Annual                  46     20      14      16      4
Cumulative              46     66      80     96    100
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable.



PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance in
helping the Central Bank of the Philippines (CB) to supplement the banking
system's resources for agricultural development in support of Government's
goals of economic stabilization, recovery and growth. The proposed project
has therefore been prepared to channel funds through CB to finance the
seasonal production and investment credit disbursed by retail banking institu-
tions for a wide range of agricultural and agroprocessing activities. The
project is also intended to help establish an appropriate policy and insti-
tutional framework for development of a financially sound rural credit system.
The project differs from earlier Bank-assisted rural credit operations which
were generally commodity- and institution-specific. It would thus facilitate
a wider participation of financial intermediaries including commercial,
thrift, rural and government banks in agricultural lending; provide greater
geographical and farmer coverage; introduce flexibility in the use of loan
proceeds; and increase the leverage by which CB can introduce policy and
institutional reforms.
B. Economic Outlook
1.02      Recent Economic and Financial Crisis.-1  During the 1970s, the
Philippines achieved substantial progress in economic development, with an
annual average growth of 6.2X in real GDP. Since 1980, however, economic
g_owth has declined sharply from 5.3Z (GDP) in 1980 to an estimated -4Z in
1984. This decline is due to the prolonged international recession
precipitated by the second oil crisis in 1979, and serious structural problems
in the economy, including excessive reliance on foreign savings for funding
public sector expenditures, inadequate domestic resource mobilization,
inefficient industrial investments and inflexible exchange rate policies. In
1983, the Philippines' balance of payments deficit worsened considerably as a
result of the adverse effects of the world recession exacerbated by domestic
political events which induced both capital flight and severe reduction in new
commerciaL lines of credit. In the wake of the resulting economic crisis, the
financial sector suffered severely, as evidenced by a serious deterioration in
both the Loan portfolios and liquidity of the country's financial
institutions.
1/   A recent review of the Philippine economy including an agenda for
adjustment and growth is included in the World Bank's "Country Economic
Memorandum," Report No. 5258-PH, November 30, 1984.



-2-
1.03      Economic Stabilization and Prospects.  Since mid-1983, the Covern-
ment has initiated several measures to stabilize the economy by bringing the
balance of payments deficit and money supply to manageable levels. This was
accompanied in December 1984 by an agreement between Covernment and the Inter-
national Monetary Fund (IMF) on a comprehensive program to restore national
economic stability, supported by an IMF Standby Agreement for SDR 615 million.
Under the agreed program, Government has undertaken, among other things, to
reduce reserve money to an appropriate level in order to reduce inflation,
operate a flexible exchange rate policy to contribute to export growth and
restrain imports, carry out tax reforms to increase public revenues, and
increase self-financing by public corporations. By 1987, the economy is
expected to move to a more normal growth path, with much reduced and sustain-
able deficits in the balance of payments and national budget, and a more
manageable level of external debt. Real CDP during 1985-87 is therefore
expected to increase at only a modest average rate of 2X p.a. The agricul-
tural sector is expected to provide the main source of economic growth during
this period (para. 1.10).
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.04      The Philippines' agricultural sector contributes about 22S of Cross
Domestic Product, employs 52% of the totaL labor force, and now contributes
over a third of the country's export earnings. Sixty-three percent of the
total population lives in rural areas and of those employed in agriculture
(19.5 million), some 161 are landless laborers. Underemployment in the sector
is high at about 60% compared to 25% in the non-agricultural sectors. The
underemployment combined with low farm productivity has resulted in low
incomes and a high incidence of poverty, and about three fourths of the
poorest 40X 1f Filipino families live in rural areas. Income distribution is
also skewed.-
1.05      Nearly 751 of the Philippines' cultivable area of 8.5 million ha is
devoted to grains, especially rice and corn. Other important crops include
coconut (2.8 million ha) and sugarcane (0.45 million ha). The irrigated area,
estimated at 1.2 million ha, is almost entirely planted to rice; rainfed agri-
culture, which sustains 601 of the total rural population, is dominated by
mixed farming systems where rice, corn and coconut are grown. The average
farm size is small at about 3.6 ha for all commodities, 2.7 ha for paddy and
13.6 ha for sugar. About 851 of the total number of farm holdings (2.35
million) are less than 5 ha and about 402 are cultivated by tenant families.
1.06      Sectoral Performance.  During the 1970s, agriculture (including
fishery and forestry) witnessed a respectable average growth rate of 4.91 p.a.
compared with 6.2Z for the entire economy (Table 1). Rice production made a
major contribution to this growth (Table 2). Rice increases were facilitated
by a large irrigation investment program, adoption of high yielding varieties,
2/   The World Bank, "Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines:  A Review and
Assessment," Report No. 2984-PH, December 1, 1980; and "Philippines:
Agricultural Sector Memorandum," Report No. 4318-PS, May 10, 1983.



- 3 -
and increased use of fertilizers under the Masagana-99 credit-cum-extension
program. During this period, average rice yields rose from less than 2
tons/ha to 2.4 tons/ha.
1.07      Agricultural export earnings increased annually by 5Z during the
19709, far lower than the 12X p.a. growth in total merchandise export earn-
ings. The contribution of agriculture to the total value of exports conse-
quently fell from 73Z during 1970-72 to about 5O0 in 1978-80 and to about 35%
in 1983.
1.08      Sectoral Issues.  Though agriculture reains an important economic
activity, sectoral growth has decelerated since 1980 and actually turned nega-
tive (-2.1x) in 1983 due to adverse weather, the lower average world prices
for agricultural exports due to the international recession, and a gradual
contraction of credit to the agricultural sector. Government's past policies
and institutional arrangements may have, to some extent, prevented the sector
from making a greater contribution to the country's balance of payments and in
recent years contributed to the sector's declining growth. By and large,
trade policies discriminated against agriculture, pricing and exchange rate
policies negatively affected agricultural incomes, and the institutional
framework for agricultuj,l policy formulation and implemntation suffered from
a lack of coordination.-
1.09      Government Strategy.  To respond to the structural issues in agri-
culture and the changed macroeconomic context, the Government prepared an
"Agenda for Action in AgricuLture, 1984-88," outlining the policy and institu-
tional reforms that would be undertaken to accelerate the pace of agricultural
development and maximize agriculture's contribution to economic recovery. The
underlying objective of the Agenda is to gradually phase out controls and
interventions that dampen production and investment, and stifle private sector
initiatives.
1.10      As part of the Lecently approved Bank-assisted Agricultural Sector/
Inputs Project (Loan 2469-PH), Government has also undertaken to implement,
within the framework of the Agenda, a core program of policy and institutional
reforms, the main thrust of which wouLd be toward: greater liberalization of
domestic and foreign trade in agricultural products; improved efficiency and
equity in production, marketing and consumption of major agricultural cotmodi-
ties Like coconut, sugar, and livestock; establishment of a system for sector
investment planning; and increased efficiency in the operations of government
institutions. On the !olicy side, progress has been generally good.
Government has, by and large, adopted appropriate measures to comply with the
Action Program agreed with the Bank. Some of the specific measures already
adopted include: the introduction of multi-tiered rice prices and an
announcement that rice price controls would be removed by October 1985; the
3/   A more detailed discussion on structural issues in Philippine agriculture
is available in the WorLd Bank's "Agricultural Sector/Inputs Project,"
Report No. P3860-PH, July 17, 1984 and the "Country Economic Memorandum"
previously cited.



4-
opening up of the rice, corn and animl feed import and export trade to the
private sector; the removal of price controls on pork, eggs and poultry
products; the completion of draft studies on the coconut industry, sugar
industry, irrigation, fertilizer, agricultural credit and the National Food
Authority; and a reorg nization of the ministries and agencies concerned with
agricultural development. Other policy reforms now under consideration with
the Government concern the removal of differential taxes on grain imported by
the National Food Authority and private traders; adoption of a phased program
of import tariff reduction for poultry products; and elimination of trade and
price controls on fertilizers. In addition, the Government and the Bank are
now discussing the recommendations of the studies completed under the project,
in particular, on the coconut and sugar industries. On the disbursement side,
loan availment has been less than anticipated for several reasons* First,
delays in loan approval led to a low level of utilization during the 1984
agricultural season which was already underway when the loan was finally
approved. Second, the contractionary policies adopted under the economic
stabilization program sharply reduced the demand for agricultural inputs at
the distribution and farm levels because of high interest rates, lack of
production credit and higher input prices. Third, exchange rate reforms
combined with delays in the Central Bank processing of applications for use of
loan funds, have discouraged private importers from making greater use of the
loan. Disbursements are, however, expected to increase rapidly as a result of
ongoing commitments, streamlining of Central Bank processing procedures and a
relaxation of factors constraining demand. The combined effects of the new
economic policies being adopted under the stabilization program and of the
reforms being implemented under the "Agenda for Action in Agriculture" would
be to create an increasingly favorable environment for development during
1985-87 and thereafter.
D. World Bank Experience with Past Lending
1.11      Since 1964, the Bank has approved a total of 38 loans and credits
(US$1.3 billion) for investments in agriculture, fisheries and raral develop-
ment, incLuding 13 projects for irrigation development or rehabilitation and
14 for various credit programs. By the end of February 1985, the agricultural
portfolio comprised 20 projects including seven projects in irrigation, six in
area deveLopment, three in agricultural credit, two for support services and
one each in fisheries and the import of agricultural inputs. Bank lending for
agriculture and rural development in the Philippines has, by and large,
reflected the priorities and objectives set forth in the national development
plans, with emphasis on continued self-sufficiency in rice, crop diversifica-
tion, increased rural employment, and poverty alleviation. Experience in
implementing past projects has been somewhat mixed. While production objec-
tives have been generally achieved, many projects, especially those for rural
development and support services, have suffered because of ineffective inter-
agency coordination, delays in the provision and release of budgetary funds
and in administrative decision-making, and insufficient monitoring. More
recently, the emphasis on expansion of the irrigation system, which accounted
for over 50Z of the Bank's past lending, has been diminishing, and a greater
emphasis has been placed on rehabilitation of irrigation systems, crop devel-
opment, and strengthening of support services.



5
1.12      Past Agricultural Credit Projects.  Previous agricultural credit
operations (including loans for crops, livestock, fisheries and agroprocess-
ing) have been exclusively for medium- and long-term credit. Investments
financed by these projects have been generally pr4uctive, and the completed
-projects have shown satisfactory rates of return.-   Of the 14 previous credit
operations, the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) received eight loans
totalling US$130.4 million. Although these projects emphasized DBP's institu-
tional development and financial viability, DBP carried high subloan arrears
in its overall loan portfolio (including subloans not financed by the
projects) which contributed to its recent financial difficulties which have
had an adverse impact on agricultural credit operations in general. Four of
the past credit projects (Lns. 432, 607, 1010 and 1399) provided some US$76
million to CB for onlending through the rural banking system to finance farm
mechanization, irrigation equipment and rural enterprises. Performance under
these projects in terms of increased production and rural employment has been
satisfactory. However, the projects were only moderately successful in pro-
moting institutionaL development due to financial problems of rural banks
arising particuLarly from subloan arrearages under government-sponsored credit
programs.
1.13      Some US$23 million uncommitted under the Third Livestock and
Fisheries Project (Loan 1894-PH) and the Smallholder Tree Farming Project
(Loan 1506-PH), both being implemented by DBP, have been cancelled due to
DBP's financial problems. Another ongoing project, the Small Farmer Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1646-PH) being implemented by the Land Bank of the Philip-
pines (LBP), has experienced institutional problems, including weak field
office organization and subloan arrearages. Loan closing is due in June 1985.
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
A. Financial Sector Background
2.01      The Philippine financial sector is dominated by the banking system
which accounts for 60% of total assets. The sector as a whole has shown
remarkable growth in recent years in terms of both resources and number of
offices (Tables 3-5). As indicated in Table 3, financial assets grew by an
average 9% p.a. during 1979-83.
2.02      The Philippine banking system is relatively well developed and
sophisticated. It has, however, been going through a crisis in recent years
and is now in the midst of a major transition. Over the last two decades
Government made a conscious effort to support and strengthen the system but
its approach to this task was eclectic and resulted in excessive special-
4/   See Project Completion Reports for the Second Livestock Project
(Ln. 1225-PH), the Second Grain Processing Project (Ln. 1269-PH), the
Second Fisheries Project (Ln. 1270-PH), and the Fourth Rural Credit
Project (Ln. 1399-PH). Project Performance Audit Reports are available
for Loans 1225 and 1270-PH (Report Nos. 4753 and 4222).



-6-
ization and fragmentation of the financial market. Individual banks and bank
groups were legally allowed to lend only for particular types of development
activities or to narrowly defined clientele. Such specialization inhibited
efficient financial intermediation and restricted the range of banking
services available to the population. The banking system's capabilities Lo
mobilize savings were also generally insufficient relative to the credit needs
of the economy due to diverse factors such as interest rate policies and an
inadequate bank network. In particular, the system was unable to provide
sufficient longer-term resources for economic development.
2.03      In response to the unmet credit needs, during the 1970s the Central
Bank (CB) expanded upon its traditional function of short-term monetary man-
agement and stabilization policies, and assumed a key role in the allocation
of financial resources through a variety of special purpose windows, which
invariably carried concessional, subsidized interest rates. These windows
were intended to stimulate agricultural, industrial and export production.
However, access to CB funds was not generally assured, windows could be closed
with shifts in development priorities or monetary policy, and CB has hardly
been able to provide the banks with a reasonable "lender-of-last-resort"
facility on a continuing basis. The proposed project is intended to assist in
providing such a facility for the agricultural sector.
2.04      Following a joint IMF/World Bank review of the financial sector,5-
various reforms were introduced in 1980 to increase competition among banks
and expand the availability of longer-term credit. Most of the reforms were
directed at reducing the highly syecialized structure of the banking system
and deregulating interest rates.-   These reforms, however, had only a limited
impact because immediately after the reforms were introduced, the banking
system was affected by a major crisis of confidence due to the financial.
failure of a prominent business house in the country, and before the sector
could recover from this blow, its operations were badly affected by the recent
economic crisis (para. 1.02). To date, CB has extended about P 4 billion in
emergency loans to about 44 institutions.
2.05      CB's short-term policies in response to the financial crisis aim at
reviving and maintaining public confidence and reducing uncertainty in the
financial system. Through selective financial support to the affected insti-
tutions and stricter supervision, CB has largely succeeded in this effort.
The financial sector situatior in gradually improving and is expected to reach
normalcy as the effects of the or.-oing recovery program seep throL h the
economy. CB is also initiating steps toward its longer-term objective of
rationalizing the financial structure and improving efficiency of financial
institutions through prudent management and supervisory measures. Broadly,
its longer-term policies focus on enhancing the effects of the 1980 reforms,
51   The World Bank, "The Philippines, Aspects of the Financial Sector,"
Report No. 2546-PH, October 1979, and related background papers.
61   Interest rates on subloans rediscounted with CB are still regulated, but
would be deregulated under the project.



-7-
merging financial institutions to eliminate unsound units, and functionally
and structurally reorganizing two government-owned banks, the Philippine
National Bank and the Development Bank of the Philippines, which have met
serious financial problems.
B. Trends in Agricultural Credit
2.06      Government involvement in the agricultural credit sector parallels
its activities in the overall financial system. During the mid-1970s, the
availability of Government-sponsored, low-cost credit provided through CB to
various banking intermediaries expanded rapidly and replaced a significant
portion of the noninstitutional credit that had formerly dominated the rural
financial market. Noninstitutional lenders, including private moneylenders,
traders, relatives, landlords, etc., often had a comparative advantage over
institutional sources, i.e., banks, through the integration of product and
credit markets. They traditionally supplied about 70Z of all short-term,
seasonal production credit received by farmers, but they normally did not
provide two important financial services offered by the institutional sector,
namely, fobilization of financial savings and the provision of medium- and
long-term credie. Development of the ruraL institutional credit sector was
therefore importanit to provide these services. In addition, a healthy
competition betwe.n institutional and noninstitutional lenders enabled the
rural community to secure credit on the best possible terms.
2.07      At its peak in the mid-1970s, institutional credit for agriculture
provided mainly under Government-sponsored credit-cum-extension programs
accounted for about 652 of total credit received by farmers. Government's
first major intervention in agricultural credit was through the provision of
short-term production credit under the Masagana-99 program begun in 1973 to
bring about self-sufficiency in rice production. Government offered an inte-
grated package consisting of inputs, institutional credit to finance the
relatively capital-intensive technology, technical advice from government
extension yaff, and market opportunities through a government price support
mechanism.-   In addition, Government prescribed agricultural credit quotas
for all banking institutions and extended subloan guarantees. For medium- and
long-term credit, the Government-owned Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP) financed rural development through credit, either directly or through
private development banks which received both equity and loans from DBP. The
Government also used rural banks to undertake term-lending for farm machinery,
7/   Under a supervised credit program, a farmer-borrower undertakes to adopt
proven farm practices or a package of technology and abide by an approved
farm plan and budget jointLy prepared by him and an authorized credit
supervisor. A loan is disbursed without collateral against the joint
guarantee of a 4-5 member farmer group. In comparison, nonsupervised
credit for agricultural operations implies that loans are disbursed
without a farm plan and budget, or mandatory technical guidance and
supervision. Nonsupervised loans are disbursed primarily on the basis of
collateral security offered, borrowers' creditworthiness, and the
apparent viability of the project proposed.



8
livestock, fishery development and other activities, with technical assistance
and funding from CB under four Bank-assisted rural credit projects (para.
1.12). Since the late 1970s, however, the flow of institutional credit has
been uneven, and from 1982 onward it declined sharply due to diverse problems
of the institutions involved in the sector (Table 2.1). Although noninsti-
tutional credit replaced bank lending for several years, it too has been
affected by the country's economic crisis and credit from all sources is now
severely limited. Since Government's strategy for economic recovery depends
to a large extent on the contribution of the agricultural sector, the
rehabilit&tion of the rural banking sector will be critical to providing the
production and investment credit needed to maintain and increase growth in
agricultural production, and thereby contribute to the overall economy.
Table 2.1: AGRICULTURAL LOANS GRANTED, 1979-83 /a
(P billion at 1978 prices) /b
Farm Production                         All Activities
-ov't   Private           X increase    Gov't   Private             Z increase
banks    banks   Total   (decrease)    banks    banks    Total   (decrease)
1979     3.7     11.9    15.6         25          8.4     30.9      39.3          9
1980     3.1     14.1    17.2         10          8.2     35.6      43.8         17
1981     2.7     17.4    20.1         17          8.7     41.9      50.6         16
1982     3.3     17.2    20.5          2          6.4     38.7      45.1         (9)
1983     2.3     15.1    17.4        (16) /c      4.6     38.9      43.5         (6) /c
/a  Data are based partly on best estimates of the Technical Board for
Agricultural Credit (TBAC) and should be regarded as indicative. Data on
agricultural loans granted by agency and commodity are provided in
Tables 6-8.
/b  Current prices deflated by producer price index for agricultural products
(1978 = 100).
/c  During 1984, the supply of credit declined by a further 60Z in real terms.
C. Agricultural Credit Institutions
2.08      Almost all institutional credit for agriculture is provided by a
network of private commercial, thrift, rural, and government-owned banks, with
resource support from the Central Bank. Tables 6-8 show the amount of agri-
cultural lending carried out by the various types of banks and the commodities
supported.
Central Bank of the Philippines
2.09      Agricultural credit operations of the banking system are guided,
regulated and funded by CB. For over a decade, CB has been providing refi-
nance for up to 100% of subloans disbursed under supervised and nonsupervised



-9-
credit. During 1965-83, CB provided funds for up to 90% of the rural banks'
medium- and long-term Loans extended under the Bank-assisted rural credit
projec.s. CB has also been supplementing DBP's resources for its medium- and
long-term Lendpg in agriculture.  In 1982, the Bank's Agricultual Credit
Secto- Review -_ noted the institutional and policy deficiencies in agri-
cultural credit, including the lack of an effective mechanism to monitor or
oversee the lending strategies, performance and financial viability of indi-
vidual credit institutions. The review concluded that, among other things,
Government should establish an agency or a central mechanism to provide both
financial and nonfinancial support to retail lending institutions and to
coordinate their activities. Government agreed with this recommendation and,
as a first step, decided that an Agricultural Loan Fund (ALF) should be
established within CB to finance agricultural investments made by all eligible
retail lending institutions. Through the ALF, CB will strengthen its develop-
mental role and will be more effective in influencing overall rural financial
market development. Establishment of a separate agricultural development bank
is not deemed necessary at this stage since a network of commercial, thrift
and rural banks, acting as the principal mobilizers of savings, would be able
to provide agricultural finance.
Private Commercial Banks
2.10      The Philippine private commercial banking system comprises 28 domes-
tic banks and four branches of foreign banks whi ch operate through 1,904
offices spread over all regions of the country.9   Private commercial banks
have the largest share in the total assets of the commercial banking system
(55%), followed by the Government-owned Philippine National Bank (PNB) (29%)
and foreign banks (16%). Agricultural lending represents only 12% of the
banks' total loan portfolio but accounts for about 65% of total institutional
credit for farm production and about 80% of all agricultural activities
including processing and marketing (Table 6). By activity, 30% of private
commercial bank credit to agriculture goes for production, 40Z for processing
and 20% for marketing. Over 30% of their lending for agriculture is usually
funded by CB. The expansion in their agricultural lending owes much to the
Government's agricultural credit quota policy (para. 2.07) which required all
banks to earmark at least 25% of incremental loanable funds for agriculture.
This policy has, however, been only partially effective because of a provision
which allowed the banks to meet the quota by investing in CB securities. As
much as 35% of loanable funds intended for agriculture were diverted to
securities.
2.11      More than 60% of private commercial banks' agricultural loans are
for commercial and export crops and agribusiness activities such as livestock,
8/   The World Bank, "Philippines: Agricultural Credit Sector Review," Report
No. 4117-PH, May 1983.
9/   Government corporations have acquired a majority interest in six
commercial banks, but a plan is now being prepared for the corporations
to divest themselves of these interests.



- 10 -
poultry and fisheries; ten banks 10/ account for 70% of total lending to
agriculture. Most active in agricultural lending are the two commodity
banks: the Republic Planters Bank (RPB) for sugar and the United Coconut
Planters Bank (UCPB) for coconut. Both RPB and UCPB, though registered as
private banks, have strong policy and management linkages with 3overnment and
exert an overriding influence over the two industries.
2.12      While the commercial banks' agricultural lending is predominantly
short-term, in practice they grant short-term loans that are rolled over.
They are unable to formally increase medium- and long-term lending for agri-
culture be:ause of: the limited availability of longer-term loanable funds;
insufficieL.t technical expertise to appraise agricultural projects; and the
banks' insistence on collateral because agricultural lending is a high risk
activity.
2.13      Table 9 shows the financial condition of the commercial banking
system up to June 30, 1984.  During 1983, the average gross and net margins to
total assets at 4.3% and 1%, respectively, indicated a satisfactory profit-
ability, but other financial parameters reflected that the system was under
serious liquidity pressure.  Commercial banks' past due loans increased from
13% in September 1983 to 21% in 1984, at P 34 billion out of a total loan
portfolio of P 160 billion (US$8 billion). Eleven commercial banks have past
dues of more than 20% of total outstanding loans. The recent increase in past
dues is attributed to the country's economic crisis.
Thrift Banks
2.14      Thrift banks comprise 8 savings and mortgage banks, 45 private
development banks, and 83 stock savings and loan associations. The 1980
banking reforms abolished the functional distinction among all banks including
the three types of thrift banks, which are now increasingly competing with
other banks for business, including deposit mobilization and lending in rural
areas. The savings and mortgage banks are however currently concentrated in
Metro Hanila and do Little lending for agriculture. The private development
banks and savings and loan associations have widely dispersed branch networks,
with about 360 out of a total of 500 offices outside Metro Manila, but provide
only 2% (P 1.2 billion) of total rural institutional credit for agriculture.
2.15      Savings and loan associations lend for real estate, as well as the
purchase of agricultural machinery, trucks and small-scale enterprises. Pri-
vate development banks lend mainly for sugar, coconut, livestock and fisheries
activities. The private development banks formerly received their longer-term
resources from DBP, but due to the financial problems of the latter, they now
have greater access to CB's rediscounting facilities.
10/ The top ten commercial banks are: RPB, UCPB, Allied Bank, Rizal
Commercial Banking Corporation, Bank of America, Traders Royal Bank,
China Bank, Far East Bank, Bank of the Philippine Islands and Citibank.



- 11 -
2.16      As of August 1984, past dues as a percentage of the total loan
portfolio were relatively small at 7.5X for savings and mortgage banks and 13%
for private development banks, but reached 23Z for savings and loan associa-
tions. Tables 10-12 show the consolidated financial condition of the thrift
banks.
Rural Banks
2.17      Since 1951, Government has actively encouraged establishment and
growth of the rural banking system which, at present, comprises 949 banks,
including 923 private family-owned banks and 26 cooperative rural banks set up
by farmer organizations. Laws which limited the operational jurisdiction of a
ruraL bank to a municipality and its subloans to smallholders were removed by
the 1980 banking reforms, allowing rural banks to branch out and undertake all
types of domestic banking operations. The rural banking system has a poten-
tial to provide a wide range of banking services to the rural sector because
of its predominantly private and generally capable management, wide geographi-
cal coverage, proximity to rural areas, and accessibility to small farmers and
entrepreneurs. Government has assisted rural banks in various ways includ-
ing: subscriptions to their equity; discounting at preferential interest
rates; access to special government funds; subloan guarantees; tax relief
measures and, recently, crop insurance linked with credit. CB is statutorily
responsible for overseeing rural banking operations.
2.18      Table 13 shows the consolidated financial condition of the rural
banking system. Borrowings from CB constitute about 47% of the rural banks'
total resources which fund the bulk of the supervised and nonsupervised
agricultural credit they extend. Although the rural banking system's total
resources nearly doubled in the past four years, in real terms, the system
grew by only 5.7% p.a. during 1979-83 (Table 3).
2.19      About 8oz of rural bank loans (P 4.6 billion) are extended to
agriculture. Although rural banks provide only about 17% of the total insti-
tutionaL credit for farm production (Table 6), because of their proximity to
rural areas, they provide as much as 50% of the institutional credit for rice
and other cereals, largely to smallholders.
2.20      Since 1975, the rural banking system has been continuously under
financial stress due to sizeable arrearages under government-sponsored super-
vised credit programs, particularly for Masagana-99, cattle fattening and
fisheries. The accumulated subloan arrearages under these and other programs
funded by CB and Government range between 30-35% of the system's aggregate
outstanding loans. Total past dues have been about 31% (P 1.4 billion) of
outstanding loans, but increased significantly during the recent economic
crisis to 52% (P 1.9 billion) of outstanding loans. Prior to the crisis,
delinquencies were due to a combination of factors including: natural calam-
ities such as droughts and typhoons; the low priority given by farmers to
repaying government-sponsored loans; poor selection of credit risks; over-
financing; and insufficient supervision. The arrearages have resulted in the
disqualification of over 600 rural banks from access to CB rediscounting
pending an improvement in their arrears ratio to conform with CB guidelines
and consequently also a large number of farmers from receiving new credit.



- 12 -
Currently, P 2.4 billion or 55Z of CB's outstanding loans to rural banks are
in arrears.
2.21      The rural banks have used various measures to improve their subloan
collections, including imposition of penalty charges on past dues, loan
rescheduling and restructuring, Legal actions, and write-offs. CB also oper-
ates rehabilitation schemes for rural banks affected by arrearages, but the
most common form of CB sanction against defaulting banks is the discontinua-
tion of access to CB rediscounting privileges if a bank's past due ratio
exceeds 25% of outstanding loans. These measures have had some impact on
safeguarding the viability of the rural banking system, but what is lacking is
a sound policy framework and political will to upgrade financial intermedia-
tion in the rural sector.
2.22      The profitability of individual rural banks varies widely in
relation to business volume, quality of assets and management efficiency. For
the system as a whole, the percentage of income to total assets declined from
1.7% in 1979 to 1% in 1983, while average income to paid-up capital fell from
20% to 11% (Table 13), which is below the current inflation rate.
Government Banks
2.23      The three government banks, DBP, PNB, and LBP, have unique struc-
tural, financial and operational problems. A task force appointed by the
Government is currently studying the future role and structure of government
financial intermediaries including PNB and DBP. Depending on CDvernment's
decision on task force recommendations, CB would take a lead role with Govern-
ment in implementing necessary rehabilitation, restructuring and institutional
development plans for PNB and DBP.
2.24      Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP).  DBP was organized to
lend primarily medium- and long-term investment credit and, over the years,
has developed a strong field organization (5 regional offices and 56 branches
and subbranches), lending policies and procedures, and supervision arrange-
ments. Although DBP's major lending activity has been in industry (85%), it
gives high priority to agriculture which accounts for 12% of its loan port-
folio and more than 60% of the number of subloans. DBP's agricultural lending
supported a wide range of production activities including cereals, commercial
and plantation crops, livestock and poultry, and inland and marine fisheries.
However, DBP is currently facing severe problems of liquidity and solvency
resulting from low subloan collections and a large accumulation of nonper-
forming assets.
2.25      Philippine National Bank (PNB).  As the largest commercial bank in
the Philippines with a network of over 200 domestic branches and about 29Z of
the total resources of the commercial banking system, PNB has been playing an
important role in financing government-sponsored agricultural credit programs.
PNB is also an important lender to the sugar industry. Since 1980, however,
PNB's overall agricultural lending, in real terms, has stagnated due to
liquidity and institutional problems. Its major problems in agricultural
lending include a high level of subloan arrearages, a negative margin on
supervised credit arrears, and excessive dependence on government extension



- 13 -
staff which led to poor credit appraisal, supervision and collection. PNB's
current problems, however, go beyond its agricultural lending. Overall, about
401 of PNB's total loan portfolio is reported to be nonperforming or affected
by defaults. A review of all major accounts is currently under way to iden-
tify those that can be rehabilitated, and those tlst are no longer viable and
can be foreclosed or written off. In agriculture, PNB is limiting new subloan
approvals to essential crop financing.
2.26      Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP).  LBP was established in 1963 to
finafice acquisition of landed estates and their redistribution to tenant
farmers through the Ministry of Agrarian Reform. In 1972, LBP's mandate and
authority were expanded to enable it to finance the Government's land reform
program and undertake commercial banking activities which generate revenues to
offset a portion of the public sector costs of agrarian reform. LBP's
corporate goals accord a high priority to both expansion of its commercial
banking operations and implementation of integrated credit and extension
programs to help increase farm productivity and incomes of land reform
beneficiaries. LBP has established a field level organization to undertake
these functions.
2.27      Between 1975 and 1982, LBP's total resources increased from P 2.1
billion to P 7.9 billion owing to increased capitalization and accumulated
profits, issue of bonds, and greater deposit mobilization. Although LBP is
heavily dependent on government resources, including deposits by government
departments which average over 80% of its total deposits, it is financially
stable because its operations are geared toward maintaining a highly liquid
position.
2.28      LBP's land reform receivables constitute 42% of its total loan
portfolio, the losses on which are offset by profits from commercial banking.
LBP's agricultural lending has been relatively small (P 0.7 billion) and is
only about 1Z of total institutional credit for agriculture.
2.29      LBP has been the implementing agency for the Bank-assisted Small
Farmer Development Project (Ln. 1646-PH). To address problems which arose
under that project, LBP has recently drawn up an instir'ztional development
plan, including implementation of a subloan collection plan, review of lending
strategies, improvements in its management information system, and reorgan-
ization of its agrarian sector field organization. A proposal to review land
reform policies and programs is also under consideration.
D. Problems in Agricultural Credit
2.30      In 1982, the Bank undertook a review of the Philippine agricultural
credit sector in view of the high arrearages incurred under Bank-assisted
credit projects and Government-financed agricultural cy7dit programs, and the
weak financial condition of many participating banks.-    A major concern was
111 World Bank, "Agricultural Credit Sector Review," Report No. 4117-PH,
May 12, 1983.



- 14 -
to identify the causes which make agricultural financial intermediaries exces-
sively reliant on government resources and subsidies for continued agricul-
tural lending. The review focused on three major problems: the limited
supply of mediumr and long-term agricultural credit, institutional weaknesses,
and deficiencies in government policies for agricultural credit. Since that
review, another more immediate problem has arisen in the severe shortage of
seasonal production credit which, if it persists, will adversely affect pro-
duction levels of many commodities and partially undermine the effectiveness
of the Philippines' ongoing efforts toward economic recovery.
2.31      Availability of Seasonal Production Credit.  Until recently, the
supply of seasonal production credit has not been a major constraint because
noninstitutional sources provided about 70X of the short-term credit received
by rural producers. However, since mid-1983 the liquidity of informal lenders
has significantly declined due mainly to high inflation, which has reduced the
real value of private savings, and the sharply decreased liquidity of the
banking system which has limited the informal lenders' access to institutional
funds. The liquidity problem arose in the wake of the economic crisis due to
a massive withdrawal or diversion of deposits caused by shaken public
confidence in the banking system; reduced availability of CB funds; and
ineligibility of retail banks for CB rediscounting facilities due to their
high level of subloan defaults. The decline in seasonal production loans by
banks between 1980 and 1983 was about 17% in real terms and was shared by
different commodity groups as shown in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: SEASONAL PRODUCTION LOANS GRANTED FOR AGRICULTURE, 1980-83
(P bill.on at 1978 prices) /a
Z increase      X increase
(decrease)       (decrease)
Commodity       1980   1981   1982   1983   1983 over 1980  1983 over 1982
Rice and other cereal  1.5    1.7    1.6    1.4           (6)             (13)
Sugar                  6.3    5.2    6.7    5.3          (16)             (20)
Coconut                 1.6    2.3    1.6    1.4         (12)             (12)
Livestock, poultry,
fisheries            3.2    4.1    4.5    4.3           34               (4)
Others                  2.9    3.6    1.7    0.4         (86)             (76)
Total              15.5   16.9   16.1   12.8         (17)             (20)
/a   Current prices deflated by producer price index for agricultural products
(1978 = 100).
2.32      During 1984, continuing bank liquidity problems further reduced the
supply of production credit by an estimated 60% in real terms, as reflected by
CB's reduced rediscounting during CYB3 and the first half of 1984 (Table 14).



- 15 -
2.33      Availability of Medium- and Long-term Credit.  The shortage of
medium- and long-term institutional credit has been a continuing constraint to
agricultural development in the Philippines due to: past interest rate
policies which have not been conducive to mobilizing deposits for use in
longer-term lending; lack of a permanent "lender-of-last-resort" facility from
CB to support term transformation of predominantly shorter-term resources and
the liquidity needs of banking institutions; a relatively undeveloped bond
market; and lack of institution building for development financing. The
effects of the 1980 banking reforms which addressed some of these questions
were limited (para. 2.04). In addition, the financial problems of DBP, which
had formerly been a major source of medium- and long-term credit, aggravated
the unavailability of term credit (para. 2.24).
2.34      Institutional Weaknesses.  Structural problems of the banking system
and financial weaknesses of individual institutions currently constrain the
flow of formal credit to agriculture, limit the range of services offered, and
lead to increased transaction costs. The Philippines' banking system remains
largely urban-oriented despite considerable expansion of the rural banking
network during the 1970s. Over 30% of the banking offices are located in
Metro Manila, and about 12% are in regional centers. The density of lyyal
banks is especially low in nine of the twelve administrative regions,-
partly because of relatively undeveloped infrastructure and, in some regions,
peace and order problems which have limited the exploitation of potential
economic opportunities, including financial intermediation. Private rural
banks which have the widest geographical network outside Metro Manila (45% of
all rural banking offices) have, over a period, suffered from subloan
arrearages, low capitalization, and limited deposit mobilization, which slowed
the growth of rural banking services. Continuing financial problems of
government institutions have exacerbated the situation. Moreover, CB adminis-
tration of branch licensing regulations lacked both a sectoral perspective and
a realistic assessment of the existing bank offices' potential to expand the
supply of banking services, which prevented rural financial market development
and active competition among banks. Many banks also relied excessively on
Government's rather weak extension service for both subloan appraisal and
coLlection, rather than building up their own in-house capabilities to
undertake these tasks.
2.35      Government Policies.  The overall thrust of government policies in
agricultural credit, particularly the provision of low-cost resources at
regulated spreads, has not been conducive to viable agricultural lending by
rural institutions. While credit-cum-extension programs with subsidized
interest rates have generally achieved their production objectives, they
placed heavy demands on the financial and managerial capabilities of partic-
ipating banks which were often weakened and, as a result, increasingly reluc-
tant to participate in government-sponsored programs. The credit programs
also failed to reach the majority of small farmers on a continuing basis since
many farmers became ineligible for new credit due to nonpayment of past
loans. The ad hoc nature of these programs as well as the rules and proced-
12/ Cagayan, Bicol, the three Visayas and four Mindanao regions.



- 16 -
ures governing them tended to undermine the financial discipline of retail
banks through often relaxed subloan collection criteria, which allowed the
banks to carry high arrearages and eventually caused them to be disqualified
from new CB financing. Interest spreads available to retail banks on CB funds
generally proved insufficient to cover the growing default costs, and
eventually the banks' subloan arrearages and defaults to CB disqualified them
from further CB financing. All this adversely affected their liquidity.
E. Policy and Institutional Reforms
2.36      In response to these problems and the related recommendations of the
Agricultural Credit Sector Review, Government and CB have agreed to implement
a package of policy and institutional reforms generaLly aimed at the elimina-
tion of regulated interest rates for agriculture; phasing out of government
subsidies on agricuLtural credit; expansion of banking services in rural
areas; initial measures to address the problem of subloan arrearages; and
improved arrangements for a continuing review of agricultural policies,
programs and institutions. More important aspects of the proposed policy and
institutional reforms are discussed below and details are given in Annex 1.
2.37      Deregulation of Interest Rates.  In the past, easy access to CB's
low-cost rediscounting facility has discouraged retail banks from mobilizing
deposits, and caused CB to carry heavy arrearages in its low-cost lending. At
present, although interest rates in general are freely determined by banks,
the CB rediscounted credit still carries prescribed spreads on subloans. The
regulated spreads tend to increase interest rates of banks which can afford to
lend at lower rates while at the same time restricting agricultural lending of
those banks which find the spreads insufficient to cover their transaction
costs and allow for a reasonable profit on financial intermediation. Under
the proposed project, CB will, therefore, introduce market-oriented interest
rates on its loans to participating banks, without any regulation of spreads
to be retained by the latter (para. 4.10). In addition, CB will ensure that
interest rates on its loans are not lower than the weighted average cost of
the banking system's savings and time deposits, including the cost of mobiliz-
ing such deposits. These reforms are expected to stimulate greater deposit
mobilization in the banking system, more efficient financial intermediation,
increased inter-bank competition, a much broader access to credit, and
increased lending for agriculture at reasonable interest rates (Annex 1,
para. 3).
2.38      Phasing-out of Government Subsidies.  Government-sponsored
agricultural credit programs carry interest rate subsidies ranging from 2.5%
to almost 30%, depending on the source of funds. The interest subsidy on CB's
Special Time Deposits pLaced with retail banks to fund these programs is also
high, at 14.5% to 18.5%. In addition, P 700 million from the government
budget are held by CB under special financing programs for, among others,
disbursement at low interest rates (Annex 1, para. 7). CB and Government have
decided to phase out subsidies on credit under a program which will focus on
the following three categories: (a) credit funded from CB's own resources;
(b) credit funded from Government and other resources channeled through CB;
and (c) credit funded and administered by the Government outside the banking
system. With regard to the first category, which accounts for over 90Z of



- 17 -
total institutional credit disbursed annually, CB has extended an assurance
that all of its new lending will be at market-oriented rates consistent with
the principles agreed with the Bank (para. 4.10). As for the second and third
categories, the Government has agreed during negotiations that it would first
undertake a review of all existing programs and formulate criteria,
satisfactory to the Bank, to determine which of the credit programs may
justify a subsidy. This review will be completed by December 31, 1985.
Subsidies on special government financing programs included in category (b)
(see Annex 1, Table 2) which do not meet the criteria for exceptions will be
phased out by December 31, 1986. For the remaining programs under the second
category, and those in the third, elimination of subsidies would be completed
in accordance with a program and timetable to be submitted for the Bank's
concurrence by March 31, 1986. Government programs which do not meet the
established criteria would be at market-oriented interest rates. During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from CB and the Covernment that
subsidies on agricultural credit would be phased out in accordance with the
agreed timetable, and no new program with an interest rate or capital subsidy
would be introduced for funding with CB's own resources.
2.39      Government Assistance to Low Income Croups with Inadequate Access to
Institutional Credit. WhiLe CB and Government have agreed to phase out sub-
sidies on agricultural credit, there may be situations when the Covernment
would need to extend financial assistance to less privileged, low income
groups which currently do not have adequate access to institutionaL credit.
Covernment assistance under such programs should be explicitly budgeted and
accounted for, and extended to beneficiaries identified on the basis of well-
defined poverty norms and equity considerations. A study will therefore be
carried out to provide guidelines to identify target groups and define ways of
assisting such groups directly by means other than credit subsidies. A task
force, led by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and com-
prising representatives of CB, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF), the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) and academia, will complete this study
by March 31, 1986, and by September 30, 1986 Government will complete its review
of the recommendations of the task force in consultation with the Bank.
2.40      Strategies for Expansion of Banking Services in Rural Areas.  The
growth in rural banking services is now constrained by the financial problems
of rural and government banks which are unable to undertake any significant
structural expansion because of low profitability. Many rural banks have
either closed or significantly restricted their operations. Past branch
licensing policies have also not been helpful in promoting a healthy growth of
the rural financial market. To begin to address this problem, a study will be
undertaken to review: the adequacy of banking services available in rural
areas; constraints to future growth of such services; options available for
consolidation, rehabilitation and expansion of the rural banking system; and
the role of commercial and government banks in expanding rural services.
Indicative terms of reference are provided in Annex 1, para. 10. The study
will be completed by March 31, 1986. CB will present the findings of the
review to its Monetary Board together with a plan for necessary institutional
and financial reforms by June 30, 1986 and, thereafter, take effective
measures to implement the plan.



- 18 -
2.41      Rediscounting, Arrearages, and Retail Bank Rehabilitation.  CB
recognizes the need to develop systems, procedures and policies to permit a
continuing review of financial sector institutions, and proposes to evaluate
the content and performance of its policies on subloan rediscounting and the
restructuring and rehabilitation needs of retail lending banks affected by
arrearages (Annez 1, paras. 11-16). The objectives of the study are to
rationalize CB's rediscounting policies so that they promote greater deposit
mobilization and agricultural lending by rural-based banks; to reformulate
schemes for subloan restructuring; and to prepare realistic programs for
subloan collections and write offs of uncollectables.  Indicative terms of
reference are given in Annex 1, para. 16. The review will be carried out by
an in-house task force, in collaboration with trade associations of commer-
cial, thrift and rural banks. It will be completed by March 31, 1986, and IB
will present the findings of this review to the Monetary Board by June 30,
1986 and immediately thereafter, initiate necessary remedial measures.
2.42      Crop/Subloan Insurance.  Lenders for agricultural production and
investment in the Philippines are faced with enormous risks because many areas
of the country are typ.;oon prone; on average, 19 typhoons affect the country
annually. Government has operated a loan guarantee scheme to safeguard the
liquidity of lending institutions faced with subloan defaults caused by
natural calamities. However, this scheme has not worked efficiently and is
being phased out gradually in favor of crop insurance which presently covers
only rice and corn. Extension of insurance to other crops or activities is
constrained by several factors including the lack of statistics on which to
base actuarial studies and premium rates and the serious cost implications for
Covernment. In general, government relief schemes tend to be ad hoc in
nature, without any assistance to institutional lenders affected by subloan
defaults attributed to natural calamities. If agricultural lending is to be
encouraged, it is important that Government's relief programs for those
affected by natural calamities include an arrangement whereby government
assistance is tied, as far as feasible, to the affected persons' existing
obligations to banks and their future credit needs. This would help safeguard
the viability of the credit institutions and ensure continued financial
assistance to the affected persons. Covernment and CB will thus carry out a
study to explore possible ways of providing liquidity support to affected
institutions, and of expanding insurance coverage for typhoon-related damage,
including a legal, organizational and financial framework to implement the
recommendations. The study will be completed by December 31, 1986 by an
internationally recruited consultant with support from the Philippine Crop
Insurance Corporation and an interagency task force to be established in CB.
2.43      Technical Cuidelines for Project Lending.  To improve subproject
appraisal by retail banks, CB intends to prepare guidelines for appraising the
technical aspects of agricultural and agroprocessing investments. CB will
also update its Policy Manual for term lending to reflect the policy changes
being introduced. The technical guidelines for project lending and the
revised Manual will be prepared by December 31, 1985.
2.44      ALF Policy Advisory Group.  CB has established in its Covernor's
Office an ALF Policy Advisory Croup (ALFPAC) to undertake a continuing review
of agricultural credit policies, programs and institutions in oreer to upgrade



- 19 -
their contribution to and effectiveness in agricultural development, and to
reflect the concerns and interests of the concerned government agencies, lend-
ing banks, and trade organizations. Establishment of the ALFPAG addresses a
major institutional gap in the Philippines' credit sym/m. In the past, the
Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit (PCAC) _   a ministerial level
body, was expected to review broader issues in agricultural credit, but its
operational arm, the Technical Board for Agricultural Credit (TBAC), had
neither a legal framework nor organization to undertake a sectoral as3essment
of credit and resource mobilization arrangements, and to provide effective
monitoring for policy formulation and its implementation. The ALFPAG is
expected to play this role.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
3.01      The proposed project has been designed in the light of experience
gained under earlier projects and the findings of the Bank's "Agricultural
Credit Sector Review" (1982) which concluded that various policy and institu-
tional reforms should be carried out and that Government should establish a
mechanism to provide financial and other support for banks lending for agri-
culture and to coordinate their activities. Government accepted these
recommendations and decided that an Agricultural Loan Fund (ALF) should be
established within CB (para. 2.09). The proposed project was prepared with
the objectives of making ALF operational and concurrently introducing policy
and institutional reforms essential for viable financial intermediation in the
rural sector. CB prepared the project in collaboration with government
agencies and the trade organizations of commercial, thrift and rural banks,
and with the assistance of World Bank staff.
B. Project Objectives
3.02      The project's main objectives are to:  (a) help foster economic
recovery through provision of seasonal and investment credit to the agricul-
turaL sector; (b) help establish an appropriate institutional and policy
framework and systems to support the development of a financially snd rural
credit system; and (c) increase the capacity of rural credit instituticns to
mobilize rural savings and improve the efficiency of their farm credit
operations through interest rate reforms, reforms in CB's rediscounting
policies, and strategies for expansion of banking services in rural areas.
131 PCAC members comprise he following: Governor of the Central Bank
(Chairman); Minister of Agriculture (Vice-Chairman); Director-General of
the National Eccnomic and Development Authority; Minister of Local
Government and Community Development; Minister of Natural Resources;
Minister of Agrarian Reform; President of the Philippine National Bank;
Chairman of the Development Bank of the Philippines, and President of the
Land Bank of the Philippines.



- 20 -
3.03      To achieve these objectives, the project would provide funds over a
four year period for:
(a)  seasonal and mediumr and long-term credit for the agricultural
sector;
(b)  studies in support of policy and institutional reforms and
preparation of a future project; and
(c) training of project-related staff and technical assistance to CB.
3.04      The Bank's involvement in the project is justified in view of the
need to shift resources to agricultural activities in line with Government
priorities. This would be done by improving financial intermediation channels
to the rural economy and by making credit resources available for agricultural
investment and other activities. Although the demand for investment funds in
the economy in general is depressed, in agriculture such demand continues to
be strong. Therefore, this project and the institutional and policy reforms
supported by it are expected to play a major role in the economic recovery of
the country. The Sank's role in alleviating the supply constraint on pro-
duction and investment credit is thus both critical and timely. Bank assis-
tance is also justified by the project's support for the policy measures cited
in paras. 2.36-2.44 which will complement reforms initiated under the ongoing
Agricultural Inputs/Sector Project (Ln. 2469-PH) (para. 1.10).
C. Detailed Features
Credit Component
3.05      The project-assisted lending program will be determined by market
forces, and there will be neither an allocation of funds by crop or type of
investment nor any targeted borrowers. CB and the retail lending banks -juld
have a continuing dialogue on issues concerning project-assisted lending oper-
ations and strategies; monitoring of subloan approvals; underlying demand
forces including cost-price relationships, rates of return, and regional
dispersal of investments; and institutional capabilities of retail banks to
appraise and supervise the loan portfolio.
3.06      Annex 2 gives the estimated demand for project funds and the types
of investments to be funded under the project, based on CB's assessment. This
is based generally on the assumption that credit operations, which have been
seriously interrupted by economic difficulties since 1980-81, would resume a
growth path under an appropriate policy framework, although neither the credit
volume nor its timing can be accurately predicted. Demand for incremental CB
funds for seasonal production credit, to be disbursed during FY1986-87, is
estimated at P 1,300 millio- (US$65 million). This is in line with the
country's need for additi..AaL resources in the agricultural sector to suppor:.
economic recovery and the reduced supply of both institutional and
noninstitutional short-term credit.
3.07      Demand for medium- and long-term credit, which was very low during
CY1984 due to the difficult economic environment, is expected to increase as



- 21 -
the effects of the orgoing economic stabilization program and the new price
and exchange rate policies generate a favorable climate for new investments
(para. 1.03). Given that medium- and long-term lending under past Bank-
assisted projects averaged US$22 million equivalent p.a. during 1979-84,
demand for longer-term funds under the proposed project for all types of
credit is projected to be about US$20 million equivalent p.a., or US$80
million equivalent during FY86-89. Although DBP, which was a major lender
under past projects, may not be a major participant under the proposed project
because of its financial problems, commercial banks which formerly lacked
access to CB's medium- and long-term rediscounting windows for agricultural
loans have been included in the project. The project's market-oriented
Lending terms are also expected to attract substantial bank participation.
Seasonal Production Credit
3.08      Project-funded short-term credit is expected to finance crop and
noncrop production including ricc, sugar, corn, cotton, vegetables, fruits,
poultry, fish and livestock. The financing of seasonal production credit is
essential since its considerable decline from over P 10 billion p.a. in
1981/82 to just about P 4 billion p.a. in 1983/84 has adversely affected the
production levels of many commodities and undermined the effectiveness of the
ongoing economic recovery program. The beneficiaries of credit extended by
rural banks will mainly include small- and medium-size farmers and entrepre-
neurs, while other banks would lend mainly to medium- and large-size
borrowers. The Bank loan would fund only the incremental amount of seasonal
production credit disbursed by CB to retail banks during FY86 and FY87 with
reference to a benchmark to be agreed upon by CB and the Bank. The benchmark
will take into account the contractionary trend of the economy and constraints
of the IMF stabilization program. The funds initially provided by the Bank
for short-term credit would be subsequently recycled through the ALF to
medium- and long-term subloans, as increased domestic resources become
available for short-term lending.
3.09      The conventional distinction between supervised and nonsupervised
credit (para. 2.07) would not be relevant to the project since responsibility
for lending decisions will rest with participating banks whether or not they
use authorized government technicians in subloan appraisal, as is mandatory
under supervised credit. About 90% of the production credit funded under the
project is expected to be collateralized.
Medium- and Long-term Credit
3.10      The project would fund medium- and long-term loans channeled through
the banking system for a broad spectrum of agricultural investments in
poultry, livestock and fisheries development, plantation crops, agroprocessing
and post-harvest facilities, and selective farm mechanization. Any viable
subproject conforming to techno-economic feasibility criteria will be eligible
for financing regardless of size. However, based on past experience, it is
expected that rural banks would lend mostly for smaller projects since no
single subloan of a rural bank can exceed 15% of its equity which is usually
small (F 1-15 million). Subprojects involving subloans of P 10 million
(US$500,000) or above would require CB's prior concurrence to ensure that



- 22 -
these have been subjected to adequate appraisal. CB would report such
subloans to the Bank soon after their approval. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that Bank approval would be required for all subloans
above P 20 million (US$l million).
3.11      Poultry, Livestock and Fisheries Development.  The project is
expected to finance a broad range of enterprises in egg, broiler, pig, beef
cattle and fishery production. Poultry production is 1aidly shifting into the
hands of larger commercial producers and integrators -   because of economies
of scale both in terms of lower feed costs and the efficiency of feed conver-
sion, which smaller enterprises cannot achieve. Profit margins are typically
small and volatile. Because of the highly competitive character of the
poultry industry, the project would primarily fund expansion of established
egg or broiler operations, and only those new entrepreneurs capable of estab-
lishing an economically viable operation and having the required experience in
poultry management.
3.12      The project is expected to fund investments in swine production,
including breeding stock, housing units, and equipment for 20- to 200-sow
operations, as well as larger units serving both domestic and export
markets. With the recent deregulation of the price of pork and of corn, the
basic ingredient in swine feed, and removal of a ban on hog exports, Govern-
ment has increased the viability of such investments.
3.13      The project is also expected to support ranching, feed lot opera-
tions and cattle fattening undertaken directly by farmers, or by integrators
through contractual arrangements with groups of farmers. In support of cattle
development, Government proposes to release additional grazing lands for leas-
ing. The dairy sector, currently undeveloped and requiring major imports,
would be eligible for project funding but major investments would be contin-
gent on Government's proposing a strategy for the sector's future development,
including technical assistance to dairy producers.
3.14      To support fisheries, the project would fund fishponds (5 to 50 ha)
in brackish water areas, including rehabilitation and expansion of existing
units, fish pens, fishing boats, and fish processing.
3.15      Plantation  Crops.  Project credit is expected to fund plantation
crop development, including rubber, banana, mango and abaca (Manila heomp)
intended for export, as well as ipil-ipil and selected industrial tree planta-
tions. Rubber development requires investments in rehabilitation and expan-
sion, and improved processing. Banana exports have increased in recent years
and an area expansion of over 70,000 ha is needed to meet the growing export
demand. Mango production in the Philippines has been helped by the introduc-
tion of modern flower induction technology, and a number of processed mango
products have been developed. Ipil-ipil is grown extensively, primarily for
14/ A vertically integrated operation includes production of day old chicks,
importation and mixing of feeds, contracting with outgrowers and
organization of sales.



- 23 -
firewood production with the leaves used as a feed supplement. Industrial use
of firewood is also expanding as a result of the high cost of imported fuel.
3.16      Agroprocessing and Post-Harvest Faciliti-.s.  Agroprocessing invest-
ments which form an integral part of agricultural production activities would
generally qualify for project credit. Agro-industrial investments with no
production component would nonmally be funded by the Bank-assisted Small and
Medium Industries Development Project III (Ln. 2169-PH). Guidelines for coor-
dination between the two projects have been agreed with CB.
3.17      Grain processing investments are likely to include new rice mills
and expansion or rehabilitation of existing rice and corn mills, mainly to
augment and mode -nize post-harvest facilities. There is currently an over-
capacity in rice milling in some regions, while other regions need mills. The
proposed liberalization of rice trading, including the opening of rice exports
to private trade, is expected to gradually correct this situation and channel
new investments to financially and economically sound enterprises. The proj-
ect is also expected to fund new capacities in feed mills in outlying areas to
save on transport costs for both raw materials and end-products. Past expan-
sion of the feed milling industry has mainly taken place in Manila where there
is now overcapacity. The project is also expected to support post-harvest
facilities for storage, transport and marketing.
3.18      Farm Mechanization.  The project is expected to selectively fund
farm mechanization, including power tillers, rice threshers, corn shellers and
tractors. Tractors are not cost-effective on rice and corn lands but can be a
viable investment for highly productive sugarcane farms. In the past, factor
price distortions including low-cost credit have encouraged excessive invest-
ments in farm mechanization. However, more efficient investment in farm
mechanization is now expected due to recent deregulation of the prices of many
commodities and of the peso exchange rate; liberalization of tariffs and
exchange controls; and proposed deregulation of interest rates on institu-
tional credit for agriculture. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
that by December 31, 1985, CB, in consultation with the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA), the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) and
the Bank, wilL establish minimum technical norms to be applied in appraisal
and sanction of farm mechanization investments, and that CB would use the
project's inter-agency consultative arrangements to review, on a continuing
basis, both the implementation and impact of the farm mechanization program
supported by the project.
Policy Studies
3.19      The project would fund five studies in support of Government's new
policy package for agricultural credit. The studies would: (a) define
Government's approach to and policies toward assisting low income groups with
inadequate access to institutionaL credit (para. 2.39); (b) evolve strategies
for expansion of banking services in rural areas (para. 2.40); (c) review CB
policies on subloan rediscounting and retail bank arrearages and rehabilita-
tion (para. 2.41); (d) explore ways to provide liquidity support to banks with
loan portfolios affected by natural disasters and of expanding insurance cover
for risks associated with these disasters (para. 2.42); and (e) prepare



- 24 -
technical guidelines for project lending and update CB's term lending Policy
Manual (para. 2.43). The project also includes a nominal amount (US$20,000)
to begin preparation of a future credit project for the sector. Terms of
reference for the reviews of banking services in rural areas and of CB's
rediscounting policies and the arrearages problem (Annex 1) were agreed at
negotiations. The design and approach of studies on government assistance to
Low-income groups and crop/subloan insurance were also agreed at the
negotiations, and the terms of reference will be finalized by July 31, 1985.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that CB would complete the
project-related studies within the agreed time frame, on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and based on the findings of those studies, would
thereafter initiate remedial measures in consultation with the Bank.
Staff Training and Technical Assistance
3.20      The project would fund training to address skill-gaps of project-
related staff in CB and retail banks as identified by an ongoing survey being
conducted by the Central Bank Institute (CBI). The project would fund a
teachers' training program to increase and upgrade the faculty available to
CBI to conduct the project-related training courses. Other training programs
would include: familiarization briefings for senior staff; subloan appraisal,
management and supervision courses; and accounting courses for middle-level
and operational staff. Details of training objectives and activities are
given in Annex 3. The project would also fund, as necessary, hiring by CB of
appropriate expertise from within or outside the country to strengthen the
capability of the proposed ALF Unit (para. 4.03) and the Technical Unit of the
ALFPAG (para. 4.04).
D. Project Cost and Financing
3.21      The total project cost is estimated at US$183 million equivalent,
including US$63.5 million equivalent or about 35% in foreign exchange and
US$16.6 million equivalent in related taxes and duties (Table 3.1). The share
of foreign exchange in the total project cost is based on the assumptions
underlying the indicative lending program and would vary depending on the
eventual composition of the lending program in response to market forces.
Estimates are based on December 1984 prices and do not include physical and
price contingencies as this is a credit project.



- 25 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUXXARY
Foreign   Z of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total as Z of   total
-(peso million)---  --(US$ million)--    total   base cost
A. Credit
Seasonal Production
Credit                   1,001     667   1,668    50.0    33.4    83.4    40         45.6
Medium- and Long-
Term Credit              1,383      597   1,980    69.2    29.9    99.1    30        54.1
Subtotal Credit
Component             2,384   1,264   3,648   119.2    63.3   182.5    35         99.7
B.  Policy Studies                 5        1       6      0.2     0.1     0.3    33        0.2
C. Project Related TraininR
and Technical Assistance    3         1       4     0.1      0.1     0.2    50        0.1
Total Project Cost /a          2,392   1,266   3,658   119.5    63.5   183.0    35        100.0
/a   Includes taxes and duties of US$16.6 million equivalent.
3.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would contribute about 60Z
of total project costs, excluding taxes, or about 55Z of total grosm costs.
The Bank loan would finance 100% of the foreign exchange requirement plus 37Z
of local colts which is justified because of the Philippines' current diffi-
cult economic situation and shortage of counterpart funds. The remaining
project cost would be funded by CB from resources to be raised in the bond
market (8Z), participating banks up to an average of 20%, and subborrowers
(18Z) (Table 3.2). As the participating banks' and subborrowers' contribu-
tions would vary by subproject, subject to a minimum of 10X each, CB has
agreed to fill any gap in project financing from resources to be raised in the
bond market (para. 6.02(j)). Retroactive finance up to US$15 million is
recoumended for eligible production credit subloans approved by the ALF after
April 30, 1985 to allow the loan to meet the needs of the 1985 planting season
which begins in Kay.



- 26 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(USs million)
Participating
Category                 Subborrowers        Banks        CB    IBRD      Total
A. Production credit         15.0           16.7           6.2   45.5      83.4
B. Medium- and
long-term credit        17.8           19.8          7.5   54.0       99.1
C. Studies, Training and
Technical Assistance      -              -            -      0.5       0.5
Total                 32.8          36.5          13.7  100.0      183.0
3.23      The Bank loan to CB will be guaranteed by the Government of the
Philippines. Under the pool-based variable lending rate system, the Bank's
interest rate would be subject to a semi-annual change, which if it occurs
would be reflected in CB's onlending rate to participating banks. The
interest rate on CB loans to participating banks would be market-oriented.
The interest rates charged by participating banks would also be market-
oriented, based on CB's interest rate, the weighted. average cost of funds
deployed in project lending, and intermediation costs (para. 4.10).
3.24      The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is
currently considering a proposal from its Philippine Mission to allocate
approximately US$20 million in parallel with the Bank loan during its FY 1985
(ending September 30, 1985). The USAID support would provide additional
resources for the agricultural sector during the period of economic recovery.
E. Procurement
3.25      Machinery and Equipoent.  International competitive bidding (ICB)
would not be feasible under the project because the size of individual invest-
ments would be too small and bulking of contracts is not practicable because
of their expected diversity and wide dispersal both in location and time.
Machinery and equipment for on-farm development and farm support facilities
would be acquired through ordinary commercial channels in which both Local and
foreign firms operating in the Philippines would be eligible to participate.
All suppliers are required to be accredited by CB's Agricultural Kachinery
Manufacturers/Distributors Accreditation Committee (AMDAC). CB ensures that
only those suppliers are accredited who have service shops and mechanics at



- 27 -
strategic locations to repair and replenish machinery items.-51 Under the
project, CB would continue AMDAC which will be reconstituted to include repre-
sentatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) and its Agricultural
Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center (AMTEC), CB, and representatives of
the Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers and Dealers Association (AMMDA). CB
would also set up a mechanism-for periodic consultations between AMDAC and
representatives of the banking industry an accreditation of machinery
suppliers. CB and MAF would annually issue, on behalf of AMDAC, a notice in
major international papers indicating the possible composition of Philippine
machinery imports for the following twelve month period, and inviting manufac-
turers and dealers not already accredited to seek accreditation with AMDAC.
The notice would include specific criteria for accreditation. AMDAC will
update the list of accredited dealers annually on the basis of applications
received in response to the notice in major international papers or in the
normal course of events. Ac negotiations, an assurence was obtained that by
September 30, 1985, CB and MAF would compLete reconstitution of AMDAC and
issue a notice indicating the probable composition of the Philippines'
machinery imports during the coming year and inviting manufacturers and
dealers to seek accreditation with AMDAC.
3.26      Civil Works.  The majority of civil works under the project would
also be relatively small and widely dispersed and therefore unsuited to ICB or
local competitive bidding (LCB). Sufficient private contractors are available
for construction of civil works on a competitive basis through normal commer-
cial channels. The project would, therefore, require participating banks to
ensure that civil works costing less than P 200,000 (US$10,000) would be
carried out or contracted in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; individual contracts costing more than P 200,000 and up to P 5 million
(US$250,000) would be carried out in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank after solicitation of price quotations from at least three sup-
pliers. The requirement of obtaining price quotations would, however, be
waived for subprojects in remote areas where supplier representation is insuf-
ficient. Larger contracts costing more than P 5 million would be awarded on
the basis of LCB, in which foreign firms operating in the Philippines would be
allowed to bid. LCB would be in accordance with standard bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Civil works involving LCB are expected to amount to
P 200 million (US$10 million). CB would review the compliance of partici-
pating banks with procurement procedures during its periodic supervision of
project-assisted subloans, as would the Bank during project supervision.
15/ AMDAC was established by CB under the Bank-assisted Fourth Rural Credit
Project (Ln. 1399-PH) to maintain a fair and uniform price of machinery
and equipment for all borrowers availing themselves of subloans under CB-
assisted programs and to ensure that dealers/manufacturers are capable of
providing sufficient after-sale services. As of September 1984, as many
as 55 importing firms and 80 local manufacturers of diverse items
including tractors, power tillers, threshers, irrigation pumps, and rice
mills, had been accredited by AMDAC.



- 28 -
3.27      Consultants.  Consultants would be appointed in accordance with the
Banks' guidelines and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. About
150 staff-days of internationally recruited consultants and 1,000 days of
local consultants are required to implement project studies and provide staff
training and technical assistance.
F. Disbursements
3.28      The Government and CB have requested that, in view of the country's
financial constraints, the Bank should reimburse 100% of the subloans
disbursed by rzrticipating banks for seasonal production credit up to a total
of US$30 million, within the overall reimbursement of 67% of subloan amounts
disbursed during the project period. In the current circumstances, this is
considered justifiable. Disbursement of the loan proceeds would accordingly
cover:
(a) for seasonaL production credit, the first US$30 million of the Bank
loan at 100% of the subloans disbursed by participating banks and
reimbursed by CB and the balance at 46% of disbursed subloans, so
that overall disbursement during the project period would not exceed
67% of the total;
(b) for medium- and long-term credit, 67% of subloans disbursed by
participating banks and reimbursed by CB; and
(c) 100% of the cost (net of taxes) of local and expatriate consultants,
and of the cost (net of taxes) incurred by CB on project-related
studies and training.
3.29      CB would establish a Special Account in accordance with Bank
guidelines to facilitate rapid disbursement of the Bank loan. Up to US$10
million would be released by the Bank to the Special Account, representing
about 25% of the expected disbursements of the first project year. Bank
disbursements to the Special Account would begin immediately after loan
effectiveness. Disbursements from the Special Account would be fully
accounted for by subloan disbursements eligible for Bank funding under the
project's terms and conditions (Annex 5).
3.30      Becaase the project would fund a large number of subprojects,
disbursement for subloans would be made against certified statements of
subloans disbursed, with supporting documentation to be retained by CB. CB
would make subloan reimbursement to eligible banks upon presentation of a set
of standard documents. CB disbursements to participating banks will be in the
form of Special Time Deposits (STDs). Documentation at participating banks
would be verified by CS during its usual audit of their accounts.
Disbursements for consultancies, project-related studies and training would be
made against normal documentation prescribed by the Bank.
3.31      A schedule of estimated disbursements under the project and a dis-
bursement profile of previcus Bank-assisted agricultural projects in the
Philippines are presented in Table 15. Project disbursements under seasonal
production credit (which was not funded by previous projects) are expected to



- 29 -
proceed rapidly in view of the country's critical need for such resources.
The disbursement rate under the project for medium- and long-term credit is
assumed to be US$12 million per year, which is conservative by comparison with
the US$18 million average annual disbursement under all Bank-assisted agricul-
tural credit projects during 1979-84 (Annex 2, para. 3). The project would be
completed by December 31, 1989, and Loan Closing is expected by December 31,
1990.
C. Accounts and Audit
3.32      CB and retail banks would maintain separate accounts for project
funds. CB's project-related accounts, along with its other operations, would
be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank. Normally, CB's accounts are
audited by the Government's Commission on Audit (COA). The accounts of
commercial, thrift and rural banks are audited by licensed external auditors
authorized by their respective boards of directors. Small rural banks are in
some situations exempted by CB from an external audit, in which case CB exam-
iners audit the concerned banks. The accounts of government banks (DBP, PNB
and LBP) are audited by the COA. In addition, CB subjects all banks to an
annual operations and management audit by qualified personnel or CB staff,
save for exceptions granted by CB's Governor or the Monetary Board. All banks
are inspected at least once every two years by CB staff to assess their
overall financial viability and safety of deposit funds. These arrangements
are satisfactory.
3.33      CB would send to the Bank, within six months of the close of each
fiscal year, audited project accounts including statements of expenditure and
the Special Account, together with the balance sheet and profit and loss
account and auditor's opinion on certificates of expenditure. CB would also
require participating banks, as necessary, to provide an auditor's opinion on
whether subloans are in agreement with the terms and conditions of project
lending. In addition, CB staff wiLl selectively review project-related sub-
loans and provide a brief report on the quality of subloans and the adequacy
of retail lending banks' supervision and records. The external auditors'
opinions and CB examiners' reviews will be kept by CB and will be available
for the Bank's review during supervision.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      CB would be responsible for project implementation.  Under the
credit component, project funds would be channeled by CB to eligible banks
utilizing the existing credit system. CB will determine the eligibility of
retail banks for access to funds, supervise the use of project funds, and
monitor institutional performance and the quality of the loan portfolio.
Subproject appraisal and supervision will be carried out by the participating
banks. CB will also carry out project studies, initiate policy and insti-
tutional reforms, and implement the training component. Chart 1 shows the
schedule of project implementation and Chart 2 shows the flow of project
funds.



- 30 -
A. Credit Operations
Central Bank of the Philippines
4.02      Organization.  Chart 3 shows the organization of CB and Chart 4
shows the CB organization for project implementation. CB's Department of
Loans and Credit (DLC) would be responsible for overall project implementa-
tion. DLC administers CB's short-term rediscounting facilities as well as the
longer-term Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund (IGLF) which provides resources to
banks for lending to small and medium industries and has been used for three
previous Bank-assisted credit projects (Lns. 1120, 1727 and 2169-PH). DLC's
performance in administering the Fund under these projects has been satisfac-
tory. Its loan management and accounting procedures are sound, and its staff
is well qualified. Within DLC, an Agricultural Loan Fund Unit would be estab-
lished to handle day-to-day matters of project implementation (para. 4.03),
and an ALF Policy Advisory Group (ALFPAG) has been set up in the CB Governor's
Office to review project credit activities and to coordinate the various
institutions involved (para. 2.44). DLC would collaborate with five other CB
departments namely: Supervision and Examination Sector (SES) Departments I,
II, and III which oversee and regulate the affairs of commercial, thrift and
rural banks, respectively; the Department of Economic Research which
coordinates development of CB's domestic credit and rediscounting policies;
and the Supervisory Reports Office (SRO) which administers the management
information system for the financial sector.
4.03      Agricultural Loan Fund Unit.  The Agricultural Loan Fund Unit
located within DLC would onlend project funds and provide technical assistance
to retail lending institutions. It would be headed by an experienced Assis-
tant Director responsible to the DLC Director, and organized into three
divisions (Chart 4). The Planning and Monitoring Division will determine the
eligibility of banks for project funds based on qualifying criteria (Annex 4);
provide guidelines to banks for subproject selection and appraisal; carry out
selective end-use verification of subprojects funded by the project; monitor
subproject performance; and liaise with the ALFPAC on policy-related issues
and with CBI on the conduct of staff training programs. The Loan Evaluation
Division will process subloan applications received from retail banks and
review requests for subloan rescheduling. The Accounting, Collection and
Securities Control Division will release project funds, prepare related
documentation, and service loan accounts, including the collection of past
dues. The Unit would initially have about 48 staff members. As a condition
of loan effectiveness, all ALF core staff will be in place.
4.04      ALF Policy Advisory Group (ALFPAG).  Overall review of project
credit activities would be carried out by the ALFPAG which will provide a con-
tinuing review of agricultural credit policies, programs and institutions;
liaise with government agencies concerned with agricultural development; and
coordinate agricultural credit activities within CB's various departments.
The ALFPAG would be comprised of three of CB's Deputy Covernors in charge of
domestic operations, supervision and examination, and economic research. The
ALFPAG will be assisted by a Technical Unit of staff drawn from CB, comple-
mented by new recruitment to fill in specific skill gaps.



- 31 -
4.05      The ALFPAG will periodically consult with various government
agencies, retail lending banks and private sector organizations on matters
concerning agricultural credit. For this purpose, ALFPAC would set up three
informal advisory groups: one comprising senior representatives and technical
staff of government ministries including NEDA, MAF and the Ministries of
Agrarian Reform (MAR) and Finance (MOF); the second comprising representatives
of commercial, thrift and rural banks; and the third comprising representa-
tives of commodity boards and trade organizations. ALFPAG would be able to
refer relevant matters to CB's Monetary Board and the Presidential Committee
on Agricultural Credit (PCAC) through CB's Covernor. During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that the ALFPAG would have these responsibilities. An
assurance was also obtained that by September 30, 1985, the ALFPAG's Technical
Unit would be staffed by core personnel, comprising agricultural economists,
credit specialists and technicians with experience in project-type lending,
and that such staff would be appropriately expanded by recruitment of addi-
tionaL personnel in accordance with plans to be established in consultation
with the Bank by December 31, 1985.
Participating Banks
4.06      Qualifying Criteria.  Retail banks complying with qualifying
criteria issued by CB will have access to project funds. The qualifying
criteria would set a ceiling on subloan arrears (past dues) and require a
balanced term structure and qualified staff (see Annex 4 for details). A
participating bank's total subloan arrears (defined as the uncollected amount
of principal overdue for more than three months) should be less than 15Z of
the outstanding loan portfolio. Commercial banks with subloan arrears of more
than 15% but less than 202, and thrift, rural, or government banks with
arrears of less than 25% will have access to project funds, subject to CB's
approval following an institutional appraisal to ensure the financial
viability of the banks. Banks not qualifying for access to project funds
would be required to upgrade their overall operations and CB will provide
technical assistance for this purpose. A bank with arrears exceeding the
specified ceilings may apply for project funds if unimpaired equity and
reserves, after allowing for default risk, are sufficient to meet CB's minimum
capital requirements. Eligibility of these banks would be determined follow-
ing an institutional appraisal. Banks with arrears exceeding 35% will not
normally qualify for project funds, but if considered eligible by CB on the
basis of an institutional appraisal and an established record of agricultural
lending, their participation in the project would be subject to prior consul-
tation with the Bank. Subloan arrears outstanding for more than a year after
the due date may not exceed 20% of total arrears, and annual repayments of
project subloans must be at least 70% of the aggregate amount fallen due
during that calendar year. Participating banks would also have a balanced
term structure of assets and liabilities, with medium- and long-term subloans
and other assets matched by longer-term resources, including unimpaired
equity, and mediumr and long-term deposits and borrowings.  CB will ensure
that participating banks retain or hire qualified staff to appraise and
supervise the ALF-assisted subloans. The project training program would help
in this regard by increasing the number of trained staff available. Any
deviation from the eligibility criteria would require prior consultation with
the Bank.



- 32 -
4.07      Participation in project lending of the government-owned Philippine
National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), and the
Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) would be subject to the Bank's prior con-
currence, in view of the ongoing pLans to strengthen government financial
institutions. These banks would also have to meet the qualifying criteria
described above. CB and the Bank may, however, agree upon a phased appli-
cation of the general eligibility criteria to government banks as a part of
their overall financial rehabilitation and institutional development plans.
4.08      By July 31, 1985, CB would (a) inform all banks in the country of
the project's scope and lending terms and conditions, including eligibility
criteria for project funds; (b) notify all banks with arrears of less than 152
of outstanding loans of their eligibility for project funds; and (c) by
September 30, 1985 prepare a plan for the institutional appraisal of commer-
cial banks with arrears of more than 15% but less than 20Z, of thrift, rural
and government banks with arrears of more than 15% but less than 25%, and of
banks which have arrears exceeding the specified ceilings, but which apply for
project funds on the basis of their compliance with CB's minimum capital
requirements. Appraisal of priority banks would be completed by March 31,
1986. However, it is expected that the banks which already satisfy these
criteria will begin lending soon after loan effectiveness. During negotia-
tions, an assurance was obtained that CB would by September 30, 1985 furnish
to the Bank for review, an updated list of participating banks and the pLan
for institutional appraisal of banks expected to participate in the project,
and thereafter by March 31 and September 30 of each year, furnish to the Bank
an updating of such list and plan.
4.09      Based on the qualifying criteria, CB has identified 175 banks with a
network of 600 offices in semi-urban and rural areas as currently eligible for
access to project funds. The eligible Banks comprise 15 conu-rcial, 35
thrift, and 125 rural banks. These banks have survived the current crisis and
are expected to provide the initial institutional base for the project. Bank
participation is expected to increase ai a result of CB's ongoing efforts
toward financial sector rehabilitation and improved subLoan collections by
retail banks following the expected economic recovery. Since commercial banks
are relatively new to long-term agricultural lending, an assueance was
obtained from CB at negotiations that it would extend necessa-v technical
assistance to the counercial banks participating in the project in preparing
and implementing institutional development plans commensurate with their
current and prospective agricultural lending operations, and that five of such
plans would be sent to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1985.
Lending Procedures and Terms
4.10      CB has prepared, in consultation with the Bank, a Policy Manual for
project lending which has been approved by its Monetary Board. The Manual
provides operating guidelines specifying lending terms and conditions, includ-
ing subloan size, subborrower contribution, collateral requirements, repayment
terms, interest and rediscount rates, accounting and reporting requirements.
An assurance was obtained from CB at negotiations that any modification in the
Policy Manual for project lending would be made with the Bank's prior concur-
rcuce. Details of ALF lending terms and conditions are given in Annex 5; the
more important lending terms are described below:



- 33 -
(a)  Interest Rates.  Funds onlent by CB to participating banks and by
participating banks to subborrowers will carry market-oriented inter-
est rates consistent with the principLes outlined in Annex 5 which
have been agreed witih CB at negotiations. An assurance to this effect
was obtained at negotiations. Broadly, the interest rates will be
determined by CB and the participating banks as follows.
(i)  CB's Interest Rate on Loans to Participating Banks.  The interest
rate charged by CB on its loans to participating banks would be
market-oriented; will fully cover the cost of ALF operations;
and will be at least equal to the average cost of the banking
system's savings and time deposits, zJcluding the cost of
mobilizing such deposits (Annex 5).1_/ CB may prescribe
different interest rates for production and longer-term credit,
consistent with market trends.171 The arrangement that CB's
interest rate should not be lower than the weighted average cost
of the banking system's savings and time deposits is expected to
encourage participating banks to fund a rising proportion of
their loans through deposit mobilization and to increasingly
promote CB's role as the lender-of-last resort. CB will review
its interest ratels at least on a quarterly basis.
(ii)  Interest Rates on Subloans and Spreads.  Interest rates to
subborrowers would be determined by individual participating
banks, reflecting, among other things, the cost of their overall
loanable funds and transaction costs of the subloan. Individual
banks would be free to determine the spread on subloans which is
most appropriate to their operations, including the weighted
average cost of their resources deployed in the subproject, the
possible default risk on their overall loan portfolio, as well as
the characteristics of individual subloans. The spread will also
include an element of profit to provide an incentive for their
participation.
16/ CB currently uses the Manila Reference Rate (NRR) as the main determinant
of the market rate. The MRR is calculated by CB every week, based on a
weighted average of the rates paid by the ten financial institutions with
the largest volume of deposit substitutes for 90-day, 180-day and 270-day
placements. Since the MRR is not comprehensive enough to be represen-
tative of the market, CB will establish a new rate/s based on principles
noted in para. 4.10(a).
171 Based on current costs of ALF funds (17%) and the weighted average cost
of the banking system's savings and time deposits (18-20%), CB's interest
rate is expected to be about 20%. Assuming that the interest spreads of
participating banks range between 5-8%, the subloan interest rates would
range between 25-28%. It is expected that interest rates would decline
as the economy recovers and inflation decreases.



- 34 -
(iii)  Revisions in Interest Rates.  Any revision of interest rates on
CB-funds and subloans, once disbursed, would generally occur
semi-annually to reflect changes in the weighted average cost of
loanable funds. Marginal changes in the cost of borrowing will
not usually initiate any change in interest rates on outstanding
subloans. Interest rates on subloans for seasonal production
credit are not expected to change, because of the relatively
short maturities of such credit. As a monitoring tool, however,
any increase of above two percentage points over the interest
rate at which a subloan was originally disbursed by a partici-
pating bank would be reported to CB, with an explanation of why
the increase was necessary.
(b)  Subloan Maturities.  The repayment period of short-term subloans
would normally be within 12 months, except for sugar and banana
production which would be r'payable within 18 months. The repayment
period for medium- and long-term subloans would be based on the
subproject's cash flow and related to the subborrower's overall
repayment capacity. Repayment of most subloans will be in S to 10
years but will not exceed 15 years, or the economic life of the sub-
project, whichever is lower. A grace period may be granted for
repayment of principal based on the subproject's cash flow and the
overall financial status of the subborrower.
(c)  Subborrower's Contribution.  A subborrower's contribution to the
production and investment cost of a subproject would be determined
by a participating bank on the basis of the subproject appraisal,
but would not be less than 10%.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from CB that it will consis-
tently maintain the financial viability of project operations by providing
adequate counterpart funds, by reviewing and adjusting interest rates on its
loans to participating banks as necessary, and by retaining in ALF all profits
needed to cover the cost of ALF operations, provision for bad and doubtful
debts, the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan and such other purposes as
shall be determined in consultantion with the Bank. An assurance was also
obtained that CB will deposit in the ALF all loan repayments by participating
banks, and use these funds for new loans, in accordance with the project's
terms and conditions and any further arrangements as may be agreed to between
the Bank and CB.
4.11      Subloan Appraisal and Disbursement Procedures.  Subloan appraisal
and approval will be the responsibility of the participating banks, whose
capability to undertake these activities will be determined by CB under the
project's qualifying criteria (para. 4.06). Duties of participating bank loan
officers are given in Annex 6, Table 1. Seasonal production loans would be
based on production costs as derived from a typical farm plan which will
indicate the benefit-cost ratio of the investment. Appraisal of medium- and
long-term loans would be based on the technical and financial characteristics
of the subproject. For each medium- and long-term subloan, a participating
bank would prepare a financial plan including the subproject's cash flow. As
calculation of financial rates of return (FRRs) for all subloans would be



- 35 -
impractical, the lending banks would caLculate an FRR for typical subprojects
in each principal activity financed. An FRR would be calculated for all
subprojects costing more than P 2 million. For a subproject to be accepted,
the FRR should be consistent with the interest rate on the subLoan. CB would
also calcuLate economic rates of return for subloans above P 10 million and
for typical projects with subloans below P 10 million.
4.12      Supervision of Subloans.  Supervision of subloans will also be the
responsibility of participating banks, which will designate specific officers
for this purpose. Banks would require subborrowers to use project funds for
approved purposes. This would be achieved through direct payments to sup-
pliers of inputs and materials as practicable, and through quarterly or semi-
annual field visits to subprojects as may be prescribed by CB. Follow-up
reports on each visit would comment on utilization of project funds, compare
actual and planned operations, review management and financial problems of
subprojects, and make recommendations. Banks would also obtain periodic
operating and financial reports from subborrowers of medium- and long-term
loans and undertake selective field visits to problem projects for assessment
of their problems.
4.13      CB's ALF Unit would conduct selective end-use verification of
subprojects financed under the project to ensure that the banks' supervision
is satisfactory. Overall, about 20% of the subprojects financed by the proj-
ect would be visited by CB staff, although the number would vary from bank to
bank.
4.14      Restructuring of Loans Affected by Calamities.  Restructuring of
subloans would be admitted when loss or damage results from force majeure,
i.e., typhoons, earthquakes or other calamities beyond the borrower's con-
trol. Any rescheduling of maturity dates and provision of additionaL financ-
ing would be subject to the prior approval of CB.
4.15      Technical Support.  CB and the Government will make their technical
staff available to banks lending under the project. Government extension
staff are available throughout the country to advise on crop production, live-
stock and fisheries. Under the Bank-assisted Fourth Rural Credit Project
(Ln. 1399-PH), CB established 15 regional loan teams comprising about 50
technical and non-technical staff to assist rural and thrift banks in subloan
appraisal and supervision. In addition, CB has deployed some 90 agricultural
credit supervisors in the field. These staff will continue to be available to
all banks, including commercial banks, upon request. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained from CB and Government that their technical and
extension staff deployed in the field would be made available to participating
banks upon request, in assisting subproject appraisal and supervision. Both
Government and CB may require the participating banks to pay reasonable fees
for the services rendered by such technical staff.
B. Other Project Components
4.16      Policy Studies.  ALFPAG, through its Technical Unit in the
Governor's Office and the ALF Unit, will be responsible to implement this
component, with assistance where necessary from Government. Agreement on the



-36 
timing and terms of reference for the studies or their design and approach was
obtained at negotiations (para. 3.19).
4.17      Project-Related Training.  The Central Bank Institute (CBI) will be
principally responsible for project-related training, in association with CB's
DLC. CBI has excellent facilities, qualified trainers and experience in
organizing training courses. CBI is carrying out a survey which would be
completed by June 1985 to identify project-related tasks, the skills required,
prevailing and prospective skill gaps, the clientele to be trained and the
type of courses suitable for providing the skills required. Approximately
1,000 CB and retail bank staff would be trained during the project period.  As
part of the proposed training program, CBI would also conduct a teachers'
training program in June-July 1985, using training materials to be provided by
the Bank's Economic Development Institute.  If necessary, the program would be
repeated in 1986 and 1988. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
that the training program for FY86 will be sent to the Bank for review by
September 30, 1985, and thereafter that the program for each fiscal year will
be sent to the Bank by March 31 of each year.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18      CB would establish a monitoring and evaluation system for project-
related operations (Annex 6). The objectives of the system are to identify
constraints, initiate corrective measures and upgrade project implementa-
tion. The main components of the monitoring and evaluation system would
comprise: (a) regular reporting on the financial and physical progress of the
project within both CB and the participating banks; (b) annual evaluations
during project implementation to assess performance of typical subprojects and
the project's impact on the financial condition of participating banks; and
(c) ex-post evaluation of the project's credit and institutional development
components. Monitoring would be the responsibility of the ALF Unit, while
annual and ex-post evaluation studies would be undertaken by ALFPAG's
Technical Unit or contracted to the Technical Board for Agricultural Credit
(TBAC), the University of the Philippines at Los Banos, the Development
Academy of the Philippines and similar research organizations which have
capabilities to undertake such studies. The scope and methodology of evalua-
tion studies will be determined in consultation with the Bank. During nego-
tiations an assurance was obtained that CB, in consultation with the Bank,
would prepare annual programs for the evaluation of project activities and
related terms of reference. CB would monitor the progress of these evalua-
tions, review their conclusions and use the findings in future project
lending. The first such program would be submitted to the Bank by
December 31, 1985 and thereafter by December 31 of each project year.
4.19      Quarterly reports on disbursements, semi-annual reports on monitor-
ing and annual evaluation reports would be submitted to the Bank by CB. CB
would prepare progress reports for the Bank, the form and content of which
would be determined in consultation with the Bank. In addition, CB would
prepare a Project Completion Report to be submitted to the Bank not later than
six months after the closing date of the loan.



- 37 -
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.01      General.  The proposed project would help foster economic recovery
in the Philippines through provision of seasonal production and investment
credit which would strengthen and expand the existing production base and
contribute to increased agricultural, livestock and fishery production and
rural employment. The project would also support the Government's effort to
establish an institutional and policy framework which would promote develop-
ment of a financially sound rural credit system. Implementation of the policy
and institutional reforms in conjunction with the project is expected to bring
about an eventual expansion of banking services available in rural areas,
reduced reliance on government resources for agricultural lending, greater
financial discipline in Government's agricultural credit programs, and through
project-related training and technical assistance, an improved staff capa-
bility in CB and credit institutions.
5.02      The project's agricultural benefits cannot be quantified since the
precise mix of the project's lending program would depend on market forces.
The project is, however, expected to help safeguard existing levels of pro-
duction and contribute to incremental production in commodities such as rice,
corn, livestock and fisheries, fruits and vegetables and plantation crops
including rubber, banana, mango and abaca. Project assistance would also be
extended to sugarcane, but only existing efficient operations would be
supported and the project would not increase overall production (para. 5.06).
Financial and Economic Analysis
5.03      The project's aggregate financial and economic rates of return
cannot be computed since the actual mix of enterprises will depend on market
forces. However, financial and economic anaLyses of typical subprojects have
been carried out for a series of illustrative models.
5.04      Seasonal Production Credit.  Some 85Z of project-funded seasonal
production credit is expected to be onlent for rice, corn and sugar produc-
tion. The benefit-cost ratios of these investments, to be funded in 1985-86,
would be satisfactory in both financial and economic terms. Details of these
calculations are given in Annex 7, Tables 3 and 4 and their results appear in
Table 5.1.



- 38 -
Table 5.1:  BENEFIT-COST RATIOS, 1985-86 CROPS
(September 1984 pesos)
Rice /a                 Corn /a            Sugarcane /b
Financial  Economic   Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic
Production value         6,676      4,282        7,192      6,737      300         281
Production cost          2,961       2,402       1,109        838      264         140
Benefit-cost ratio       2.3:1       1.8:1       6.5:1      8.0:1    1.1:1       2.0:1
/a   On 1 ha.
7T   For production of 1 picul of sugar (64 kg).
5.05      The profitability of rice and corn production in the Philippines is
expected to continue to at least 1995.  The world market price of rice,
currently at a depressed level of US$262/ton, is projected to increas  in real
terms to US$345/ton by 1990 and to remain around that level to 1995./
Although the PhL'ppines has achieved a surplus in milled rice in relation to
domestic demand" , Government is attempting to increase rice exports, which
averaged about 100,000 tons p.a. during 1977-83. Government is gradually
liberalizing control over rice exports to enable private millers to enter the
export market, and has firm plans to establish export grades and to provide
improved milling facilities to raise the quality of Philippine rice which in
the past received a discounted price due to poor milling. The world market
price for corn is projected to decline by about 10% during 1986-90 compared to
the current price of US$142/ton. This is not likely to affect the profita-
bility of domestic production which Government is currently trying to improve
by increasing the availability of improved seeds and technical support. The
economic benefit-cost ratio for sugarcane is comparable to that for rice but
is far lower than that for corn. The financial benefit-cost ratio for sugar-
cane is now relatively low because of depressed world market prices averaging
US$110/ton. Since sugarcane lands in the Philippines are suitable for corn
cultivation, Government is encouraging a shift from sugar to corn production.
5.06      The financial viability of sugar production in the Philippines is
determined by the composite price representing the weighted average cost of
both export and domestic prices. The export price of sugar is projected to
increase from US$118/ton in 1985 to US$186 in 1986 and to US$343/ton in
1990. This increase is expected to provide increasingly remunerative
18/ World Bank Commodity Prices Forecast, December 1984.
19/ A significant shortfall in production caused by extended drought in
1983/84 necessitated some rice imports in 1984; there will be some
imports also in 1985 because lower levels of fertilizer application (due
to high prices) will cause decreased yields and hence overall production.



- 39 -
composite prices to sugarcane farmers and would improve the financial benefit-
cost ratio for an average farm to 1.3:1 in 1986 and 1.8:1 in 1990. At the
same time, national sugar production is expected to decline from 2.2 milLion
tons in 1984-5 to 1.8 million tons in 1985-86 and to 1.6 million tons in later
years in response to market forces, particularly the phasing out of marginal
lands from sugarcane production. The project would thus help to relieve the
current credit constraint and to preserve sugar production for a domestic
market comprising 55 milLion people and for exports to the U.S. market on a
preferential basis, which is expected to continue. However, the project is
not expected to increase sugar production. The major sugar financing banks
have established credit appraisal procedures to ensure that credit is extended
to sugarcane growers whose production records are satisfactory.
5.07      Medium- and Long-term Credit.  The financial and economic rates of
return on selected subprojects reviewed at appraisal are shown in Table 5.2.
Some 32 investment models prepared by CB are available in the project file.
The financial rates of return indicated by CB anaLysis range between 25% to
47% for poultry and livestock development (except cattle feedlots), 18Z to
over 50% for plantation crops, 29% to over 50Z for agro-processing, 15% to 48%
for fisheries, and 27% to 50% for farm mechanization (except tractors).
Selected models were reviewed during preparation and appraisal, based on
September 1984 constant prices and the Bank's commodity price forecasts.
Table 5.2: RATES OF RETURN ON LONGER-TERM SUBLOANS
Financial             Economic
rate of return       rate of return
____ ___(z)
Power tiller                                 36                  84
Tractor                                      25                  38
Piggery:      20 sow fattening               28                  48
Poultry:      10,000 broilers                29                  37
Banana                                       43                  77
Citru3                                       46                  95
Fish processing                              46                  62
5 ha fishpond                                35                  39
3 ha fish pen                                34                  60
5.08      Assumptions Used in the Economic Analysis.  Financial rates of
return have been derived by using the World Bank's commodity price forecasts
(Dacember 1984), as appropriate. Illustrative models used for the financial
analysis have been adjusted for computation of economic rates of return based
on the following assumptions.



- 40 -
5.09      An exchange rate of P 20 per US dollar has been used in the
analysis. Al,l goods and services have been valued at their border prices.
For conmodities traded in world markets, prices at the farmgate level have
been derived from prevailing and projected world market prices. Non-
internationally traded commodities, the prices of which include locally con-
tributed distortions, have been valued at border prices by applying a standard
conversion factor of 0.86 to their financial prices.
5.10      The economic value of labor (family and hired labor) is estimated at
its opportunity cost in terms of production foregone in alternative activi-
ties. Given the prevailing conditions of underemployment and unemployment in
the Philippines, a factor of 0.5 has been used to value unskilled family and
hired farm labor.
5.11      All investment costs, valued at border prices, have been included in
calculating economic rates of return. Duties, taxes and subsidies have been
excluded. Specific conversion factors have been used to convert financial
costs into economic values as follows: construction - 0.84; transportation -
0.80; and electricity, gas and water - 0.80. All other financial costs were
converted by the standard conversion factor (0.86) to derive economic values.
5.12      The financial and economic rates of return were subjected to
sensitivity tests and the results are summarized in Annex 7, Table 5. The
analysis shows that all investment models could sustain decreased benefits of
10% combined with increased costs of at least 10%, and in most cases consider-
ably more. Rates of return for piggery investments are particularly sensitive
to variations in costs and benefits; consequently, particular attention will
have to be paid in these subloans to achieving cost efficiencies and improved
output through efficient management. Since input and output cost-price
relationships are expected to undergo significant changes in the wake of
ongoing economic stabilization measures, deregulation of prices, and fluctua-
tions in the peso exchange rate, the financial and economic analysis can at
best be indicative. During project implementation, CB would undertake finan-
cial and economic analysis of typical subprojects on a continuing basis
through a series of evaluation studies (para. 4.18) and keep the participating
banks informed of the results as an input to their lending decisions. Rates
of return will also be reviewed during Bank supervision of the project to
guide the composition of the lending program.
Impact of the Project on CB and on Participating Banks
5.13      CB loans to banks under the project are expected to total US$113.2
million, US$51.7 millicn in seasonal production credit and the balance in
medium- and long-term loans. Participating bank subloans would amount to
US$182.5 million. Because interest rates on project subloans will be market-
oriented, the project would be self-sustaining for both CB and the retail
banks. Assuming a break-even interest rate on CB funds of 18% p.a., the
financial projections for years 1-10 show that after meeting interest and
administrative costs and assuming an exchange depreciation (see project file),
CB will have a financial surplus amounting to 15% of the total outstanding
balance to cover any arrears (including bad debts) of participating banks to
CB (Annex 7, Table 6). Based on a sensitivity analysis at CB interest rates



- 41 -
of 15Z, 16X and 172, the break-even interest rate would be about 16.5-17Z.
The extended cashflow will generate sufficient resources to repay the Bank
loan and interest. Since project funds will be rolled over to finance a
series of subprojects, the project's aggregate benefits will be much larger
than those from the initial set of subprojects funded.
B. Risks
5.14      The project is being launched at a time when the Philippine,; is in
the process of implementing an economic stabilization and recovery program.
Civen the uncertainties in the financial sector, CB and Government are
continuing their efforts in support of the sector's rehabilitation and
restructuring. Against this background, two major uncertainties are assoc-
iated with project implementation. The first project risk is that the agri-
culture sector may recover from its present crisis at a slower pa:e than
expected, despita the introduction of policies aimed at providing incentives
for private sector investment, causing demand for project investment credit to
be less than anticipated. However, a continuing review of the Government's
agricultural policies is planned under the Bank-assisted Agricultural
Sector/Inputs Project (Ln. 2469-PH). There is also an institutional risk
associated with CB's channeling of funds through a banking system which has
been financially impaired by the recent economic crisis. This risk would be
addressed by applying qualifying criteria to select financially viable banks
for participation in the project, extending CB assistance to strengthen the
capacity of participating banks to undertake agricultural lending, and
establishing lending terms which would allow banks to determine spreads on
interest rates which would be sufficient to cover their transaction costs,
including the risk of subloan default. Training in project-related skills
would also be provided to the staff of CB and participating banks to
facilitate project implementation.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and CB on
the following:
(a) Schedules for the phasing out of agricultural credit subsidies and
for project studies (paras. 2.38 and 3.19); and
(b) Principles by which to determine project interest rates (para.
4.10).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government and CB
that:
(a) Subsidies on agricultural credit would be phased out in accordance
with the schedule agreed during negotiations, and no new program
with an interest rate or capital subsidy would be introduced for
funding with CB's own resources (para. 2.38);
(b)  Bank approval would be required for individual subloans over P 20
million (para. 3.10);



- 42 -
(c) By December 31, 1985, CB will establish minimum technical norms to
be applied in appraisal and sanction of subloans for farm
mechanization investments, and would review the implementation and
impact of these investments (para. 3.18);
(d)  All project-related studies would be completed within the time frame
agreed upon during negotiations and on terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank. Based on the findings of those studies, CB would
initiate remedial measures in consultation with the Bank
(para. 3.19);
(e) By September 30, 1985, CB and MAF would complete reconstitution of
ANDAC and issue a notice indicating the probable composition of the
Philippines' machinery imports during the coming year and inviting
manufacturers and dealers to seek accreditation with AMDAC (para.
3.25);
(f) The ALFPAG would have the responsibilities described in paras. 4.04-
4.05. The ALFPAG Technical Unit would be staffed by core personnel
by September 30, 1985 and its staff would be expanded in accordance
with plans to be established in consultation with the Bank by
December 31, 1985 (para. 4.05);
(g) By September 30, 1985, CB would furnish to the Bank for review an
updated list of participating banks and the plan for institutional
appraisal of banks expected to participate in the project, and
thereafter by March 31 and SeptLmber 30 of each year, furnish to the
Bank an updating of such list and plan (para. 4.08). CB would
extend technical assistance to private coumercial banks partici-
pating in the project to prepare and implement institutional
deveLopment plans; five of these plans would be sent to the Bank for
comment by December 31, 1985 (para. 4.09);
(h)  Any modification in the Policy Manual for project lending would be
made with the Bank's prior concurrence (para. 4.10);
(i) Interest rates on CB loans to participating banks and on the bankst
subloans would be market-oriented and consistent with principles
agreed with the Bank (para. 4.10);
(j) CB would maintain the financial viability of project operations by
providing adequate counterpart funds, by reviewing and adjusting
interest rates on its loans to participating banks as necessary, and
by retaining in ALF all profits necessary to fully cover the cost of
ALF operations, provision for bad and doubtful debts, and the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. CB will deposit the loan
repayments of participating banks in the ALF and use these funds for
new loans, in accordance with the project's terms and conditions and
any further arrangements as may be agreed between the Bank and CB
(para. 4.10);



- 43 -
(k) The technical and extension staff deployed in the field by CB and
Government would be available to retail banks, upon request, in
support of subproject appraisal and supervision (para. 4.15);
(1) The training program for FY86 wiLl be sent to the Bank for review by
September 30, 1985 and thereafter the program for each fiscal year
will be sent to the Bank by March 31 of each year (para. 4.17); and
tm) CB, in consultation with the Bank, would prepare annual programs for
the evaluation of project activities and related terms of reference.
CB would monitor the progress of these evaluations, review their
conclusions and use the findings in future project lending. The
first program would be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1985
and thereafter by December 31 of each project year (para. 4.18).
6.03      As a condition of loan effectiveness, all ALF core staff would be in
place (para. 4.03).
6.04      With the above condition, agreements and assurances, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 million to the Government of the
Philippines, for a term of 20 years including a grace period of five years.



Table I
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Industrial Origin of Domestic Product at 1972 Constant Prices Crowth Rates (Z)
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
r      p
Agriculture, fishery and forestry          6.1    2.6    4.3    8.0    5.0    4.1    4.5    5.0    3.7    3.1   -2.1
Industry                                  12.4    5.6    8.7   10.4    8.4    6.1    8.0    4.7    4.5    2.1    0.7
Hining and quarrying                     7.7    0.0    0.0    7.1   13.3    5.9   16.7    4.8    0.0   -9.1    0.0
Hhnufacturing                           14.3    4.4    3.6    5.8    7.7    7.1    5.2    4.5    3.4    2.1    2.4
Construction                             9.1   12.5   48.1   32.5    9.4    1.7   15.3    4.4    9.9    3.8   -4.9
Electricity, gas, water                  0.0   20.0    0.0   16.7    0.0   14.3    0.0   12.5   11.1   10.0    9.1
Services                                   7.0    6.2    6.3    5.6    4.9    5.9    5.8    6.2    3.4    3.5    3.7
Transport, comsunication & storage   11.1   10.0    9.1   11.1    5.0    7.1    2.2    4.3    4.2    4.0    1.9
Trade                                    6.7    6.3    3.5    5.7    7.5    7.0    7.5    6.1    4.1    3.1    6.1
Finance and housing                      4.4    4.3   10.2    5.6    3.5    5.1    6.5    7.6   -1.4    4.3    6.8
Other services                           8.0    7.4    4.6    3.3    3.2    5.2    4.9    5.6    5.3    4.2   -0.8
GDP at market prices                       8.5    5.0    6.6    7.9    6.1    5.5    6.3    5.3    3.9    2.9    1.1
GNP at market prices                       9.3    5.6    6.0    7.2    6.3    5.8    6.9    5.0    3.4    1.9    1.3
r - Revised
p - Preliminary
Source: NEDA National Accounts Staff.



Table 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Gross Value Added in Agriculture, Fishery and Foresty by Subsector at 1972 Constant Prices
(in billion pesos)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Agriculture                    8.9      9.0     9.9    11.2    12.1    12.7    13.3    14.1    15.0    15.4    15.9    15.0
Paddy                       2.7      2.8      3.1      3.4      3.4      3.8     3.8      3.9      4.2      4.3      4.5      3.9
Corn                         1.0     0.9      1.1      1.2      1.2      1.3      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.5      1,5      1.4   3
Coconut, lncl. copra         1.2     1.0      0.8      1.1      1.4      1.3      1.3     1.3      1.3      1.4      1.3      1.3  *
Sugarcane                   1.1      1.1      1.4      1.4      1.6      1.3      1.3     1.4      1.3      1.3      1.5      1.1
Banana                      0.6      0.7      0.9      1.3      1.4      1.7     2.0      2.2      2.4      2.4      2.3      2.4
Other crops                 2.3      2.4      2.6      2.8      3.1      3.2      3.6     4.0      4.3      4.4      4.7      5.0
Livestock                      1.8     2.0      2.0      1.7      1.7      1.8      1.9      2.0     1.8      1.9      2.0      2.2
Poultry                       0.7      0.8      0.8      0.9      1.0      1.1      1.2      1.4      1.6     1.9      2.2      2.5
Fishery                        2.6     2.9      3.0      3.2      3.3      3.5      3.7     3.7      3.9      4.1      4.3      4.4
Forestry                       2.0     2.4      1.8      1.3      1.6      1.6      1.5      1.4      1.4     1.2      1.0      0.7
Total                   16.0    17.0    17.5    18.2    19.7    20.6    21.6    22.6    23.7    24.6    25.4    24.8
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Source: National Accounts Staff, NEDA.



- 46 -
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Structure and Growth of the Financial System
Real rates of
Assets (1983)         growth pea.
P billion     (Z)    1975-79   1979-83
Central Bank                             130.1      23.7        6.9      13.9
Banking system                           325.8      59.5       10.2       8.7
Coumercial banks                      235.0       42.9       9.5        8.0
Thrift banks                            16.1       2.9       24.3       8.5
Rural banks                              9.5       1.7       4.1        5.7
Specialized government banks            65.2      11.9       11.6      12.0
Nonbank financial intermediaries          92.0      16.8        6.2       4.5
Total Financial System                   547.9     100.0        8.7       9.0
(Of which:  public institutions)    (255.3)    (46.6)       (6.3)    (11.5)
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines.



Table 4
-47-
?IUILIPZ
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Assets of the FinancIal System
(ClUlon Peso)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983p
Central lank                             21.4   26.1   29.0   29.0   38.4   51.0   65.4   71.6   91.7  122.3
Ranki  gff 9Srt                          54.1   69.9   79.9   95.3  121.8  154.0  188.8  219.2  269.8  318.6
Co."un:L3l Tanks                       42.4   53.2   58.7   68.7   89.8  113.9  138.4  157.7  195.8  235.0
Private                              29.9   35.1    0.2   *2.6   56.4   70.0   85.1   96.5  115.8  134.1
Covernment                            12.5   18.1   18.5   18.6   22.3   28.9   34.6   40.6   53.3   60.0
Foreign, bmaks                         -       -       -      7.5   11.1   15.0   18.7   20.6   26.7   40.9
Thrlft J nks                            1.7    2.1    3.0    4.1    5.6    7.7   10.6   11.7   12.6   16.0
Savings                                1.2    rIX    2.0    2.8    3.9    5.T    7.T    7.0    5.9 7=
Private development banks /b          0.3    0.4    0.5    0.6    0.8    1.0    1.6    2.6    3.7    4.5
Savings & loan associatlons           0.2    0.3    0.5    0.7    0.9    1.3    1.6    2.1    3.0    4.1
- aral Tanks Ic                         2.1    2.8    3.0    3.4    4.1    5.0    5.6    6.6    8.1    9.2
Specialized Gov't Banks                 7.9   11.8   15.2   19.1   22.3   27.4   34.2   43.2   53.3   58.4
Development lank of the Phillppines /b 6.7    9.6   12.7   15.8   18.8   i2.3   28.0   35.9   45.2   49.7
Land Bank                             1.2    2.1    2.4    3.2    3.4    5.0    6.1    7.1    7.9    8.5
Philippine Aonna BaRak                 -      0.1    0.1    0;1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2
Ronbank Flancial Intermediaries         20.4   26.3   33.8   34.2   40.3   48.1   58.9   59.6   69.0   72.7
Insurance Co   em                      10.0   11.9   15.2   17.5   21.6   24.6   29.5   33.3   40.7   ;4.1
vverent I-. /b                        6.5    7.7   10.0   11.3   13.8   15.6   19.5   22.0   27.0  3TOM
Private Id                            3.5    4.2    5.2    6.2    7.8    9.0   10.0   11.3   13.7   13.7
wes-tent Instltutlons                   6.9   10.3   13.2   14.5   16.0   20.4   25.6   23.5   25.6   25.5
Flnacall copantee /e                  2.3    3.5    4. 6    5.8    6.8    9.7   11.9   12.1   12.9   12.5
nveestment companles                  0.7    2.0    3.8    3.9    4.4    4.1    5.0    5.5    5.9    5.1
Others (investment bouses) /e         3.9    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    6.6    8.7    5.9    6.8    7.9
Trust Operations (Fund Managers) /a     2.0    2.6    3.3    0.5    0.8    1.2    1.7    0.7    1.1    1.5
Other Financial Intermediaries          1.52   2.03   2.12    1.72   1.92   1.92   2.12    2.12   1.62   1.62
Total                               95.9  122.8  142.7  158.5  200.5  253.1  313.1  350.4  430.5  513.6
Ia  Inludes Goverment Service Insurance Systus (OSIS) and Social Security System (SSS).
lb For 1983, as of November.
Jc For 1983, as of September.
/d  As of December 1982.
/a For 1983, as of June.
P - Preliminary.



PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Philippine Financial System
Nmber of rtnancial Institutione as of Yeer-End 1980 to 1983 /a
Increase (decrease) in anmber
1980                     1981                                    1982                                      1983                                    1982/83
Read                                     Head                                     Head                                    -sad
Total    Office  Rranchas   Other   Total          Office  Branches   Other   Total         Office  Branches   Other   Total         Office  Dranches   Other   Total
Commerclal banks                   1,48/Lb      33      1,347       319   1,699/c         34    1,452        307 1,793             34    1,554        316   1,904             -       102         9      111
Rural banks                        1,1535    1,038          4       126   1,18        1,031        72       141   1,244          949        94        109   1,152          (8t)       22       (32)    (92)
Spcialised Gov't banks                92         3         70        43      116           3        72        44      119            3       71        23       97            -        (1)      (21)    (22)
Thrift banks                         671       140        286       213      639         137       320       226      683          136      353        219     708           (1)      (33)       (7)      25        1
Savings & mortgage banks          266          9        126        54      189           8       140        56      204           8       140        61    .209            -          -         5        5
Private dev. banks                 154        44         65        73      182          45        75        79      199          45       101        72      218            -        26         7)      19
Stock savings 6 loan
associations                    251        87         95        86      268           84       Ins        91      280          83       112        86      281          (1)        7        CS)        I
Nonbanktng institutions /d        1,554    1,340          269         -   1,629        1,377       306         -   1,683        1,480       333         -   1,613           103        27         -      130
Total                       4,960    2,554       1,996       701   5251         2,5S2    2,222        718   5 SZ2        2.502    2,405         667   5.674           20       183       (51)    152
/a  Includes subbranches, extension and all other offices.
/b Excludes oversesa offices.
/c  Excludes overseas offices and agencies.
/d Includes financial Lntereedlaries and thrift Institutions.
Sourcess CS Fact 0ooka on Philippine Financial System.
'*6



Table 6
-49-
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Loans Granted - Sumary by Institution
(P bllUion at 1978 prices) /a
1979                    1981                    1983
Farm pro-   All ac-    Farm pro-   All ac-    Farm pro-   All ac-
Agency                  duction/b  tivities/c  duction/b  tivities/c  ductionlb  tivitieslc
Private Commercial
Banks
Amount                   8.9         27.8        13.8        38.2        11.3         35.1
% of total              57.0        70.0        69.0         75.0        65.0        80.0
Government Banks /d
PNB                      2.6          6.9        2.1          6.7         2.1         4.1
DEP                      0.4          0.7        0.5          0.7         0.05        0.1
LBP                      0.7          1.0        0.1          1.4         0.1         0.5
Subtotal              3.7         8.6         2.7          8.8        2.25         4.7
7 of total         23.0        22.0        13.0         17.0       13.0         11.0
Thrift Banks
Amount                   0.4          0.5        0.6          0.7         0.8         0.8
1 of total               3.0          1.0        3.0          2.0         5.0         2.0
Rural Banks
Amount                   2.6          2.6        3.0          3.0         3.0         3.0
% of total              17.0          7.0       15.0          6.0        17.0         7.0
Total                15.6        39.5        20.1         50.7       17.4         43.6
/a  Deflated by producers' price index for agricultural products, 1978-100; 1979-114.26;
1981-125.99; 1983-155.95.
/b Represents loans exclusively for farm production activities.
/c  Represents loans for farm production, processing, marketing and other agriculture-
related activities.
/d Philippine Amanah Bank has not reported any agricultural loans.



AcRICULTUAL CIZIT FbWROCT
Agricultural Loan. Granted and OuUCtadl. b, Institution
( 1ll1ion at current ticee')
co,admed
Average X share   "Baual aemilea
1978                  1979                 1930                 1981                 1962                 1983            A419810 )
PSICA    Kpand.dgb   PStC    Expanded    PCsC xinpnnded   iStC                I.;      7SIC               -RTF 7SI    Vpi4                        1U!re   o r tg
Loane Crentad
oowerveouF
PI3                                 1,020.6    6,501.3    3,030.5   7,844.3   3,093.3   8,432.6   2,605.4   8,450.3   3,642.8   6,625.6   3,227.5   6,365.3   12.7    13.6            25.9      (0.4)
DIP                                   470.6      696.6       394.3      750.4     538.7      673.3     674.7      864.1     603.6      632.8      79.7      109.4    2.1      1.1    (29.9)   (30.9)
LUJACA                                271.5       219.6      848.2   1,062.1       71.6      831.4     130.5   1,720.0      221,3   1,224.1      207.6      743.9    1.3      1.6     (5.2)    20.7
subtotal                          1,762.7    7,487.7    4,273.0   9,656.6   3,703.6   9,937.3   3,410.6  11,034,4   4,467.7   8,482.7   3,515.0   7,238.6   16.1    16.5            14.6      (0.7)
o_reial banks                         7,817.8   25,848.3   10,213.1  11,796.9  13,342.6  39,114.6  17,430.9  48,116.3  17,433.5  45,826.5  17,643.6  54,670.6   64.1    75.3             17.7     16.2
urol banks                            2,384,8    2,384.8    2,950.4   2,950.4   3,257.3   3,257.3   3,729.9   3,729.9   4,307,0   4,307.0   4,610.3   4,610.3   16.2            6.5      14.1     14.1
Ihrift banks                            421.1       454.1      480.1      527.9     642.9      706.5     805.2      898.3   1.124.5   1,437.9   1.169.7   1,285.5    3.6        1.7      23.1     23.1
Private dey. bank.                     97.5       117.0      123.6      150.4     170.9      203.2     215.0      263,1     407.3      579.3     330.3      400.4    1.0      0.5     27.6      27.9
Savings A mortgage banks LC            65.8        79.3       79.5      100.5      96.0      127,3      116.0     161.0      162.§     324.3      80.4      106.1    0.5      0.4      4.1       6.0
5SLAs                                 257.8       257.8      277.0      277.0     376.0      376.0     474.2      474.2     534.3      534.3      779.0     779.0    2.1      0.8      24.8     24.6
Subtotal                         10.623.7   20.687.2   13,643.8  35,275.2  17,242.8  43,076.4  21,966.0  52,744.S  22,665.0  51,571.4  23.443,6  60.566,4   63.9    83.5            1.7.2     16.1
Total                            12,386.4   36,174.9   17,916,8  44,932.0  20,946.4  53,015.7  25,376.6  63.778.9  27.332.7  60.054.1  26.958.6  67,805.0  100.0   100.0             16.8     13.4
lasn Outtatnding
2,837.6    7,963.4    2,943.0  10,503.6   3,157.0   9,146.5   3,806.8  10,110.2   4,790.0  11,564.4   4,987.1  12,547.0   20.3    29.6            11.9       9.5
DIP                                 1,863.4    2,861.9    2,395.4   3,478.2   2,564.4   3,765.4   3,038.3   4,596.2   3,131.9   4,119.8   2,675.0   4.103,4   14.1    11.0             7.5       7.5
LS/ACA                                477.6       582.7    1,132.1   1,586.3      296.1   1,231,7       143.4   3,204.2      519.0   3,306.7      765.9   1,855.0    3,1      3.4    (15.8)    26.1
Subtotal                         5.178.6   11.406.1    6,470.5  15,168,1   6,019.5  14.143.6   6,988.5  17,910.6   8.440.9  18.992.9   8.448.0  18.505.4   37.5    46.0             10.3      10.2
?tivate
5_rcial banks                         2,910.7    6,147.8    4,531.6   9,416,5   6,696.1  14,335.1   6,601.7  14,375,6   7,115,6  14,983,9   7,086.8  16,426.2   31.5    37.2             19.5     24.5
1ural bank.                           3,114.6    3,114.6    3,773.8   3,773.8   4,241.0   4,241.0   4,874.1   4,874.1   5,770.7   5,770.7   6,514.8   6,514.8   25.5    13.5             15.9     15.9
Thrift banks                            610.6       722.7      859.6      915,6   1,013,1   1,104.0      961.6   1,124.2   1,215,9   1,364,0   1,390,3   1,563.0    5.5         3.3      17.9     16.7
trivet. dav. bank.                    198.7      246.4       238.8     290.1      309.6      371.1     369,9      448.9     461.9      365.5     576.5      667,1    2.0      1.2     23,8      22.0
Sawin. 4 eowtgage bank.               179.5      243.9       250.6      295.1     350.7      380,1     147.9      211.3     249.6      294.1      179.6     263.7    1.2      01 t     /         1,6
SSLAo                                 232.4       232.4      330.4      330.4     352.8      352.8     464.0      464.0      504.4     504.4      632.2     632.2    2,3      1.3 2I22          22.2
Subtotal                         6,635.9    9,985.1    9,125.2  14.10539  11,950.2  19,680.1  12,457,6  20,373.9  14,102.2  22,118,6  14,991.9  26,504.0   62.5    54,0             17,7      21.6
Total                            11,8164.5   21.393,1   15.595.7  29,274.0. 17,969.7  33.823.7  19,446.1  38.283,9  22.543,1  41,111.5  23.439,9  45,009.4  100.0   100.0           14.7      16.0
/a  The ecope of the Philippine Standard Industrial Clessification (PSIC) includes loan, purely for form production actltvitle.
Lb  Expanded scope include, loans for fare production, processing, marketing and other agriculture-related *etivitice.
sa Svinge and mortgage banks.
/i Actual Is 0.05!.
la  The Agricultural Credit Adalnistretion (ACA) is a nonbank government agency for the promotion of farer cooperativee a*d provision of credit to "all farmer. and land reform benefii^a-
rieo. The ACA va. mrSgd with the lAnd knk of the Philippines in 1982.
Sources UAC.



- 11                                   s ~~~~~~~~Tble 8
ARCULWTUUAL CREDIT MROJET
haricultural Loams Granted and 0utetandang. by Coamodity
(P milliom at current prices)
Compounded
Averge" Z shae   anmual nomlna1
1978                  1983             1978W 3       z!rmf rate ()
PSICt-   Spandedl/b    Y8IC    Expanded  PSIC   Expaned   RSIC zJp nd d
Loans Granted
Food Cmmditties
Rice                           1,758.9    3,191.7    1,884.3   5,524.5    8.3        8.6      1.4      11.6
Fruits and vegetables            511.3    1.834.6    1,963.4   4,459.0    7.4       6.4      30.9     19.4
Liveetock and poultry          1,484.9    2,892.0    4,270.1   7,663.0   13.8    10.0        23.5      21.5
SJiberies                        776.2    1.865.5    2,397.1   4,855.6    6.4        5.4     25.3     21.1
Others                           198.6       608.0      231.3      301.4    1.2      1.6      3.1    (13.1)
Subtotal                     4,729.9   10,391.8   10.746.2  22,803.5   37.1    32.0        17.8     17.0
Export and Conwreial crops
Coconut                        1,471.4    5,884.7    2,134.9  14,593.1    8.8    18.3         7.7     19.9
Sugar                          2,675.2    8.993.1    8,200.3  12,874.1   30.3    23.7        25.1      7.4
Tobacco                          200.6    1,678.2       849.4   3,042.6    2.0       4.7     33.5      12.6
Otbers                           393.1    1,801.9    1,086.4   3,314.0    3.2        4.3     22.5     13.0
Subtotal                     4,740.3   18,357.9   12,271.0  33,823.8   44.3    51.0        21.0      13.0
Forestry                         1,124.1    2,217.6    2,428.4   3.022.9    0.9        4.7     16.7       6.4
Others                           1,534.3    4,949.8       734.0   7,375.8    8.2    IL.O    (13.7)       8.3
Subtotal Ic                 12,128.6   35,917.1   26,179.6  67,026.0   97.9    99.2        16.6     13.3
SSLIAs /d                          257.8       257.8      779.0      779.0    2.1     0.8      24.8     24.8
Total                       12,386.4   36,174.9   26,958.6  67,805.0  100.0   100.0        16.8      13.4
Loana Oatstsnding
Food Consoditiss
Rica                           3,093.6    4.331.7    3,494.7   5,329.7   17.4    15.3         2.5      4.2
Fruits and vegetables            304.5      691.9    1,248.9   1,800.4    4.7       4.5      32.6     21.1
Livestock and poultry          1,792.4    2.069.5    4,743.4   5,967.8   17.8    12.1        21.5     27.2
.luberiec                        636.6      837.3    1,533.1   2,241.4    6.5       4.8      19.2     21.8
Others                           213.1      312.2       328.6   1,840.6    1.8      2.3       9.0     42.6
Subtotal                     6.040.2    8,242.6   11,348.7  17,179.9   48.2    39.0        13.4     15.8
Export and Coee rcial Crop.
Coconut                        1,129.0    2,207.9    1,649.6   6,309.1    7.8    11.0         7.9     23.4
sugar                          2,695.1    6,401.8    7,261.1  12,290.6   27.8    29.5        21.9     13.9
Tobacco                          159.6      889.9       148.4   1,334.0    0.8       3.5     (1.4)     8.4
Others                           276.8    1,109.5    1,319.2   2.216.6    3.8       3.8      36.6     14.8
Subtoteal                    4.260.5   10,609.1   10,378.3  22,150.3   40.2    47.8        19.5     15.9
Forestry                           455.0      570.2       629.3      767.5    3.5      2.3      6.7      6.1
Others                             826.4    1,738.8       451.4   4,279.5    5.8       8.6    (11.4)    19.7
Subtotal /c                 11,582.1   21.160.7   22,807.7  *4.377.2   97.7    98.8        14.5     16.0
SSLAs /d                           232.4       232.4      632.2     632.2    2.3       1.2     22.2     22.2
Total                       11,814.5   21,393.1   23.439.9  45.009.4  100.0   100.0        14.7     16.0
/a  lhe PhilLpplne Standard Industrial  Classification (PSIC) includes loans only for farm production
activities.
/b  Expanded included loans for farm production activities, processing, marketing ad other agriculture-
related actIvities.
/c  Inc]ludes unclsaIfled LJP loans.
/d No breakdown by commodity available.



-52-                                   Table 9
PILLIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Commercial Banks: Assets and Liabilities, 1981-84 /a
(P billion)
Dee 31, 1981   Dec 31, 1982   Dec 31, 1983   Jun 30, 1984
Amount    %    Amount    2    Amount    Z    Amount    %
Assets
Cash and due from banks          28.99   17.0   37.61   18.9   35.81   14.8   48.33   17.9
Loans (net)                     103.78   60.7  120.45   60.6  154.71   63.8  160.84   59.4
Investments                      16.95    9.9   20.92   10.5   21.69    8.9   25.71    9.5
Other assets                     21.19   12.4   19.88   10.0   30.18   12.5   35.78   13.2
Total                        170.91  100.0  198.86  100.0  242.39  100.0  270.66  100.0
Liabilities and Equity
Deposits                         80.28   47.0   97.69   49.1  120.51   49.7  123.07   45.5
Bills payable                    48.77   28.5   59.03   29.7   64.39   26.6   73.30   27.0
Deposit substitutes            12.76    7.5   12.22    6.2   12.02    5.0   12.04    4.4
Others                         36.01   21.0   46.81   23.5   52.37   21.6   61.26   22.6
Other liabilities                28.77   16.8   26.98   13.6   39.30   16.2   55.38   20.5
Capital accounts                 13.09    7.7   15.16    7.6   18.19    7.5   18.91    7.0
Total                        170.91  100.0  198.86  100.0  242.39  100.0  270.66  100.0
/a Including Government-owned PNB and LBP.
Source: Central Bank - Supervisory Reports Office and Department of Loans and Credit.



- 53 -                                Table 10
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Saving8 and !brtgage Banks: Assets and Liabilities, 1981-84
(P milllon)
Dec 31, 1981    Dec 31, 1982    Dec 31. 1983   Jun 30, 1984
Amount     x    Amount      %    Amount      x    Amount    S
Assets
Cash and due from banks       585.4   11.7    466.0    7.9    727.2    9.8    242        3.2
Loans (net)                 3,025.6   60.3  3,716.0   63.4  4,757.4   64.4  5,103    68.8
Investments                   760.5   15.1    876.3   14.9    927.4   12.5    888    12.1
Other assets                  648.7   12.9    811.9   13.8    979.3   13.3  1,181    15.9
Total                    5,020.2  100.0  5,870.2  100.0. 7,391.3  100.0  7,414   100.0
Liabilities and Equity
Deposits                    4,305.2   85.8  5,089.1   86.7  5,952.7   80.5  5,888    79.4
Bills payable                 119.4    2.4      87.1    1.5    330.9    4.5    277       3.7
Other liabilities             247.4    4.9    239.6    4.1    542.5    '.3    654         8.9
Capital accounts              348.2    6.9    454.4    7.7    565.2    7.7    595        8.0
Total                    5,020.2  100.0  5,870.2  100.0  7,391.3  100.0  7,414   100.0
Source:  Central Bank - Supervisory Reports Office and Department of Loans and Credit.



- 54              ~              Table 11
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Private Development Banks: Assets and Liabilities, 1981-83
(P million)
Dec 31, 1981       Dec 31, 1982       Dee 31, 1983
Amount      Z      Amount      z       mount      Z
Assets
Cash and due from banks       249.5    9.5       348.3    9.5       452.1    9.8
Loan portfolio (net)        1,743.1   66.7    2,405.9   65.3    3,077.0   66.7
Investments                   345.9   13.2       505.1   13.7       502.8   10.9
Other assets                  277.5   10.6       426.2   11.6       581.3   12.6
Total                   2,616.0  100.0    3,685.5  100.0    4,613.2  100.0
Liabilities
Deposits                    1,202.6   46.0    2,019.2   54.8    2,472.6   53.6
Borrowings                   842.3   32.2        923.8   25.0    1,222.6   26.5
Other liabilities             108.7    4.1       211.5    5.8       281.4    6.1
Capital accounts             462.4   17.7        531.0   14.4       636.6   13.8
Total                   2,616.0  100.0    3,685.5  100.0    4,613.2  100.0



Table 12
-55-
PRILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Stock Savings and Loan Associations: Assets and Liabilities, 1981-84
(t million)
Dec 31, 1981   Dec 31, 1982   Dec 31, 1983   Jun 30, 1984
Amount    Z    Amount    Z    Amount    X    Amount    X
Assets
Cash and due from banks          296    14.4    433    14.4    368       8.9    337    11.7
Loans (net)                    1,320    64.1  1,847    61.7  2,933    71.2  1,888    65.5
Investments                      244    11.8    399    13.3    291       7.1    269      9.3
Other assets                     199      9.7    319    10.6    526    12.8    389    13.5
Total                       2,059   100.0  2,998   100.0  4,118   100.0  2,883   100.0
Liabilities and Equity
Deposits                       1,467    71.2  2,187    72.9  2,761    67.1  1,867    64.8
Bills payable                    103      5.0    131      4.4    248     6.0    153      5.3
Other liabilities                172      8.4    194      6.5    506    12.3    355    12.3
Capital accounts                 317,   15.4    486    16.2    603    14.6    508    17.6
Total                       2,059   100.0  2,998   100.0  4,118   100.0  2,883   100.0
Source:  Central Bank - Supervisory Reports Office and Department of Loans and Credit.



- 56 -                           Table 13
PRILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rural Banking System:  Financial Condition, 1979-83
m(P  illion)
1979     1980     1981      1982     1983
Total Resources                       4,921    5,524    6,490    7,978    9,324
Loans and discounts (net)           4,075    4,573    5,347    6,510    7,472
Cash and due from banks               417       469      548       696      897
Investments                            114      127      171       253      326
Other assets                          315       355      424       519      483
Deposit Liabilities                    1,584    1,699    2,053    2,572    3,127
Demand                                  27       14       25        21       24
Savings                             1,162    1,246    1,450    1,753    2,040
Time                                  395       439      5/8       798    1,064
Borrowings                            2,400    2,797    3,229    3,930    4,421
STD-special financing                 264       284      311       356      396
Bills/loans payable                 2,136    2,513    2,918    3,574    4,025
Capital Accounts                        708       755      884    1,012       886
Paid-up common stock                   366      405      492       579      724
Paid-up preferred stock                85        94      109       131      158
Retained earnings                      145      164      203       221      256
Undivided profits                      112       92       80        81       75
Gross Income                             432      555      647       784      943
Interest on loans                     325       416      492       589      713
Commission/service charge               62       77       77        95      108
Other earnings                         45        62       78       100      122
Total Expenses                           350      474      556       689      847
Interest on deposit liabilities       106       157      189       232      292
Interest on borrowed funds             38        43       53       100      143
Salaries/compensation                  99       149      171       193      218
Other operating expenses               107      125      143       164      194
Net Income                                82       81       91        95       96
Net income ratio (X)                    19       15       14        12       10
Net income to average paid-up
capital (x)                          20        17       16        14       11
Net income to combined capital
accounts (2)                          12       11       11         9        9
Net income to gross assets (X)         1.7      1.5      1.4       1.2      1.0
Source:  Central Bank of the Philippines, 1983 Annual Report on the Rural
Banking System.



_ 57 -                              Table 14
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Bank Rediscounting of Agricultural
Subloans by Institution, 1983/84
(At current prices7
Amount (P mln)               Negative grwth rates (Z)
1st sem.  2nd sea.  1st sem.    1st sem. 1983-  2nd sem. 1983-
1983      1983       1984      1st sem. 1984  lt sem. 1984
Government Banks
PNB                 1,558     1,746        611          (60.8)           (65.0)
DBP                    33        41          0          (99.8)           (99.8)
LBP                   598       221          4          (99.4)           (98.4)
Subtotal        2,189      2,008       615           (71.9)           (69.4)
Private Banks
Private commer-
cial banks       4,662      2,672        335          (92.8)           (87.5)
Thrift banks           68        46         11          (84.1)           (76.4)
Rural banks         1,627     1,573        799          (50.9)           (49.1)
Subtotal        6,356      4,291     1,145           (82.0)           (73.3)
Total           8,545      6,299     1,760           (79.4)           (72.1)



- 58 -                           Table 15
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
-Estimated Disbursements
ZUS$ million)
IBRD                       Disbursements                  Disbursement profile
fiscal     Seasonal   Medium- & long-term              /a  for all agricultural
year &   production  credit & technical   Cumulative        projects in the
semester    credit         assistance        Amount   Z      Philippines  (t)
1986
1st          8                3              11/b   11              0
2nd         30                5              46      46              3
1987
--lS-t          5                6              57     57              7
2nd        2.5              6.5              66      66             13
1988
_st          -                7              73      73            19
2nd          -                7              80      80            27
1989
=St          -                8              88      88             35
2nd          -                8              96     96             44
1990
_st          -                4             100    100             53
2nd                                                                62
1991
_s t                                                               71
2nd                                                                78
1992
1st                                                                 85
2nd                                                                90
1993
s t                                                                   94
2nd                                                                98
1994
--lS-t                                                               100
/a Seasonal production credit has not been funded by previous projects but
disbursements are expected to proceed rapidly in view of the Philippines'
critical need for sucb resources and the proposed front loading of the
Bank's disbursement rate. Estimated disbursements under medium- and long-
term credit are less than past annual disbursements averaging US$18 mil-
lion under all Bank-assisted credit projects in the Philippines during
1979-84 (Annex 2, para. 3).
/b Includes disbursements under Special Account.



-59 -ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 9
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PoLicy and Institutional Reforms
1.        The following gives details of four of the more important policy and
institutional reforms that would be carried out by CB in conjunction with the
project. These concern deregulation of interest rates on CB-rediscounted
subloans, phasing out of government subsidies on agricultural credit, review
of banking services in rural areas, and review of CB's rediscounting policies
and the related arrearages problem.
Deregulation of Interest Rates
2.        Interest rates on project-assisteu loans and subloans will be
market-oriented and will have the following major features: (a) subloan
interest rates will be determined by banks participating in the project, and
would no longer be prescribed by CB; (b) interest spreads on subloans wiLl be
determined by banks on the basis of their individual average intermediation
costs for their entire loan portfolio as well as the characteristics of the
individual subloans; and (c) CB's interest rates on project funds onlent to
retail banks will not be lower than (i) the weighted average cost of the
banking system's savings and time deposits, including the cost of mobilizing
such deposits; and (ii) CB's break-even interest rate on project operations,
i.e., the rate which fully covers its cost of borrowing ALF funds from the
World Bank and the domestic bond market, an element of foreign exchange risk,
and project-related costs. The interest rate structure under the project
would thus be free of any subsidies, in contrast to previous CB and Bank-
assisted agricultural credit programs.
3.        Objectives of Interest Rate Reform.  In the past, easy availability
of CB's cheap rediscounting facility discouraged the banking system's deposit
mobilization effort. The rural banking system now draws almost 50Z of its
resources from CB, which means that rural banks operate more as retail credit
outlets than as effective intermediaries between rural savers and borrowers.
Even the Government-owned PNB, LBP and DBP and major commercial banks have
been heavily dependent on CB's low-cost resources for agricultural lending.
Apart from the initial provision of low-cost resources, CB also has been car-
rying heavy arrearages against its low-cost loans to retail banks. Realign-
ment of interest rates on CB's rediscounting facilities is thus necessary as
an important step toward encouraging greater deposit mobilization. In
addition, flexible spreads on bank subloans would increase the profitability
of financial intermediation, and contribute to structural expansion of the
banking system, greater efficiency in resource allocation, and increased
lending to agriculture.
4.        In February 1984, CB generally moved toward rediscounting rates
which made the cost of all types of funds provided by CB to retail banks
dependent on the Manila Reference Rates (MRRs) but it still indirectly



- 60 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
regulated the ultimate interest rates by prescribing the spreads to be set by
the retail banks on CB-assisted subloans. Further, MRRs represented the
weighted average interest rate paid by the ten financial institutions with the
largest volume of deposit substitutes on 90, 180 and 270 day placements. As
such, they do not necessarily reflect the subloan interest rates charged by
all segments of the banking system on the total loan portfolio. CB has
therefore agreed that the MRR will not be used as a determinant of the market-
oriented interest rate for project-assisted subloans. The concept that
project-assisted subloans should carry market-oriented interest rates based on
the principles stated above has been approved by CB's Monetary Board.
5.        During project implementation, the interest rate structure would be
subject to a continuing review since questions are likely to arise, such as:
whether CB intervention through its open market operations in any way
contributes to distortions in market-oriented interest rates; are market-
determined interest rates consistent with the rates of return on investments
financed; and whether the banking system tends to retain excessive spreads
especially in situations where competition is absent. These aspects will be
monitored by CB during project implementation.
6.        During 1984, real interest rates turned significantly negative
because the inflation rate was as high as soZ (see following table). The
ongoing economic stabilization program supported by an International Monetary
Fund Standby Agreement is expected to keep domestic inflation at a reasonable
level and the inflation rate is expected to show a downward trend as
follows: 1985-20Z; 1986-15%; 1987 and 1988-10%. Over a period, interest
rates on both deposits and loans are expected to be positive. The currently
high interest rates (30-35Z) on subloans are also expected to decline as the
economy recovers and inflation decreases.



ANNEX 1
-61 -                            Page 3 of 9
NOMINAL AND REAL INTEREST RATES ON DEPOSITS AND LOANS
Savings and
time deposits                  Range of interest rates on
(P billion)    Savings deposits       Time deposits              Loans   /a
(at current    Nominal      Real    Nominal       Real      Nominal  Real
Year      prices)        (%)      (Z) /b    (X)            (X)lc     (X)       () /c
1980       77          9-9.5       9-9.5    14-14.5    14-14.5        15-18      15-18
1981       86           8-12/c    (5)-(1)   10.5-18       2.5-5       17-18        4-5
1982      105           8-12      (1)-(3)   10.5-18        1.5-9      17-21       8-12
1983      125           8-12      (l)-(3)      13-21       4-12       18-22       9-13
1984      142          10-15    (40)-(35)      15-22   (35)-(28)      21-32  (29)-(18)
(Sept)
/a   Relates to collaterized loans.  Interest rates on noncollateralized loans
are usually higher by 2-3 percentage points.
lb   Deflated by changes in CPI, 1980=100.  Figures in parentheses are
negative.
/c   Interest ceilings on deposits, and subloans above two years were lifted
in January 1981.  Interest rates on short-term subloans were deregulated
in January 1983, except for loans rediscounted with CB.
Phasing Out of Government Subsidies on Agricultural Credit
7.        CB and Government will carry out a plan to phase out subsidies by
realigning interest rates on credit programs. Subborrowers enjoy an interest
subsidy ranging from 2.6% to about 30%, depending on the source of funds. The
interest subsidy on the Central Bank's Special Time Deposits placed with
retail banks to fund government-sponsored credit programs is particularly
substantial relative to the rediscounting rates (Table 1). Government
agencies/institutions, including PNB, DBP and the Minl7try of Human
Settlements, also administer special credit programs - most of which are
eligible for CB rediscounting. The low interest rates charged by these
institutions indicate that large interest subsidies are currently being
enjoyed by subborrowers. In addition, CB holds about P 700 million allocated
from the government budget for special financing programs, among other things,
for disbursement at subsidised interest rates (Table 2). The government will
review these programs to determine which of the programs justify subsidy. At
negotiations an assurance was obtained from CB and the government that the
realignment of interest rates will be completed in accordance with the
following schedule.
1I   Masagana 99, Maisagana, Food Quedan Financing Scheme, special agricul-
tural relief fund (SARF), Pagkain Nv Bayan program (rice on government
lands) and KKK programs. Repayment performance under most of these
programs is poor, involving heavy costs to the public sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
-                                - ~~~~~~~~~~~62-
PHASING OUT OF SUBSIDIES
Credit Programs                              Phase-Out Period
a. Credit funded from CB's own                     All new lending to be at
resources                                       market-oriented rates,
effective immediately.
b. Credit funded from government and               Government and CB to estab-
other resources but channelled through          lish criteria by December
CB:                                             31, 1985 to determine which
(i)  programs listed in Table 2 to this        of the programs under (b) and
Annex                                     (c) justify subsidy.
(ii) other programs
Subsidies on credit orograms
included in (b) (i), which
do not-meet criteria for
exceptions, to be phased out
by December 31, 1986.
c. Credit funded and administered by-              Subsidies on (b) (ii) and
Government outside the banking                  tc) wdhich do not meet estab-
system                                          lished criteria to be phased
out in accordance with a
program and timetable to be
agreed with the Bank by
March 31, 1986.
Review of Banking Services in Rural Areas
8.        CB would carry out a comprehensive review of the status of banking
services available in rural areas; constraints to future growth of such-
services; options available for rehabilitation; consolidation and exparsion of
the rural banking system; and the role of commercial and government banks in
expanding their rural services.
9.        The proposed review will examine the following specific points:
(a) the rationale, performance, problems and adequacy of present banking
organizations in rural areas, particuLarly unit, branch and group banking
systems following the traditional classification (commercial, thrift, rural
and government banks) by provinces; (b) growth and development of consolida-
tions, mergers, correspondent banking and holding company relationships and
their likely implications to, and impact on, the availability of efficient
rural banking services; (c) monetary, regulatory and other legal provisions
and their role in promoting or restricting the establishment of branch and
unit banks and their effects an competition; and (d) the nature and scope of



''--   '                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNE  1
- 63 -                          Page 5 of 9
banking services needed for countrywide agricultural development and the
capability of the present system to meet these needs. Additionally, the
review would address the following institution-specific matters: (a) Organ-
izational structure. Composition, structure and staff expertise available to
meet the demand for specific banking services; (b) Banking Services
Rendered. Nature, scope and limitations on the type of services offered;
(c) Policies and Procedures.  Internal management policies and procedures
adopted in the performance of various banking transactions; (d) Financial
Performance and Other Results of Operations; and (e) Regulatory Aspects.
Impact of existing monetary policies, banking laws, rules and regulations in
relation to lending and investments in subsidiary undertakings, deposit
mobilization and access to other private and government sources of funds.
10.       Terms of Reference.  The study on banking services in ruraL areas
would be funded by the proposed project and carried out under the following
general terms of reference which were reviewed and agreed to during
negotiations:
(a) review the status of banking services in rural areas;
(b) identify various constraints to future growth in such services;
(c) recommend policy measures to rectify operational inefficiencies of
bank branches and unit banks, including strategies for consolidation
and rehabilitation of financially distressed banks;
(d) review the performance of selected consolidated rural banks and
explore possibilities for the expansion of banking services in rural
areas;
(e) evaluate the performance and contribution of banks to rural
deveLopment financing; and
(f) analyze and recommend alternative strategies in the monetary,
reguLatory, and branching policies affecting the delivery of banking
services in the rural areas.
Review of CB's Rediscounting Policies and the Arrearages Problem
11.       CB would carry out a comprehensive review of its rediscountiiig
policies and procedures and matters related to the arrearages problem during
the first year of the proposed project.
12.       Rediscounting Arrearages.  As of October 3, 1984, rediscounting
arrearages totalled P 5.2 billion, of which P 2.4 bilLion pertained to rural
banks, P 1.7 billion to commercial banks and P 0.4 billion to thrift banks.
While delinquent accounts of commercial and thrift banks represented recent
emergency loans/special credit accommodations, about 64X or P 1.6 billion of
rural banks' past due accounts related to supervised credit and about 36% or
P 0.8 billion to nonsupervised credit.
13.       The status of rural bankst arrearages to CB is as follows:



-64 - .-xi
_ 64  ~~             ~~~ ANNEX i
Page 6 of 9
Amount
(P billion)
Arrearages of rural banks under receivership/voluntary
dissolution/liquidation/rehabilitation                        0.19
Arrearages under CB-approved plans for repayment                 0.84
Past due for more than a year                                   0.59
Past due for over a month to a year                             0.74
Past due for a month or less                                    0.01
Total                                                    P 2.37
14.       In the case of rural banks, three types of rehabilitation measures
are presently available, as follows:
(a) Restructuring. Rural banks adversely affected by natural calamities
are allowed to restructure their corresponding liabilities to CB for
an initial period of one year, at the rate of interest on the
original loans. In deserving cases, a second and third restructur-
ing, up to three years, is allowed.
(b) Plan of Payment. Rural banks whose rediscounting arrearages are not
caused by natural calamities are allowed to enter into a plan of
payment for the gradual Liquidation of their past dues with CB over
a period of from six months to three years. Rural banks covered by
this plan are allowed limited rediscounting of their eligible papers
to the extent of 80% for supervised credit or 60% for nonsupervised
credit.
(c) Roll-Over of CB Loans. The roll-over of CB loans, backed by
corresponding renewal of subloans, is authorized by CB's Governor on
a case-by-case basis if nonpayment of dues by subborrowers is
considered to be for reasons beyond their control. This scheme was
used in only a few cases during 1983.
15.       Major causes for subloan arrearages include:  reluctance to repay
the low-cost credit; delays in subproject completion; inadequate appraisal;
natural calamities such as droughts and typhoons; and willful defaults by
subborrowers who perceive little reason to repay government-sponsored credit.
Financial institutions have developed standard procedures for subloan recovery
which are used as appropriate. These include: issue of lawyers' rotices to
subborrowers, followed by court proceedings; subloan collection through
government extension workers, on a commission basis; and market tie-ups with
purchasing agencies. To minimize the retail lending banks' default risks,
Government also operated a loan guarantee scheme which is being phased out in
favor of crop insurance, which is currently restricted to rice and corn. CB
stops access to new funds when retail banks carry subloan arrearages in excess



-65 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
of 25% of outstanding loans (for some government programs, this limit is
extended to 50%) and when they default under CB loans. While the existing
measures are important, it is just as crucial to change the perception of
agricultural lending as a government 'dole out.' The issue is, however, a
difficult one as it is wrapped in a number of political and social issues
aggravated by the current difficult economic situation. Sectorwide arrears
reduction will depend on a strong demonstration of political will.
16.       The project would support interest rate reforms and developing
systems, procedures and policies for continuing institutional review by CB
rather than relying merely on current procedures for rescheduling of arrears
subloans. Toward this objective, CB would evaluate the content and the
performance of its various policies with regard to subloan collection and, as
necessary, reformulate them. The study would be financed under the proposed
project, and the terms of reference, to be agreed at negotiations, would focus
on the following:
(a) Plan of Payment. The plan of payment arrangements, now approved
mainly on the basis of a desk review, should be used as a tool to
require a rural bank to undertake a broader institutional develop-
ment program, including exploring options for possible merger and
consolidation.
(b) Restructuring. Some conditions of restructuring of subloans, such
as requiring a prior payment of 30% of the principal plus accrued
interest due thereon, often proves counterproductive if a
subborrower is genuinely affected by circumstances which warrant
simple extension of the subloan period. Similarly, exemption froui
payment of liquidated damages due to nonpayment of CB loans may not
be warranted in all cases. Further, restruc.uring of subloans or CB
loans does not now involve a qualitative assessment of the concerned
bank's total loan portfolio to determine whether subborrowers could
be financially rehabilitated through extension of the loan period or
provision of additional working capital. An objective assessment of
the overall business of the rural bank at the time of restructuring
would perhaps lead to consideration of consolidating and merging the
bank with another bank. Also, some discretion could be given to
rural banks (other banks, where applicable) for restructuring of
subloans without the intervention of CB staff.
(c)  Rehabilitation Schemes.  Past rehabilitation schemes for rural and
thrift banks suffered from practical difficulties especially with
regard to the capital build-up program. Current laws do not permit
any individual or family to hold more than 20% of the common stock
of a rural bank, generally limiting the scope for further contribu-
tions by existing owners. Managements of rural banks, mostly
family-owned, are usually unwilling to admit any outsiders.
Moreover, market response to rural bank stocks is usually limited
because dividend rates tend to be far lower than the return on
alternative investments. The existing policies on capitalization of
rural banks should, therefore, be reviewed.



-66-                         ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
(d) Rediscounting Privileges. CB rediscounting privileges tend to be
far too liberal: a rural bank can borrow up to 5001 of its net
worth (as against 1001 for other types of banks) and 300% of its
deposits. Sectorwide, CB's share in the rural banks' total
resources tends to be as high as 50%. Rediscounting privileges are
often restored in spite of serious problems with the quality of the
loan portfolio. CB's rediscounting policies should be increasingly
geared to promote deposit mobilization and agricultural lending
using the rural based banks' own funds, to change the psychology
that government funds need not be repaid. The focus of CB's redis-
counting policies should be to ensure that its funds do not depress
the rural banks' savings mobilization effort, while penalizing them
for undue reliance on CB funds. CB should consider a system by
which the lower the quantum of rediscounted subloans, the lower
would be the rediscount rate that is charged. Thus, CB would
provide refinance up to a certain amount (say 25% of deposits) at
the normal rate and for rediscounting in excess of this amount, CB
would add a suitable premium. To contain the problem of arrearages,
the rural banks' reliance on CB funds must be reduced especially
because arrearages on subloans extended by rural banks from their
deposit resources are far Lower than under subloans funded by CB.
Ce)  Aging of Arrearages.  The past due norm used as the basis for dis-
qualifying a bank for CB rediscounting privileges does not
necessarily ensure an improvement in subloan collections by the
retail lending banks. In fact, with the expanding loan portfolio, a
borrowing bank's past dues could continue to grow in absolute
amounts, while remaining within CB's past due norm. The past due
ratio also does not show aging of arrearages, and without this
information the significance of arrearages cannot be measured. The
current reporting systems prescribed by CB obtain no information on
the aging of arrears (beyond six months and above) from the borrow-
ing banks, including rural banks. CB should, therefore, develop a
suitable reporting system on past dues, including the aging of
arrearages, for regulating access of rural and other banks to
rediscounting facilities.
(f) Write Offs. Subloans which are not likely to be collected need to
be identified on a bank-by-bank basis, and each bank should be
required to prepare a realistic program to write off the
uncollectables from the profits. This plan should be updated
annually and monitored through CB examinations and annual audit.
(g) Review of CB/IBRD Subloans. Several subprojects financed under past
CB/IBRD projects need to be rehabilitated or assisted by additional
investment funds or working capital. CB should monitor this on a
bank-by-bank basis and ensure that the subproiects are rehabilitated
and coercive action is initiated in case of willful defaults. CB
should ensure the credibility of the subloan foreclosure option.
(h) Interest on Past Dues. Interest rates on past due loans including
liquidated damages are far lover than the prevailing market rates.



- 67 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 9
Subborrowers and rural banks therefore have no incentives to repay
their loans. CB should, therefore, increase the interest on past
dues, to the extent admissible by law, at the time of restructuring
of subloans.



r.
-68-                                   ANEX 1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Interest Subsidy to Retail Banks and Subborrowers on CB Rediscounts
A. Interest Subsidy to Retail Banks on Special Time Deposits (STDs)
Interest rate on
Interest                 alternative source                Interest subsidy
on STDs                    of bank funds                 to retail banks (2-1) /d
(1)                           (2)                               (3)
3.0%                         21.5%                                18.5%
4.0%                         21.5%                                17.5Z
5.0%                         21.5%                                16.5%
6.0%                         21.5%                                15.5%
7 0%                         21.5%                                14.5%
B. Interest Subsidy to Subborrowers
Range of interest
rates prescribed on
government-sponsored    Prevailing interest rates           Interest subsidy
credit programs          on other subloans /a         to subborrowers (2-1)/d
(1)                         (2)                            (3)
8% /b                       37.9%                          29.9%
9% 7;                       37.9Z                          28.9%
loZ 7;                       37.9%                          27.9%
12% 7T                       37.9%                          25.9%
14% 7;                       37.9%                          23.9%
15Z 7T                       37.9%                          22.9%
16Z 7;                       37.9%                          21.9%
31.4% 7;                       37.9%                           6.5%
35.4Z _;                       37.9%                           2.6%
/a  Weighted average for all maturities for November 1984.
7; Represents CB prescribed lending rate on funds lent to retail banks under
STD.
/c  Represents prescribed onlending rate on CB funds.
7T  Subsidies appear especially high now because prevailing interest rates are
currently very high.
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines.



- 69 -                        ANNEY 1
69 -                 ~~~~~Table 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Undrawn Amounts from Special Financing Programs
(November 30, 1984)
Program titLe                                             (In Peso mln)
Short-term
1.   Integrated Rural Financing                                    189.5
2.   IAF - PVTA                                                      6.4
3.   ALF - NGA                                                      10.3
4.   ALF - NGA (BPW)                                                 4.9
5.   ALF - PTA                                                         .001
6.   ALF - MEC                                                       3.7
7.   ALF - Philippine Cotton Corporation                             3.2
8.   Accelerated Rice Production Fund                               30.6
9.   CIF - Rural Cooperative Bank Fund                                7.5
10.  CB - Bureau of Animal Industry                                 29.5
11.  Calamity Rehabilitation Fund                                      .001
12.  Loan Guarantee Fund                                             2.6
13.  Bureau of Cooperative Development (CMP)                        36.8
14.  Cottage Industry Guarantee Loan Fund                           24.8
15.  Livestock Loan Trust Fund                                       6.6
16.  Special Agricultural Rehabilitation Fund (SARF)                45.9
17.  SARF - KASAKA - Out of School Youth                             5.7
18.  SARF - LIME                                                      .3
19.  Yellow Corn Fund (Ministry of Agriculture and Food)           104.9
Subtotal                                                    513.2
Medium- and Long-Term
20.  Small Fishermen's Special Credit Fund - NFAC                    1.4
21.  Agricultural Loan Fund - NFAC                                   3.6
22.  AGLF - kFAC                                                    17.4
23.  RA : 6390                                                      25.1
24.  LC - Bureau of Treasury                                        28.4
25.  Fisheries Loan and Guarantee Fund                             109.9
26.  Palawan Integrated Agricultural Development Fund                2.0
27.  MAR - Central Project Management Unit                            1.4
28.  Philippine Aquaculture Development Fund                         4.5
Subtotal                                                      193.7
Total                                                         706.9
Source: CB.



-    -                           ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Indicative Project Lending Program
1.        The project would fund short-term seasonal production and medium-
and long-term credit for investments in agriculture and agriculture-cum-
processing. A brief analysis of the prospective investment possibilities in
different subsectors is presented below. An indicative lending program
derived from the analysis is given in Appendix 1. Since actual lending would
be determined by market forces, the figures in Appendix 1 are only indicative
and represent neither targets nor ceilings.
Seasonal Production Credit
2.        The project would focus on alleviating the current serious need for
production credit by funding CB'b incremental short-term credit to retail
banks. The supply of institutional credit for farm production decreased from
about P 15-16 billion during 1981-82 (at 1978 prices) to about P 13 billion in
1983 and have further declined during 1984 because of the liquidity problems
of retail banks and government policies to reduce excess liquidity in the
economy, which affected even priorit7 sectors like agriculture. In the past,
informal sources substantially met the short-term production credit needs of
agriculture, but during 1983-84 even this source has dried up because of the
informal lenders' (tracers, and machinery dealers) reduced access to the
banking system and a serious loss in private sector savings due to high rates
of inflation. Project fundirg of incremental CB short-term credit would be
made with reference to a benchmark to be mutually agreed upon by CB and the
Bank. The bench mark will take into account the average amount of CB
short-term credit disbursed during CY83 and CY84 (Table 1 below) and the
contractionary trend of the economy and the constraints of the ongoing
stabilization program.



- 71 -                        ANUEK 2
Page 2 of 7
Table 1:  CB REDISCOUNTS OF SEASONAL PRODUCTION CREDIT
FOR ACU CULTURE AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
(P billion)
1981        1982       1983       June 30,
1984
Supervised Credit
Commercial banks                   0.2         0.2        0.1          /a
Thrift banks                        -           -          -            -
Rural banks                        1.5          1.8       1.8          0.4
Subtotal                    1.7          2.0        1.9         0.4
Nonsupervised Credit
Commercial banks                   8.3         5.9        2.7          1.3
Thrift banks                        -          0.1        0.1          /a
Rural banks                        1.2         1.6        1.7          0.4
Subtotal                    9.5          7.6       4.5 /b       1.7
Total                      11.2          9.6        6.4         2.1 /b
Total (at 1978 prices)      8.9          7.2        4.1         0.88
/a   Negligible.
7-  Aggregate disbursements during CY84 estimated at P 2.7 billion.
Medium- and Long-Term Credit
3.        Annual medium- and long-term lending of banks participating in the
project is assumed to average US$20 million and the Bank loan disbursement at
US$12 million, which is substantially below the average of US$18 million
disbursed under past Bank-assisted projects implemented through DBP, LBP and
the rural banks (Table 2).



-72-                            ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
Table 2: BANK LOAN DISBURSEMENTS UNDER PAST CREDIT PROJECTS
(US$ million)
Loan                       FY
Project                        No.    1979   1980   1981   1982    1983    1984
Grain Processing I              720     1.6    1.8    0.3       -       -        -
Fisheries II                   1270     2.4    5.3    2.2      -        -        -
Livestock II                   1225     2.5    3.4    5.4    0.02       -        -
Grain Processing II            1269     0.3    1.5    3.3    3.2       2.8      0.4
Rural Credit IV                1399     9.5    3.5    4.9    4.7       6.6     4.9
Smallholder Tree Farming       1506      -      0.5    1.2    0.5      0.9     0.5
Small Farmer Development      1646       -      1.2    4.4    1.0      4.5     2.4
Third Livestock &
Fisheries Credit            1894       -      -      4.5    7.8      6.1     1.8
Total                                16.3   17.2   26.2   17.2    20.9    10.0
4.        During 1984, the disbursement rate slowed sharply due to suspension
of lending under DBP-based projects because of DBP's financial problems,
completion of Rural Credit Project IV in June 1984, and the reduced pace of
disbursements under the LBP project (Ln. 1646) due to subloan arrearages and
economic uncertainties in the country. Medium- and long-term loans (largely
representing roll-overs of short-term loans) granted by the banking system for
farm production activities during 1979-83 are estimated by TBAC to average
about P 3.8 billion (US$190 million) at current prices and about P 2.8 billion
(US$140 million) at 1978 prices (Table 3). During 1983, the share of commer-
cial banks in medium- and long-term credit was P 5.5 billion (90% of the
total); followed by thrift bank!, P 107 million (2%); and government special-
ized banks, P 106 million (2Z).' Under earlie- Bank-assisted projects, com-
mercial banks were not included as lending cheanels, and CB had no permanent
rediscounting facility for medium- and long-term loans. Given the project's
market-oriented lending terms, a substantial participation of commercial banks
in project lending is expected.
1/   Source:  TBAC.



ANNEX 2
- 73 -                       Page 4 of 7
Table 3: MEDIUM- AND LONC-TERM LOANS CRANTED BY THE
BANKING SYSTEM, 1978-83 /a
(P billion)
CY                    At cdrrent prices                   At 1978 prices /b
1979                            1.9                                 1.7
1980                            1.9                                1.6
1981                            3.5                                2.8
1982                            5.5                                4.1
1983                            6.2                                4.0
Annual average                   3.8                                2.8
/a   For farm production activities.
/b   Deflated by producer price index for agricultural products, 1978 = 100.
5.        Demand for medium- and long-term credit is expected in major sub-
sectors such as poultry, livestock and fishery development; plantation crops;
agro-processing and post-harvest facilities; and selective farm mechanization.
The investment possibilities in these subsectors are briefly discussed below.
6.        Poultry, Livestock and Fishery Production.  Current per capita beef
consumption in the country is about 2 kg p.a. and the projected deficit in
domestic production by 1990 is expected to reach 186,000 metric tons (nt).
The project is expected to finance 60 medium size ranching operations, keeping
about 60 cows each, and about 300 feedlots with a capacity of 50 head of
fattening stock each, in addition to selected smallholder cattle fattening
operations. About 75Z of the total cattle population in the country (1.9
million) is raised and fattened by small farmers on the basis of farm-grown
fodder and crop byproducts supplemented by commercial feed.
7.        Demand for pork already exceeds the supply, and the supply gap is
expected to grow from 37 million mt in 1984 to 76 million mt in 1987. The
project is likely to fund some 1,200 subprojects with varying sow level
capacity. Swine production in the Philippines is, however, vulnerable to
price fluctuations in commercial feeds which include imported corn and soya
beans. Government is actively supporting local corn production, which would
help stabilize the feed prices, and has also deregulated pork prices.
8.        Poultry production is rapidly shifting to larger commzercial
producers with the advantage of high economies of scale and modern production
technology. With profit margins usually very small and price risks high, new
enterprises normally produce under contracts with feed suppliers who guarantee
a minimum return. The project includes credit for both smaller and larger
broiler and egg producing units in a position to mobilize technical support
and ensure high production efficiencies.



74 -ANNEX2
Page 5 of 7
9.        The fishery sector has received funding under four Bank-financed
Rural Credit Projects (Lns. 432, 607, 1010 and 1399-PH) and three fisheries
credit projects (Lns. 891, 1270 and 1894-PH). As a result, fishpond
development expanded from 176,000 ha in 1977 to 208,000 ha in 1981. There is
now only a limited scope for expansion, but a large need for rehabilitation.
The industry faces several major problems, including high fuel prices, diffi-
cult acquisition of fertilizers, over-expLoitation of traditional fishing
areas and inefficiencies in the marketing system. The Bureau of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (BFAR) in coordination with other agencies has drawn up a
program to overcome these problems and increase fish production; more emphasis
is being placed on the development of inland fisheries. While imports of fish
and fish products were valued at P 288 million in 1981, fish exports (mostly
shrimp and tuna) amounted to P 1,251 million. About 90% of the fish supply
now comes from commercial and municipal fishing, but this pattern is likely to
change in the future with the emphasis of BFAR on inland fishery develop-
ment. The project would support this initiative by funding investments for
the sector, including about 280 brackish-water fishponds of 5-50 ha each, some
40 fishpens for fresh-water lakes, 10 fishing boats for off-shore use, and
about 80 fish processing facilities for drying and smoking.
10.       Plantation Crops.  Plantation crops may attract about a third of
project lending. About 90X of plantation crop investment is expected to go to
rubber /citrus, banana and ipil-ipil, with the rest going to abaca and
mango.-
11.       Banana production is important in the Philippines, occupying more
than 60% of the area devoted to fruit crops and contributing substantially to
export earnings (US$153 million in 1982). MAF expects an expansion in the
banana area of about 77,000 ha over the next three years, of which about
3,800 ha are expected to be funded by the project. Rehabilitation of banana
plantations on another 5,500 ha (or 22 of existing plantations) is also
expected to be financed.
12.       Rubber covers about 53,700 ha, with a latex production of 54,400
tons, or about 1 ton/ha. Exports of natural rubber reached 10,800 tons in
1981 and are expected to grow at 5% annually. Local consumption (production
plus imports less exports) at 65,500 tons (1982) is expected to increase to
105,500 tons by 1987. By MAF estimates, the area planted to rubber would
increase by 66Z to 95,000 ha by 1987, and the project is expected to finance
rubber development on some 7,400 ha.
13.       Crowing use of abaca as pulp for high-quality paper and as raw
material for handicrafts has significantly increased demand, while technology
2/   The estimated loan demand for plantation crops does not explicity include
the needs of the coconut subsector, particularly of the larger and
corporate borrowers. Since the proposed Bank loan for the Coconut
Development Project, which has already been appraised, is directed toward
smaller borrowers, the proposed credit project should be able to meet the
credit needs of the larger borrowers.



ANNEX 2
5-                          Page 6 of 7
improvements have improved the profitability of abaca production. Project
lending is expected to finance about 800 ha of new plantations and rehabili-
tation of 900 ha of existing plantations.
14.       A number of processed mango products such as juice, concentrates,
etc. have been developed to serve the export markets. To keep up with growing
local and export demand, about 18,000 ha of mango are likely to be planted
over the next three years. The project is expected to finance development of
about 3,100 ha.
15.       In 1978, about 23,OOC ha was devoted to citrus.  Since then planting
has increased at an annual average rate of 6,000 ha and this trend is expected
to continue. Citrus is still considered a l1zxury item, but consumption can be
greatly expanded if prices decrease with higher productivity. Exports of both
fresh fruits and juice are small but have a potential for expansion. The
project is expected to support both new plantings (2,500 ha) representing
about 40% of average annual plantings, and rehabilitation of existing
plantations (3,580 ha).
16.       Ipil-ipil is grown extensively throughout the country, primarily for
firewood production. About 70% of all households in th.e Philippines still use
firewood, and industrial use is also oxpanding as a result of the high costs
of imported fuel. lpil-ipil leaves are also used as a feed supplement. The
crop became commercially viable with the introduction of the giant ipil-ipil
variety, one of the fastest growing hardwoods in the world. About 9,600 ha
are expected to be funded under the project.
17.       Agro-Processing and Post-Harvest Facilities.  Agro-processing
investments expected to be financed under the project would include rice
mills, feedmills and food processing facilitics. Despite some regional
overcapacities in rice milling, mills are still needed in certain parts of the
country. Some 550 rice mills are expected to be financed under tb. project in
provinces with capacity limitations. The feedmill industry rapidly expanded
during the last decade from 40 mills in 1971 to 121 at present. About two
thirds of the mills are in the Manila area while the rest are widely scattered
over the regions. The project is expected to finance construction of about 50
feedmills in the outlying regions which would save on transport costs for both
raw materials and end-products.  Mills would be relatively small (10-12 tons
capacity per 8-hour day). Post-harvest facilities for marketing, storage and
transport would also be eligible for financing as need requires.
18.       Farm Mechanization.  Power tillers, tractors, threshers and
cornshellers will be the main items to be funded by the project. As most of
the rice and corn farms are small, land preparation is predominantly done with
power tillers, both locally manufactured and imported. An estimated 9,700
power tillers are currently in operation. Rice cultivation is only about 40-
50Z mechanized, but this is steadily growing. The International Rice Research
Institute has developed a full range of equipment for small farms, most of
which is locally produced, but the greatest demand is for power tillers and
threshers. Efforts to intensify rainfed crop cultivation through earlier
planting, use of early maturing varieties and double cropping (the second crop
making use of residual soil moisture) also calls for mechanized land cultiva-



- 76A- ANN   2
Page 7 of 7
tion. Pilot programs propagating this farming system (Kabsaka) seem to be
successful. Therefor2, a steadily growing demand for power tillers and other
farm machinery can also be expected from rainfed agriculture. Based on a
culti"ated area of 3.0 million ha of palay and 60 ha per year per power
tiller, it is estimated that power tiller requirements over the next three
years would be some 50,000 units (7-8 hp); of this, 8.7% or 4,370 units are
assumed to be funded under the project. It is assumed that 19% (820 units)
would be imported and the rest (3,550 units) locally manufactured.
19.       Available information indicates a national demand for about 600
tractors, of which about 230 tractors (65 hp) are assumed to be financed under
the project mainly for use in sugar plantations.
20.       According to estimates of the Government's National Food Authority,
rice threshing requirements for the period 1984-86 would be 1.75 million
cavans (50 kg of paddy). Given the available supply of threshers at 3,400 in
1984, an additional 11,180 units would be needed, and the project is expected
to finance about 950. Similar estimates reveal a potential demand for 600
cornshellers, 400 of which could be financed by the project.
21.       Seasonal labor constraints, limited supply of draft animals and
increased maintenance costs of draft animals have contributed to extensive use
of power tilLers for rice land preparation, although the direct impact of
mechanization on both productivity improvement and increased cropping inten-
sivity has been minimal. Similarly, tractors are not cost-effective on rice
lands. CB will establish, in consultation with NEDA, IRRI, and the Bank,
minimum technical norms that would be applied in appraisal of farm mechani-
zation investments, especially power tillers and tractors.



ANNEX 2
- ' -              -               _ 77 _  Appendix 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Indicative Lending Program
A. Seasonal Production Credit
% of
Pesos million     US$ million    total cost
Rice - ni-1V                            330.0              16.5            20
- Local                            110.0               5.5             6
Corn - Hybrid                           330.0              16.5            20
- Local                            110.0               5.5             6
Sugar                                   550.0              27.5            33
Other crops                             238.0              11.9            15
Total with taxes                 1,668.0              83.4           100
Less:  Taxes                            151.6               7.6             -
Total Net of Taxes               1,516.4              75.8           100



ANNEX 2
-                         - 78 -                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appendix I
-78-                               x
Page 2
B.  Medium- and Long-Term Credit
Average                                 Z of
unit cost   No. of    Pesos      US$    total
(P)     projects  million  million  cost
Livestock
Poultry
Broiler (small unit)            121,800        360     44.0       2.2
Broiler (large unit)            398,100        110     44.0       2.2
Layer                           680,200         30     22.0       1.1
Total Poultry                  220,000        500    110.0       5.5
Swine
Twenty-sow operation            268,700      1,230    330.0      16.5
Total Swine                    268,700      1,230    330.0      16.5
Cattle
Feedlot                         370,700        300    110.0       5.5
Ranching                        757,600         60     44.0       2.2
Total Cattle                   481s900        360    154.0       7.7
Total Livestock                442,100      2,090    594.0      29.7    30
Fisheries
Fishpond development              391,100         60      22.0      1.1
Fishpond rehabilitation           187,800        120     22.0       1.1
Fishpond development            2,000,000         10      22.0      1.1
Fishpond expansion                501,300         90     44.0       2.2
Fish processing                   292,300         80      22.0      1.1
Fishing boat (40 t)             1,784,100         10      22.0      1.1
Fishpens (3 ha)                   616,500         40     22.0       1.1
Total Fisheries                429,300        410    :.76.0      8.8     9
Plantation Crons (per ha)
Abaca development                   13,300       830      11.0      0.6
Abaca rehabilitation               12,100        910      11.0      0.6
Citrus development                 17,400      2,530     44.0       2.2
Citrus rehabilitation              12,300      3,580     44.0       2.2
Banana development                 17,400      3,790     66.0       3.3
Banana rehabilitation              12,000      5,500     66.0       3.3
Ipil-ipil development               8,300      7,950     66.0       3.3
Ipil-ipil rehabilitation           41,200      1,630     66.0       3.3
Rubber                              14,800     7,430    110.0       5.5
Mango                              14,200      3,100     44.0       2.2
Others                             15,300      9,300    132.0       6.7
-lTotal Plantation Crop          14,200    46,570    660.0       33.1    33
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,0                                       66,       331     3



ANNEX 2
.  79 _                        Appendix 1
Page 3
Average                                % of
unit cost   No. of    Pesos     US$    total
(P)     projects  million million  cost
Agroprocessing
Ricemills
New projects                   399,900         60     22.0      1.1
Expansion                      215,200        200     44.0      2.2
Rehabilitation
Power Unit                   261,700         80     22.0      1.1
Building                     103,800        210     22.0      1.1
FeedmilJ plant-new             1,321,500         50     66.0      3.3
Others                                          100     44.0      2.2
Total Agroprocessing          314,300        700    220.0     11.0    11
Farm Mechanization
Power tiller - Local               31,000     3,550    110.0      5.5
Power tiller - Imported           53,400        820     44.0      2.2
Rice thresher - Local             46,300        950     44.0      2.2
Corn sheller - Local              55,100        400     22.0      1.1
Four-wheel tractor               482,500        230    110.0      5.5
Total Farm Machinery           61,500      5,370    330.0     16.5    17
Total Medium- and Long-Term
Credit with Taxes                               1,980.0     99.1   100
Less:  Taxes                                             180.0      9.0
Total Medium- and Long-Term
Credit Net of Taxes                             1,800.0     90.1   100
Overall Lending Program (A + B)
(net of taxes at US$16.6 million)                    3,316.4    165.9
j
.,



ANNEX 3
- so-                   ~~~~~Page 1 of 4
':r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~8  -  
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Related Training Component
1..Central Bank Institute (CBI).  CBI would be responsible for imple-
menting the training component. As a part of its normal operations, CB1
regularly runs training courses in central banking for CB staff and on rur'al
banking and agriculture-related programs for the staff of both CB and rural
banks. CBI also offers a three-level course to CB ezaminers on bank supervi-
sion. Among the retail banks, only the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP) has its own training institute which offers courses in development
banking to its staff and staff of the private development banks. Most of the
other banks have no in-house training facilities except for ad hoc courses
arranged in coordination with the Bank Administration Institute of the Bankers
Association.
2.        Surveyo  Training Needs.  Project-related staff of CR and partici-
pating banks (commercial, thrift, rural and government specialized banks)
would benefit from the project related training program. To implement the
program effectively, CBI has initiated a modest (random) sample survey to
identify a broad range of tasks to be performed under the project by CB and
participating bank staff at different levels; the training and skills already
available within the institutions; and the skill gaps which should be
addressed by the project. The survey findings which are expected to be avail-
able by June 1985 will be used in the design of course modules, identification
of the clientele to be trained, the frequency of courses and the building uap
of a faculty. Based on a preliminary assessme-nt, the following represents a
broad outline of the component.
3.        Training Objectives.  The general objective of the training compo-
nent is to remedy the skill gaps of officers and staff associated with project
(Agricultural Loan Fund, ALF) lending in Cr and participating banks. Training
will be directed at three staff levels - senior, middle and operating. This
will be achieved through the following:
(a)  pooling and training of potential trainers who will assume the lead
role in teachers' training.  This is a priority activity in the
component.  CBI will draw on the combined resources of its faculty
and the faculties of other agencies with training capabilities;
(b) orienting senior level officials in ALF on policy and decision-
I  making requirementin of ALP lending;
(c)  upgrading the skills of ALF staff in various procedures involved in
subproject processing, accounting, monitoring and reporting-of ALP
transactions;



ANNEX 3
-81 -                           Page 2 of 4
(d)  training all levels of participating bank staff under the same
program as ALF staff, with emphasis on medium- and long-term project
lending;
(e) upgrading the skills of staff in CB's ALF Unit and its Supervision
and Examination Sector (SES) Departments I, II and III in institu-
tional appraisal, leading to institutional development; and
(f) improving the subloan appraisal and supervision capabilities of CB
loan teams.
4.        Selection of Participants for ALF Training.  Participants in the
courses will be those staff who most need the skills. CB invitations to
potential candidates will include a standard requirement that candidates to be
trained will be involved in ALF lending and will use the skills acquired after
training. Participants in the teachers training course would not only be
capable of training others, but would also be in a position to continue with
the program until staff requirements are met.
5.        Skills and Training Needed.  Courses will be designed following
completion of the ongoing survey but are expected to be generally as follows:
(a) senior level officers would be given a familiarization briefing on
the decision making and policy formulation requirements of ALF in
order to augment their skills in managing the ALF loan portfolio;
(b) middle-level officers will receive additional training in loan
appraisal, monitoring, accounting, and loan documentation for short-
term, and medium- and long-term credit;
(c) operations staff will be trained in loan processing, collateral
valuation and custody, record keeping, bookkeeping and reporting;
(d) loan team members will receive additional training in loan and
project appraisal as well as supervision; and
(e) SES staff to be associated with ALF will be trained in conducting
institutional appraisals.
6.        Categories and Kind of Training to be Offered.  Standardized modular
courses will be developed by institution, function and skill. Conceptually,
the mddules would be as follows:
(a)  For ALF Staff:  (i) Familiarization briefing on ALF for senior level
officers; (ii) Training in ALF operations for middle-level officers
and operations staff consisting of courses in Credit Appraisal and
Portfolio Management, ALF Accounting Operations, and Project Lending
and Appraisal.
(b)  SES Departments I, II and III:  (i) Familiarization briefing on ALF;
and (ii) an Institutional Appraisal Course.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
-82 -
(c)  CB Loan Teams and Agricultural Credit Supervisors:  (i) Familiariza-
tion briefing on ALF; (ii) an Institutional Appraisal Course; and
(iii) a Project Formulation and Appraisal Course.
(d) Participating Banks: Ci) Familiarization briefing on ALF for senior
officers; (ii) for middle-level officers and operations staff: a
Credit Appraisal and Project Lending Course for credit staff anl,an
ALF Accounting and Control Systems Course for accounting staff.-
The participants will be grouped by type of institution so that
treatment of topics responds to the nature of their operations.
For manageability, the number of participants per course module will be
limited to 30, except for the familiarization course which could be slightly
larger. This will provide ample opportunities for interaction and open
discussions.
7.        The teachers training course would train and develop prospective
trainers who will be constituted into a pool to provide skills and expertise
to officers and staff of ALF units, associated CB departments and the partici-
pating banks. CBI will assume a lead role in carrying out this course, and
will coordinate with other training institutions, including the Asian
Institute of Management (AIM) and the University of the Philippines at Los
Banos as well as the DBP, the Land Bank of the Philippines and the Philippine
National Bank in order to multiply the core of training staff and facilitate
the flow of participants to the course. Staff from commercial banks with
agri-business expertise would also be tapped. Participants in the course will
be from CBI, government banks and other agriculture-related government insti-
tutions, AIM, UPLB and commercial banks. The Bank's Economic Development
Institute would provide initial technical assistance in the conduct of the
course.
S.        Both classroom and field level training will be provided, according
to the type of training. Classroom training will include lectures, discuss-
ions, case studies and real loan situations, and analysis. Field training in
project formulation and evaluation will include project visits, data gathering
and interviews, and writing of project reports. The mode of training will
vary depending on the needs of the participants.
9.        Senior officers of ALF units and the participating banks would
mainly be provided with information through lecture-discussions and open
forums. For middle-level officers, training will emphasize case studies and
situations, loan appraisal, lending decisions, portfolio management and
control reports. For opcrating staff, training will consist of lectures and
simulation of loan appLication processing and collateral evaluation. For loan
team members and credit supervisors, a combination of lecture, discussion, and
case studies will be undertaken.
I/   The need for this course will be limited because no significant deviation
is expected from standard accounting systems.



ANNEX 3
-83-                             Page 4 of 4
10.       For SES Staff, training would mainly be by lecture and discussions
on how to undertake institutional appraisal.
11.       To accelerate this process, training may be done at the Central Bank
Institute, at retail banks in Manila, and at regional centers, depending on
the concentration of participants.
12.       Evaluation of Training Activities.  The training program will be
evaluated at two different stages. The first stage will involve an assessment
of trainee reactions and attitude toward training, and the extent of knowl-
edge, skills and attitudes acquired from the training. The second stage will
consider the impact of training on job behavior and institutional function-
ing. The evaluation of the second stage will be spread over a longer period
than for the first stage, since the former is immediately observable while the
latter would require a longer term.
13.       Training Costs.  CB would fund costs of the training faculty,
materials and facilities while the boarding and lodging costs of participants
will be proportionately borne by the concerned participating banks.



-84-                                 ANNEX 4
Page I
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Qualifying Criteria for Retail Bank Access to Project Funds
1.        Commercial, thrift, and rural banks which comply with CB's standard
criteria including minimum capital, sound and efficient management, and a
satisfactory past performance in agricultural lending (Appendix 1), will be
eligible for access to the Agricultural Loan Fund (ALF), subject to the
following additional criteria.
Ceiling on Subloan Arrears
(a) Total subloan arrears (defined as the uncollected amount of
principal overdue for more than three months) should be less than
15% of the outstanding loan portfolio. Commercial banks with
subloan arrears of more than 15% but less than 20%, and thrift,
rural, or government banks with arrears of Less than 25% will also
have access to project funds, subject to CB's approval following an
institutional appraisal to ensure that the concerned bank is
financially viable, has taken required steps to collect subloan
arrears, has made adeq.ate provision for bad and doubtful debts, and
has the organizational and staffing capabilities to undertake new
lending under the project (Appendix 2). CB will require banks not
qualifying for access to project funds to take any additic:.al
measures necessary to upgrade their overall operations, and will
provide technical assistance to these banks for this purpose.
(b) A commercial, thrift, or rural bank with subloan arrears exceeding
the ceilings specified in (a) may apply for project funds if its
unimpaired equity and reserves, after allowing for default risk, is
sufficient to meet CB's minimum capital requirements. CB will
determine the eligibility of such banks to project funds by an
.nstitutioDal appraisal as in (a) above. Banks with arrears of more
than 35% will not normally qualify for project funds, but if
conside-ed by CB to be eligible on the basis of an institutional
appraisal, their participation in the project wouLd be subject to
prior consultation with the World Bank.
(c) Subloan arrears outstanding for more than 12 months after the due
date may not exceed 20% of total arrears, and annual repayments of
project subloans must be at least 70% of the aggregate amount fallen
due during that year.



ANNEX 4
85 -                               Page 2
Balanced Term Structure
(d) Participating banks would at all times have a balanced term
structure of assets and liabilities so that medium- and long-term
subloans and other assets are matched by longer-term resources,
including unimpaired equity, and medium- and long-term deposits and
borrowings (Appendix 3).
Qualified Staff
(e)  CB will ensure that participating banks retain oe hire qualified
staff to appraise and supervise the ALF-assisted subloans. Many
thrift and rural banks as well as some private commercial and
government banks have developed satisfactory expertise in subloan
appraisal and supervision. For banks without these capabilities the
project training program would increase the number of staff trained
in these functions.
2.        In view of the unique financial and institutional problems of
Government banks (PNB, DBP and LBP), their participation in the project would
be subject to prior World Bank approval. CB and the Bank may agree upon a
phased application of the general eligibility criteria to government banks as
a part of their overall financial rehabilitation and institutional development
plans.
3.        Any deviation from the eligibility criteria would require prior
consultation with the Bank.



86                            ANNEX 4
-Appendi3  I
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Standard Criteria for Retail Bank Access to Central
Bank Credit Facilities
1.   Compliance with minimum capital requirements and capital bu 1d-up
programs as set by the Monetary Board for each type of bank_ ;
2.   Sound and efficient management;
3.   Satisfactory performance, including implementation of sound policies and
procedure., observance of pertinent laws, rules and regulations as well
as profitable operations and sound financial position based on the latest
examination reports of the Central Bank's Supervision and Examination
Sector;
4.   The ratio of past-due direct and indirect loans to the bank's own stock-
holders, directors and officers to aggregate past due loans should not
exceed 5% based on the latest examination by the appropriate supervising
department;
5.   No net deficiency in reserves against deposit liabilities for the past
four consecutive weeks based on the latest required reports;
6.   No arrearages and/or emergency loans with the Central Bank as well as
delinquencies,on borrowings from various Funds administered by the
Central Bank- ;
7.   No reported irregularities committed by the bank.
1/   The current norms for capital build-up will be reviewed and suitably
modified on the basis of the proposed study of CB's rediscounting
; pclicies and the arrearages problem (Annex 1, paras. 12 and 17c).
21   Subject to rehabili.ation programs approved by CB's Monetary Board.



-87 -                           ANNEX 4
Appendix 2
PHILIPPINES
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Institutional Appraisal by CB
1.        Objectivess  The purpose of the proposed institutional appraisal
would be to identify any major financial and organizational problems of the
participating banks and to prepare an action plan, in consultation with the
banks concerned, for overall institutional deveLopment including viable
agricultural lending.
2.        Scope.  The scope of the institutional appraisal would vary with the
type of institution (commercial, thrift, rural or government specialized
bank). The institutional appraisa' will generally examine the following:
(a) Organization and management: Quality of management; staff strength
and staff skill gaps and need for training; plans for and methods of
recruitment; accounting systems and internal controls.
- (b)  Operating polici-.s and procedures:  Effectiveness of business
strategies and lending; and subloan collection and collateral
policies and procedures, with particular reference to agricultural
subprojects.
{c) financial condition and performance: Status of capitalization; term
structure of assets and liabilities; and adequacy of provisions for
bad and doubtful debts, aging of arrears, loans in litigation, and
overall profitability of operatioas.
5d) Fnd-use verification: a review of subloan supervision procedures
including a random verification of selected subprojects.
3.        Responsibility.  Institutional appraisal by the ALF unit will be a
special. task supplementary to, but not substituting for, the statutory
examination conducted by the SES I, II and III. The institutional appraisal
would enable CB and the participating bank to form a view on what steps should
be taken to upgrade the participating bank's overall management and financial
condition so that the bank can continue as an effective lending channel on a
continuing basis.
4.        Reportiag and Follow-up.  At the conclusion of appraisal, a brief
report will be prepared by the appraisal staff actting out their findings and
an action plan ag-eed with the participating bank. This report will be
submitted to the Jirector, DLC, who will make a decision on the follow-up
action needed, and whether the bank qualifies or continues to qualify for
project funds. The implementation of the actiou plan will be monitored by the
ALF Unit with assistance from SES I, II and III.



-88 -                           ANPE 4
Appendix 3
PSILIPPIIES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Balanced Term Structure for Long-Term
Assets and Liabilities
The long-tern assets of a financial institution, net of necessary
valuation reserves, shall generally not exceed its long-term financial
resources.
Long-term assets are:
(a) outsta'ding loans and claims with a contractual repayment period or
period of notice of five years or more;
(b) investments in subsidiaries, majority participations, and securities
not registered with a stock exchange;
(c) land and buildings;
(d) equipment and other fixed assets.
Long-term resources are:
(a) equity;
(b) liabilities (vithout savings deposits) with a contractual repayment
period or period of notice of five years or more;
(c)  40X V  of savings and time deposits;
(d) bonds and debentures with a maturity of five years or more;
(e) 40X 1V of bonds and debentures with a maturity of less than five
years;
(f) 40% 1V of the provisions for pension claims and of other long-term
liabilities; and
(g)  10  V  of all other liabilities.
1I   Percentages to be reviewed by CB's Economic Research Department in
consultation with the Bank.



ANNEX 5
-89-                               Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
1.        Purpose of Subloans.  OnLy subprojects in agriculture, agriculture-
cumo-processing, and rural enterprises wherein the potential for increased
production or increased efficiency in related marketing and processing are
clearly established wilL be eligible for project financing. An indicative
list of subprojects eligible for ALF funding is shown in Appendix 1.
2.        Qualifying Criteria for Participating Banks.  Retail banks which
conform to the qualifying criteria established by CB in consultation with the
Bank would be eligible for access to project funds (Annex 4).
3.        Loan Size.  Generally not to exceed P 10 millioz. (US$500,000).
However, this limit-may be increased for specific subprojects, with prior
concurrence of the Central Bank.
4.        Interest Rates:
(a)  CB-ALF Loans to Participating Banks.  The interest rate on ALF loans
to participating banks shall be market-oriented and shall not be
lower than the following:
(i) the weighted average cost of borrowing ALF funds, CB's ALF-
z-elated administrative costs and an element of foreign exchange
risk;
(ii) the weighted average cost of the banking system's savings and
time deposits including cost of mobilizing such deposits.
(b)  Participating Banks' Loans to Subborrowers.  The interest rates on
subloans supported by the ALF will be flexible and determined by
individual banks on the basis of CB's interest rate for ALF funds;
the veighted average cost of its own resources deployed in the
subproject; and the average intermediation costs including possible
default costs on its overall loan portfolio as well as the charac-
teristics of the individual loan. However, the spreads retained by
individual participating banks over the ALF funds A-re expected to be
influenced by the following:
(i)    CB shall notify semiarnually and in consultation with repre-
sentative organizations of co  ercial, thrift and rural banks,
the lowest effective (reference) spread at which the partici-
pating banks would lend under the ALF to its more established
clients;
(ii)    CB will in turn monitor the spreads retained by a participating
bank on the ALF-funded subloans to ensure that these are



-90-                            ANNEX 5
Page 2
consistent with the prevailing market rates for subloans of
comparable maturities, size, and risk and do not tend to be
exploitative or non-conducive to viable private sector invest-
ments. Based on this monitoring, CB wilL hold, if necessary,
periodic dialogue with individual or groups of participating
banks, to explore ways to reduce their intermediation costs as
may be necessary.
(iii)    Any revision in interest rates on CB funds and subloans would
generally occur semiannually to reflect the changes in the
weighted average cost of loanable funds. Marginal changes in
the cost of borrowing will not usually initiate any change in
the interest rate. Interest rates on subloans for seasonal
production credit, once fixed are not expected to change
because of relatively shorter maturities of such credit. For
monitoring purposes, any proposal to increase the subloan
interest rate by more than 2% over the rate at which the
subloan was originally disbursed would require a specific
report from the participating bank to CB explaining the
circumstances in which the proposed increase was necessary.
5.        Subloan Maturities:
(a) Short-term subloans shall be payable within a period of 12 months
except for sugar and banana production which shall have maturities
of not more than 18 months. Repayment of mediumr and long-term
subloans will be based on the subproject's cash flow and related to
the subborrower's overall repayment capacity. Repayment periods for
most medium- and long-term subloans will be between 5 and 10 years
but will not exceed 15 years or the economic life of the subproject,
whichever is lower. Indicative repayment periods for eligible
subprojects are shown in Appendix 2.
(b) Grace periods may be granted for repayment of principal based on the
subproject's cash flow and the overall financial status of the
subborrower.
(c)  Mediumr and long-term loanL shall be amortized in periodic install-
ments as may be fixed by a participating bank. Amortization
payments to ALF will follow the same schedule as payments by the
subborrowers to the participating banks.
6.        Collateral.  Subloans will be secured by coLlateral consistent with
current banking practices and CB regulations. The coLlateral for the ALF loan
shall be assigned to the Central Bank.
7.        Subborrower's Contribution.  A subborrower's contribution will be
determined by a participating bank on the basis of its credit appraisal, but
in no case shall be less than 10%. The subborrower contribution may be in
cash or in kind including the monetary value of family labor but shall exclude
the cost of land used in the subprojects which will be financed exclusively
from the subborrower's own resources and would constitute a collateral for the
subloan.



91 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 3
8.        Participating Bank Contribution.  CB funding of a participating
bank's subloan shall not exceed 9OZ.
9.        Rescheduling/Restructuring of ALF Loans.  A participating bank may
secure rescheduling of repayments due to CB by submitting a specific proposal
at least 15 days prior to the due date of the CB loan(s). The bank may also
provide, depending on the need and subborrower's repayment capacity, addi-
tional financing for the purpose of rehabilitating the subproject. Both
rescheduling of maturity dates and the provision of additional financing shall
be subject to prior approval by CB and generally limited to the economic life
of the asset financed.
10.       Consortium.  Subloans financed by two or more participating banks on
a consortium basis shall be eligible for the ALF facility provided that the
share of each participating bank does not exceed 15Z of its net worth. The
consortium shall designate a lead bank to administer the subloan in accordance
with ALF rules.
11.       End-Use Verification.  A participating bank will be responsible for
supervision of the subloans, including end-use verification and monitoring of
subproject performance and shall require subborrowers to submit audited
financial statements, duly audited in the case of corporate borrowers, after
the end of each calendar year until the loan is fully repaid.
12.       Reporting Requirements.  Participating banks will furnish the CB
with all reports and other information which CB may reasonably request on
ALF-financed subprojects.



ANNEX 5
- 92 -                           Appendix 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Subprojects Eligible for ALF Assistance
1.        ALF facilities would include seasonal production credit for selected
agricultural commodities (for a period and up to an amount to be determined by
CS, in consultation with the Bank) and medium- and long-term credit for fixed
assets (excluding land) and permanent working capital. In principle, ALF
would fund investments in agriculture, mainly production and production-cum-
processing. Any possible overlap with the the Bank-assisted Small and Medium
Industries Development Project (Ln. 2169-PE) which primarily funds industrial
investments would be addressed on the basis of guidelines agreed between the
Bank and CB. Subject to these guidelines, the following provides an
indicative, but not exclusive, list of medium- and long-term investment
projects eligible for ALF assistance. The subprojects would include those for
the establishment of new, or expansion and rehabiLitation of existing enter-
prises which are appraised by participating banks as technically feasible,
financiaLly viable and economically justified.
(a)  Poultry and Livestock Develop-ent.  Facilities and initial working
capital for the following subprojects: poultry; swine; backyard
cattle breeding/fattening, dairy, goat raising; draft animals and
implements; integrated processing facilities; transport; and egg
graders/sorters.
(b) Fisheries Development. Fishing boats, including gear and equipment;
fishponds and fishpens; refrigeration and canning facilities; fish
drying and smoking facilities; and initial working capital.
(c) Plantation Crop Development. Development and rehabilitation of the
following plantations: abaca, citrus, ipil-ipil, rubber, mango,
banana, coconut and other plantation crops as may be approved by CB.
(d) Agroprocessing and Post-Harvest Facilities. Solar and mechanical
driers; shellers; rice and corn mills; feed mills; storage facili-
ties; refrigeration and cold storage.
(e) Farm Mechanization Equipment and Machinery. Power tillers;
tractors; power sprayers; haulers/transport; seeders; threshers; and
light and heavy trucks, primarily for transport of agricultural
produce.
(f) Other Projects as May be Approved by CB. CB shall determine the
feasibility of financing other categories and include them under
this program, in consultation with the Bank.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Subloan Maturities
1.        Subloan maturities would be based on the subproject's cash flow and
related to the subborrower's overall repayment capacity within the economic
life of the subproject, and in each case shall not generally exceed the
following, including appropriate grace periods:
(a) Farm implements with four-wheel tractors and power tillers as prime
mover:
(i) With prime mover - the loan term applicable to the prime
mover, usually up to seven years;
(ii) Without prime mover - four years;
(iii)   With prime mover purchased at an earlier date - four years
or the remaining term of any subloan received for the
purpose of financing the prime mover, whichever is greater;
(b) Other farm implements - four years;
(c)  Light machinery  - up to 20 HP - four years;
(d)  Heavy machinery  - over 20 HP - seven years;
(e) Lighttheavy trucks - five years;
(f) Irrigation pumps and engines - five years;
(g) Piggery project - seven years;
(h) Poultry project - seven years;
(i)  Cattle breeding/fattening and draft animals projects - ten years;
(j) Goat raising - seven years;
(k)  Complete development of fishpond - ten years;
(1) Fishpen financing - three years;
(m)  Fishing boats up to 40 gross tons - ten years;



-94-                             ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
(n) Fishing gear and equipment:
(i) With fishing boat - ten years; and
(ii) Without fishing boat - seven years;
(o) Rice mill - ten years;
(p) Development of plantation crops - up to fifteen years;
(q) Plantation crop, processing and marketing facilities:
(i) Storage facilities - up to ten years;
(ii) Transportation - up to four years;
(iii) Stripping machine - up to three years;
(iv) Baling Press - up to ten years;
(r) Permanent working capital - five years;
(s) Other items: to be determined by CB in consultation with the Bank.



ANNEX 6
95s                                Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Monitoring
1.        Objectives.  Project monitoring would help identify constraints and
improve implementation of the project through provision of information to CB
and the management of participating banks. Monitoring should enabLe CB and
the banks to initiate actions to remedy project implementation constraints and
to upgrade loan appraisal, delivery, control and repayment. Monitoring would
thus be an integral part of day-to-day operational management. Main areas to
be covered would include: status of disbursements under subloans, physical
achievements under the subprojects; the operational results of representative
investment projects; financial performance of participating financial insti-
tutions and the micro/macro economic sectoral situation relating to project
investment. Accordingly, CB would call for progress reports from the partici-
pating retail banks and consolidate those reports for review by CB and the
Bank. On the basis of information receivcd, CB would prepare monitoring
reports as described below.
2.        Quarterly Progress Report on Subloan Disbursements.!'  CB vould
require this information from the participating banks to claim reimbursement
from the World Bank. The progress report would separately show disbursements
both for seasonal production credit, by type of commodity and participating
bank, and for medium- and long-term credit, for permanent working capital and
agricultural and agroprocessing investment.
3.        Semi-Annual Monitoring Report  This report will be prepared for the
project's credit and institutional development activities by the ALF Unit's
Planning and Monitoring Division. Each report will consist of a narrative
section highlighting the main achievements and problems encountered during the
past six months of project implementation and listing actions and recommenda-
tions proposed to resolve them. The following tables will be attached to
these sumnmaries.
(a) Credit Component
-    Processing of investment loan applications; loan amounts
approved and disbursed by activities, term and bank;
-    Physical achievements of subprojects financed;
I/   CB may increase the frequency of progress reports on subloan
disbursements to facilitate expeditious withdrawals of the Bank loan.



ANNEX 6
-96-                                 Page 2
-    Collection performance on project loans classified by bank and
by age for both production credit and term loans;
-    Loan supervision activities of ALF and participating bank
staff.
(b) Institutional Development
-    Organization of ALF Unit and recruitment and/or assignment of
personnel;
-    Financial status of participating banks and institutional
development for project implementation;
-    Progress in rehabilitation program for both participating banks
and potentially eligible banks;
-    Progress in training of ALF and participating bank staff;
-    Major ALFPAC reviews and recommendations.
These reports will be submitted to the Bank within two months from
the end of the six-month period.
4.        Annual Financial Statements and Institutional Appraisal.  Certified
copies of the following financial statements relating to ALF and retail
lending banks will be submitted to the Bank by ALF annually not later than six
months after the end of the accounting year of the respective institutions.
-    ALF statement of income and expenses;
-    ALF balance sheet;
-    ALF cash flow statement;
-    Annual Report on rescheduling/restructuring of loans under the
project;
-    Audit Reports of ALF and project accounts;
-    Institutional appraisal of participating banks conducted by ALF;
-    Annual reports of participating banks, including income statements
and balance sheets, and subloan collection performance, as may be
indicated by the Bank.
5.        Annual Surveys.  The focus of the annual surveys will be on an
assessment of operating results of representative investment projects in a
sectoral context as well as the impact of project lending on retail lending
banks. The methodology and sample size would be prepared by the CB-Economic
Research Department and TBAC or any other suitable agency. The assessment of
the impact of project lending on the financial condition of the participating



_ 97 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 3
banks will be based on income and cash flow analysis. These statements would
be used to ascertain whether financiaL objectives are being met and provide a
basis for remedial actions.
6.        Monitoring by Retail Lending Banks.  Monitoring of subloans will be
the responsibility of the lending banks which would designate an officer for
monitoring the various stages of the loan cycle as presented in Table 1
attached. Lending Banks should also ensure that separate subsidiary books and
reporting arrangements are maintained for ALF-related accounts.
7.        Reporting Forms.  Specimen reporting forms will be prepared by CB,
in consultation with the Bank.
B. Ex-Post Evaluation
8.        Ex-Post Evaluation Reports.  The ex-post evaluation should assess
subproject costs and benefits and the impact of project lending on
institutional development. Analysis of the participating banks' proiect-
related accounting would be central to this evaluation. This analysis would
quantify the financial and economic benefits of subprojects, including the
subproject's profitability to the bank's net worth.
9.        Evaluation should also verify lending models, comparing the actual
operational results of the representative investment projects with projections
made at the time of appraisal. The report will comment on whether the
expected results are being achieved, surpassed or not being achieved and will
analyze the causal factors.
10.       Ex-post evaluation will be done by DLC in association with CB's
Economic and Research Department and TBAC. A project completion report will
be prepared by CB or an agency nominated by CB.



-98-                               ANNEX 6
Table 1
Page 4
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Functions of Participating Bank Staff
Subloan               Seasonal Loans                   Medium- and Long-Term Loans
processing    Function            Responsibility      Function          Responsibility
Appraisal     Analyze loan appraisal   Loan         Analyze sumaary of      Senior
documents submitted       Officer    work of loan staff.    Officer
for approval.  Random                Random check on
check all applications.              appraisal procedures
used and time
taken.
Delivery      Summarize loan records   Branch       Time less cri-          Credit
by type and activity.    Managers   tical than seasonal    Supervisors
Check timeliness of                  loans.  Monitoring
input supply with                    should concentrate
extension staff.                     on ensuring approved
inputs are available.
Utilization   Regular systematic        Credit      Regular visits to       Credit
ptogram of visits         Supervi-   check that capital      Super-
to borrowers.             sors       expenditure on farm    visors
improvement is in
accordance with
technical recommend-
ations.
Repayment     Regular summry of         Loan        Check progress of       Project
repayment status of      Officers   annual loan repay-       Accounts
all accounts.  Check      and        ment installments.      Staff with
progress of marketing    Branch      Cross check with        help of
agents and liaise with   Managers   seasonal finances        Credit
extension.                           to assess surplus.      Supervisors



_ 99 _FANNEX 7
Table I
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Principal Input and Output Prices
Economic /b
Unit        Financial la  1985           1990
Pesos --          -
Inputs
Concentrate feed                            kg             3.00          2.80          2.80
Salt supplement                             kg             1.20          1.00          1.00
Feed bag (50 kg capacity)                   one            2.50          2.15          2.15
Piggery feed                                kg             4.20          3.60          3.60
Fish fry: Sugpo                            piece           0.45          0.40          0.40
Bangus                          piece           0.25          0.22          0.22
Organic fertilizer                          at           550.00        473.00        473.00
Inorganic fertilizer - Urea                 at         5,180.00      4,850.00     6,060.00
Fish feed                                   at         2,200.00      2,070.00      2,070.00
Chemical pesticides                       gallon         360.00        338.00        338.00
Sacks                                       one            3.30          2.80          2.80
Agrlcultural labor                          ad            25.00         12.50         12.50
Outputs
Beef                                  kglliveweight       21.60         27.00         27.80
Broiler                                    bird            3.50          4.40          4.40
Feed bag                                     1             2.50          2.15          2.15
Chiken manure                               kg             0.18          0.15          0.15
Fattener                              kg/liveweight       21.00         18.10         18.10
Weanling                                   head          440.00        378.40        378.40
Culled sow                            kg/liveweight       19.00         16.40         16.40
Fish: Sugpo                                 kg           125.00        107.50        107.50
Bangus                                kg            18.00        15.50         15.50
Dried fish                                  kg            24.00         20.64         20.64
Smoked fish                                 kg            30.00         25.80         25.80
Marine fish                                 kg            18.00         15.50         15.50
Banana                                      kg             2.60          2.24          2.00
Citrus                                      kg             7.22          6.21          6.60
Mango                                       one            1.20          1.00          1.00
Coffee beans                                kg            45.00          5.81          6.40
Rubber - cuplumps                           kg             8.00         11.00         13.80
Abaca - fair grade                          kg             5.40          4.60          4.60
good grade                          kg             6.40         5.50          5.50
excellent grade                     kg             7.70         6.60          6.60
Ipil-Ipil: Leaf air dry                     mt           650.00        559.00        559.00
fuelwood                        at           280.00        240.80        240.80
Palay (unmilled rice)                       kg             2.65          2.76          3.85
Corn                                        kg             3.86          3.18          3.40
Sugar (processed)                           kg             4.75          4.46          7.70
Abaca fibercraft: Shopping bags            piece          25.00         21.50         21.50
Placemats              dozen           70.00         60.20         60.20
/a  Financial prices reflect those prevailing at the time of appraisal, suitably updated
to December 1984.
/b The economic farugate prices for internationally traded comodities have been derived
from vorld prices projected by the Economic Analysis and Projections Department. World
Bank, January 1985. For internally traded items, the economic prices have been
derived from the financial prices using the standard conversion factor, and are
assumed to remaln constant for the duration of the project.



ANNEX 7
- 100 -                              Table 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Conversion Factors Used in Economic Analysis
Standard conversion factor........................................    0.86
Capital goods.....................................................       0.86
0.85
Electricity, gas and w.................... ............0.........    0.80
0.80
CoDnstruction .....De........................... .................... 0.84
Shadow wage rate - rural agricultural labor (Pesos/day) ...........   12.50
Exchange rate (US$ equivalent) ......................... ...........   20.00



-101-                              ANNE    7
TabUle 3
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Benefit-Cost Ratio of Palay and Corn, 1985-86
(P/ha)
Irrigated palsy      Hybrid corn
Finan-             Finan-
cial /a Economic cial /a Economic
Gross value of production lb             6,676    4,282      7,192      6,735
Production cost                          2,961    2,402      1,109        838
Benefit-cost ratio                       2.3:1    1.8:1      6.5:1        8:1
Production Costs
Seeds/planting materials                 233       150       101         95
Hired labor                               532      266       232        116
Family labor                               -       270         -        113
Fertilizers and chemicals              1,635    1,585        585        470
Fuel and transportation                   63        50        28         22
Irrlgatlon fee                            94        81         -          -
Lease rental                               -         -        25         22
Land tax and interest on land             40         -        38          -
amortization
Interest on production loan /c           364         -       100          -
Total Production Cost               2,961    2,402      1,109        838
/a Based on a Bureau of Economics Survey of July-September 1983, projected to
1984 using inflation rates of 18% (July-November 1983) and 232 (November
1983 to Septeuber 1984).
/b Palav yield assumed at 3.1 mt/ha, corn at 2.0 at/ba; expenses In kind
relating to landlord's share, harvester's share, thresher's/sheller's
share and ±ease rental are deducted from production value to arrive at
gross production value. Such deductions amount to P 1,539 for palay and
P 528 for corn. The prlce of palay and corn (1984 price In 1985 constant
value) is as follows:
Palay              Corn
Pinancial price                 2.65/kg             3.86/kg
Economic prlce                  1.70/kg             3.61Jkg
Palay was valued using export parity prices and corn at import parity
prices.
/c Interest on production loan taken at 20% p.a. on 702 of the financial
costs of productlon.



-102 -                             T       7
Ta ble 4
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Benefit-Cost Ratios of Sugar, 1985/86
(PIpicul)
Financial /a             Economic /b
Production value /c                             300.0                    281.0
Production cost                                 264.0                    140.0
Benefit:cost ratio                              1.1:1                    2.0:1
Production Costs
Preparation, planting and
cultivation /d                               48 4
Fertilizer application Id                      22.8
Harvesting/milling /d                          43.6
Total Direct Cost                      114.8                     85.4
Production cost /e                            231.5                    140.0
Interest on seasonal loans If                  32.4                        -
Total Production Costs                 263.9                    140.0
/a  Based on "Sugar Production Financing Program," October 1984, a report pre-
pared by Republic Planters Bank in consultation with the Bank appraisal
misslon.
/b  1984 economic price of sugar in 1986 constant value.
Tc  Derived from composite weighted average of export and domestic prices for
sugar which Is projected at between P 250-350 per picul.
/d Labor component is assumed at 50% for farm size 1-49 ha, 302 for farm size
50-99 ha, 202 for farm size over 100 ha and 40% for average farm. A
shadow-wage factor of 0.5 for labor and standard conversion factor of 0.86
for other costs are used to derive economic values. Fertilizer valued at
border prices at farm-gate level derived from prevailing world market
prices.
/e  Based on 19B3 national average of planters' share of production cost at
612 and updated to 1984 using an inflation factor of 1.23.
If  Interest on seasonal loans assumed at about 30% on 70% of the costs of
production.



PHiILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Longer-Term Investments
All
Ease    All costs   Benefits   Benefits   costs +102            Benefits
estimate    +102          +10%        -102    benefits -10%   lag one year
Financial Rates of Return
Power till1er                           36           31          42          30         24               24'
Tractor                                 31           27          35          27         23               23
Piggery:  20-sow fattening               28          20          36          20         12               16
Poultry:  10,000 broilers               29          24           35          23         18               19
Banana                                  43          36           51          23         18               20 
Citrus                                  46          43           50          43        39                36
Fish processing                         46          37           55          36         28               25
5-ha fishpond                           35          30          41           29        24                23
3-ha fishpen                            34          26          43           25         17               19
Economic Rates of Return
Power tiller                            84           72         .96          71         61               44
Tractor                                 38          32          41           32         26               25
*Piggery:  20-sow fattening               48          35          61          33         22                22
Poultry:  10,000 broilers               37          31          43           31        25                24
* Banana                                  77          67          88           65         55               40
citrus                                  51          47          54          47         43                39
Fish processing                         62          52           74         51         41                33
5-ha fishpond                           39          33          45           32        27                25
3-ha fishpen                            57          41          67           35        23                26
LA 4



PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Financial Statement for the Project
Statement of Income and Expenses /a
(million pesos)
Project years:      1        2        3       4        5        6       7       8        9       10
Income - Interest earnings /a 79.77   236.25  351.31  428.01  466.36  466.36  466.36  466.36  466.36  466.36
Expenses
IBRD commitment fees         12.00      8.44    4.22    1.41        
Interest Expenses
IBRD loan /b               41.00   130.63  184.06  231.25  300.00  290.00  270.00  250.00  230.00  210.00
Local financing /c          9.98    23.63   35.13   42.80   46.64   46.64   46.64   46.64   46.64   46.64           0
Subtotal Interest Expenses  50.98   154.25  219.19  274.05  346.64  336.64  316.64  296.64  276.64  256.64
Administrative expenses /d
(Net of fixed assets
investment)              3.50      4.32    5.24    6.07    6.68    7.21    7.79    8.41    9.09    9.81
Fixed assets amortization    0.10       0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18
Provision for bad debts /e   8.86    25.91   30.17   38.69   25.91   51.82   51.82   51.82   51.82   51.82
Foreign exchange loss /f      0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   46.67   46.67   46.67   46.67   46.67
Total Expenses           74.44   193.02  258.93  320.32  379.32  442.52  423.09  403.72  384.39  365.12
Net Income                4.33    43.23   92.38  107.69   87.04   23.85   43.27   62.65   81.98  101.25
/a  Based on CB interest rate of 181 p.a.
7Tb  Interest rate assumed at 9.5X p.a. for years 1-3 and 10% p.a. thereafter.
7-F  Interest rate on local funds assumed at 15% p.a.
d Administrative costs based on CB estimates.
7i  The provision for bad debt builds up to 15% of the outstanding loan portfolio in the tenth year.
7T For assumptions regarding local currency devaluation, see Project File.



ANEXu 7
Table 7
PRILIPPINE
A*RICULTURAL CREDIT PROMCr
Prolected Financial Statment for the Project
State6ont of Conditlon
(million peos)
Project years:    1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8        9        10
Assets
Csuh & deposits           32.80    100.0O    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00
Other llquid investewnts    -        2.04    124.69    271.17    384.22    303.83    247.77    209.08    199.72    189.63
Loan Portfolio /a
Productlon loans       681.12  1,107.95  1,107.95  1,107.95  1,107.95  1.107.95  1,107.95  1.107.95  1,107.95  1,107.95
Nidium-term loans      102.27    315.54   528.41    741.48    741.48   741.48   741.48    741.48    741.48   741.48
Long-term loanm        102.27    315.54   528.41   741.48    741.41    741.48    741.48    741.48    741.48    741.4J
Subtotal loans       886.36  1,738.64  2,164.77  2,590.91  2,590.91  2.590,91  2,590.91  2590.91  2,590.91  2,590.91
Less:
Provision for bad debt   R.86    34.77      64.94    103.64    129.55    181.36    233.18    285.00    336.82    388.64
Net Loans            877.50  1,703.86  2,099.83  2,487.27  2.461.36  2,409.55  2,357.73  2,305.91  2.254.09  2,202.27
Fized assets               0.50      0.50      0.50      0.50      0.30      1.40     1.40      1.40      1.40      1.40
Less cumulative
amortization           0.10      0.20      0.30      0.40      0.50      0.68      0.86     1.04      1.22      1.40
Net Fixed Assets       0.40      0.30      0.20      0.10      0.00     0.72      0.54      0.36      0.18      0.00
Foreign exchange
adjustment account        -      200.00    200.00    200.00    700.00    653.33    606.67    560.00    513.33    466.67
Total Assets         910.70  2.006.20  2,524.72  3,058.54  3,645.58  3,469.43  3,312.70  3,175.35  3,057.33  2,958.57
Liabilities and Equity
Liabilities
IBRD /b                800.00  1,750.00  2,125.n0  2,500.00  3,000.00  2,R00.00  2,600.00  2,400.00  2,200.00  2,000.00
Local borrovings       106.36    208.64    259.77    310.91    310.91    310.91    310.91    310.91    310.91    310.91
Equity
Paid-in equity            -         -                   -         -             -         -         -         -
Accumulated profits      4.33     47.57    139.95    247.63    334.67    358.52    401.79    464.44    546.42    647.66
Total Liabilities
and Equlty        910.70  2,006.20  2.524,72  3,058.54  3,645.58  3.469.43  3,312.70  3.175.35  3,059.33  2,958.57
/a  Production credit io given for an average one-year period and io rediaburued upon collection. Yadium-term lnvestent
credit makes up half of the Initial disbursements for investment credit and han an average four-year term includlng one-
year grace period. Long-term Investment credit sakes up the other half of the initial disbursements for investment cre-
dit and has an average seven-year term, includlng two years of grace. Both medium- and long-terp investment credit are
redisbursed upon CD receipt of repayment by participating banks.
/b IBRD loan disbursements assumed at US$40 million in year ; US$30 milllon in year 2; USSIS million In year 3; and S15
villion in year 4. Fstimated disbursement profile per text Table 15 would result in disbursement different from that
assumed here. Nowever, any changes In the disbursement profile will not affect the profitability of project
operation.  Loan amortization is 20 years including 5 years of grace. Principal repayment will be in 10 equal
senlannual installments starting In the fifth year. In the cashflow analysis fitures reflect year-end sunmaries.
Therefore, IBRD loan amortization appears as annual repayments at year-end.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ANN-I  7
-106-                                                 Table 8
PHLIPPnES
LRICIILTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Pinancial Starement for the Project
Sources and Uses of Funds
( illion pesos)
Project years:    1        2        3        4        5          6        7        8        9       10
Sources la
Net income plus non-
cash expenses           4.33    43.23    92.38   107.69    87.04      23.85    43.27    62.65    81.98   101.25
Amortization              0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10       0.18     0.18     0.18     0.18     0.18
Plus:
Foreign ex7change
loss                   -        -        -        -        -        46.67    46.67    46.67    46.67    46.67
Provision for bad
debt                  8.86    25.91    30.17   38.69    25.91       51.82    51.82    51.82    51.82    51.82
Subtotal Cash from
Operations         13.30    69.24   122.65   146.48   113.05    122.51   141.94   161.31   180.64   199.91
IBRD loan drawdcarn     800.00   750.00   375.00   375.00
Local borrofing         106.36   102.27    51.14    51.14      -      -       -        -        -         -
Subtotal New
Borrowings        906.36   852.27   426.14  426.14            -         -        -             -        -
Total Sources       919.66   921.52   548.79   572.62   113.05    122.51   141.94   161.31   180.64   199.91
Uses
Loan amortization /b
IERD                     -        -        -        -        -      200.00   200.00   200.00   200.00   200.00
LocalLy financed         -        -        -        _-                                                      -
Subtotal Loan
Amortization         -        -        -        -        -       200.00   200.00   200.00   200.00   200.00
Net subloan
disbursement          886.36   852.27   426.14  426.14                 -         -        -        -        -
Capital expenditures      0.50      -        -        -        -        0.90
Net changes in
current assets         32.80    69.24   122.65   146.48   113.05    (78.39)  (58.06)  (38.69)  (19.36)   (0.09)
Total Uses          919.66   921.52   548.79   572.62   113.05    122.51   141.94   161.31   180.64   199.91
/a  Repayment of project loans to participating banks would be redeployed in new loans, and therefore has not been
shorn separately.
lb Cumulative net income from ALF operations vould be sufficient to repay the IBRD loan, including the expected
exchange risk.



-107                               ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Prolect File
Section A              Central Bank Project Preparation Documents:
A.1               CB Committee Report on the Proposed Agricultural Loan
Fund (ALF)
A.2               Agriculture and Rural Development Institutions, Crop
Production and Marketing
A.3               Review of Financial Institutions and Central Bank Credit
Policies
A.4               Review of Ongoing Agricultural Credit Programs
A.5               Organization and Operational Policies to Implement
Agricultural Loan Fund Arrangement
A.6                Supplementary Information on Credit Demand and Financial
Sector Operations
A.7               Farm Models and Financial Analysis
A.8               Initial List of Retail Banks Qualified for Project
Participation
A.9               Central Bank Notes on the Proposed Policy and
Institutional Reforms
A.10              CB - Department of Loans and Discounts, Annual Report
1983
Section B              Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by
Preparation/Appraisal Missions
B.1               Investment Prospects in Selected Subsectors
B.2               Commercial, Savings and Thrift Banks:  Financial
Condition and Operations
B.3               Analysis of Subloan Arrearages
B.4               Financial and Economic Analysis of Selected Subprojects
B.5               ALF Cash Flow Analysis and Statistical Data on Rural
Banks and Agricultural Credit
B.6               ALF Operating Guidelines, Project-related Training
Component; and Monitoring and Evaluation



PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR            1985                     '966                     4987                     19U6                     1989
MAJOR PROJECT ACIMTIES                                                                                       _                                              _ -
QUARTER    1    2       3     4     4     2      J     4     I     2      J    4      1i    2      3     4     1     2     3      4.
A CREDIT PROGRAM
Appoint Care Stofl tor ALF Unit & ALFPAG
Techrtica Unit
Appoint Additonal Persone for ALF
Unit & ALFPAG Technical Unit                                            _    1111 Pfel                                  IIIII _i_IJ   1Ed71 lLIi  lii gll  flill ii
Reconstitute AgrIultural Mtochiney
Manufocturers & Deals Accrediation
Conmritee
Isse Notice cn Machinert Imports &
Accreditation d Deo"_
Inform Retail Bonks of Po)ecrts Scope. Lending
Terim& Conditions&EligbilltyCrteria                             liii  l 1              liii  Illl      1        Rollo l_iEi l77ll 7dL    _EE    lilH lEEiE SEJE E
NotWy Retail Banks vIth hrears Less Than 15%
ol Their Eligiblity                                                          Is_I1 IiIi gII oil I I I   l I ""lll I 1 I I I11IIIII gioi I1111 .I.. gIIl
Ptepare Institutonol Approlst Plans & Undetake
Institutiono Apprassaix PriortyBanks                 _mi il _iii _     _ii; 1dSEE  JEEi   lii 1EESI                           liii EJEE    mill
Estobith Mtnimum Technical Norms for Form
MechonzatIon Invesftmnts & Review Impbi-
mfntation dFormMechanizationProgarm                            1_li   lilli 111  liii l11 llii llog le ii. Sll   1111  lill lfel  lii Illli loan  lllI
Prepare Institutioal Development Plons tar 
CommIrciat Banks                                                         l _       i  _1 oll_ _oil                       I _  ___.
roject Monttorng by ALF                                                                                                                                                          co
Establish Program & Undeteoke EWvcuo lion
Studies & Surveys                                                      lii   l     lollh   lii                     _    lii  liii liii                      o 1     oglel l ll       liii
Subboan/CB Loon Dsbursements                         _      _     _i i l___
End Use Verfation d Subloans byv CB &
Retoil Bank                                                                                                                                                    _
S. POUCY STUDIES
EstfobshCnteria for Subsidy Plase-out & Folow up                                                l ll l   ml_i rlll
St   of Assislance to Low ncome Groups &
Follow-up                                                                                some lmll illegi
Study on Expanslon d Banking Services In Rural
Aels &Folow-up                                             _           _      _      _vlI i              oi ii g g ioo li  i   imem gl ll illui lmll  Ii1 iimill lmmll  lil
Review dCB RediscountingPdlles & Fc4!owvup                 l_l _        _      _            s         liisi  lill liii YSss     iiirg    mm.. isss   un alii   11111 1
Study on Crop/Sublcan Insurance                                                                 liii l  S         1S11Y
Propare Technical Guidelines far Prolect Lending
& Update Policy Monual                                                    Ol ier    
C. STAFf TRAINING
Complefe Suey d  oming Needs & Caxnuct
techers Training PForom
Preparo TraIing Progam
Connduct training Couses for CB & Retail Bank
Stant                                                                                                                                                  i    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _i__ l  mmii ""' I;
Legendi
etuActual Implementation d Project ActMry mi    dddE  Fallow-up Action toContinue or ActMts Subject to RevIew
VJorld BorJk-27282



-109                                                 CHART 2
PHIUPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDf[ PROJECT
Flow of Prject Furn
IB Lonn
ca.Aoc,jtwoI
Loan Fund
l~~~~~~~~~l
j Rald~~eor
Ir%ta 8anks
N'.
Logen     o
SubwcrW#In to
_._ ~4._
r,etdi dankL Combtrid, rural & govrnet spckiIzed bonim
WoWd Boar-27144



- 110 -
CHART 3
PHIUPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDfT PROJECT
Central Bank of the Philippines
Organzation
Ofic  f ebil  SR Of¶     OGl l|
Fund CifOtm                           flcs                    eprteg              litC  'o.             Ririy            werI evre
IF                    I                                                     Unit I
I         OillceoIIhe I                  f imeothe           I        ffcectle           I        fcfc  fIt  I
G overnclOrk          Dep   GIvernor               Depdiy Governor             DepyGov       r IeputD Gpue r0o
(AmorcSector  I         (Ineo notWonal  c oowl(D   rd                            Ah~S111ctlveMi (Sr,ld MOfl
Opelotions Secto)           Opetollom Sector)           MalgSlrt Sewtor)            FEz otirUon Sector)
- d rrel  Q   ||Mnt Impodrt&
Drod           Commodity Clot-G                Dep ortmentGo                                                    o
onim~ ~ io  ffc
DscormenofDpatmn
Economfic ResearCh
(Doescnl )                                                                                                           SE
oreign  Mxoncg   O-                                                                          Deeamr  D
Depa ~      ~         Dpo 
Econiomic Rese=c
(111"_ernottVA)            Foreign                                                                                     SES
hltongement or
ErderiDo DeEre&
Invest_ ent ACCO irtt
'CeErL Dov_. La Unionl & locloErOri
World Bonk-26MP



PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Bank Organization for Project Implementation
Central Bank of the Phllppines
Monetarv or
|Presientiol Comtnittee   _____-              _______=
on Agricut-ol- - - - - ---- -.
AL.F Policy                     Deputy   DoetiOpernot
A4visoy Group     -     eseac  ector               s o ectIcoert                            Examinat Lpeion Sd&
BC         -      Speciol Asoant                                  Special AsAistont           Ca
toGoemr                                       to GoCeMr                InsZitut]
(Technical Staff)
ID.r ctor             DLDecta                                           ctcs -DE
Deportment of                                SES Dep_L   ntsrn
EconmicRsearh   -     o n & C-recitLI&
CONSILTAT1M MECI1ANIS.
Governffwt        Commod6ity Boords      Trode Orgni&ofi          Arsson  Dinector
Agwncbs               & Trodeo           tbnsod Retail               ALF Unit
OfgonzotlonW Bonks
DiPrtsslonol Ch|   Plolamirg &                   Adc$untls                                                        I!
1  95oto             1 96ptStaff     Suppor tf    vot staff1
World 13ank-27143



IBRD 18786
)-    (IAll IAItIIN 4II INIII INCI                  120                                                 1W4-
HY t(1 (H;lAl'IIK'AL Itl'  I)NS
NCR   %All l.AlA llAl NI
I ILIX-L,              VI Wt-%IIFtNVt'IAYAS                                 -
I IIOOOSNOIIE3d Akian
A|V i                3'i Ca p                                                                                 PHILIPPINES
-?0-  4M/in5|u                  1l A1llu                                                        AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT  7'-
,.UfI ,                 NiegiruOcc.dnatal
LaUn.t           VI1 %I RAI VLISYAS-                                                         NETWORK OF BANK OFFICES
t I 'u.  %VALU   bohtI                                     -                                        0     MAJOR CITIES
_dIun                4; SU,pr,                112                                                          O     AIRPORT S
Capyan          VIII A%II-k% VISN'ASA           264                                                        -     ROADS
KAlsngaApayao       -I  N                                                                               -rth"Smanr  A5  RAILWAYS
1  Iael.             11? Wtm I, s.r., '1.2.-                     "r                                              PROVINCIAL t3OUNDARIES
i-UI                411 L   .ta4Smwn  -a                            -       A                          -         REGIONAL BOUNOARIES
Iuiv" V. cAY *           Leyt e                                                                             -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
: Ouirrno              .3 Sawulhtrn Leayt.       Loong                 )      ,    I
I  I N I RAL LUZOIN  IX WI Si I RN MIANUTAt                                                                  102    COMMERCIAL BANKS
NuevuEcija               ZamlwwmderlNorte                            l                                     11    THRIFT BANKS
] TaVbei.'  ZOdtshnq n4    Se                          f                                                            SPECIALIZED GOVERNMAENT BANKS
' Pmnoan'qu                Sulu                                                                                     RURAL BANKS
'133ul tn' Tow.-Tawl                                                     I Ildn t                                            O r 3s
B- eeUn           X  NU%R I Ill t %ISI N IIASAUI                                                                          H
IV N(htitIll k'9 IAI.AtN X   : Agu,n del Nurle  Son                   -
Aurura                  AqIum del Sur   Fhrnondo
(luelm           ~~~~Bukidinn
-'  s,tid                  Cmmum                          Ba g                                            0     50   100   150  20D   250   300
6 a*' u                  Misais Occdental       -                                           KIltE 1                                                          IC
Laprie         *: ~~~MI..0msO.menila                                                       MILES.
'atan_         Suqmu d  "Nrre.                                                                         C         SO        100      tSO       200
! Mannduquw          A  I ASILRN 'MINIDANAOI                    Jo,    '
Mindoro Ofrental     '  DIvio del Notre        Iloc l         oo
Mindoro Occdr mela    ' Diao Ortnhml         'abOntUOn
'Ronbton             "     4 Damo ded SWe    Angelvs   . 1
Palissna                South Cotablo 
V  RR'UL                       S - u!gmo del Sur  )longaP  °
CI n4It .en Node   XII SO1UTIIIIRN MIINDAN%AU     N      R     MANILA        14d                         1 ,P ,         .V i'       5 J       A
C.m mie,  Sur        '  Lnwno del Norte
1Ctunduaon                Lmnio dd Sur
Albmy                    Moru danao                                  Pg biln _
SoJ OW -run              North Coubto            |.-
Mrnl,ivn                 Sulta Kudwa'
274 *     _       :  -oop. !''   
S CUTHI  C-/N.A  /IV 
S ~           ~            1 E A                                                                           rns >\M'','a 
31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
VI~~~~~~~~I
~~~V; 1-1/'- '           ,bull 24 I 
0Puerto                                                                                                     7
P'.ncesao                                                                                    ur.00
OiETNAM         .. .                                                                                                          X8
~~|I XPN ,.5--Z\/IL|1QI"Ie.
P4 AR4AEW r-                                              Ij                                                   I           ntos 
{        2'\'~~~~- ' : 3'v.-AA3 O                          .-                                   .       :-
1' u*       ?    -;                                  j"
MARCH19F



