Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9937
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2570-PH)
SEPTEMBER 30, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency: Peso P
Rate of Exchange (Average)
Appraisal September 1984  US$ 1..00 - P20.00
1985           - P18.61
1986           - P20.39
1987           - P20.57
1988           - P21.095
1989           - P21.737
ACRONYMS
ACPC      Agricultural Credit Policy Council
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ALF       Agricultural Loan Fund
ALFPAG    Agricultural Loan Fund Project Advisc-y Group
ALFU       Agricultural Loan Fund Unit
AMDAC     Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers/Distributors
Accreditation Committee
AMTEC      Agricultural Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center
ARF       Agrarian Reform Fund
CALF       Comprehensive Agricultural Loan Fund
CBI       Central Bank Institute
CBP       Central Bank of the Philippines
DA         Department of Agriculture
DBP       Development Bank of the Philippines
CFSME     Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium Enterprises
GOP        Government of Philippines
IGLF      Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
LBP       Land Bank of the Philippines
NBQB      Non-Banks Performing Quasi-Banking Functions
NEDA      National Economic Development Authority
PCA       Philippine Coconut Authority
PCIC      Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation
PCR       Project Completion Report
PFI       Participating Financial Institution
QGFB      Quedan Guarantee Fund Board
RFSP      Rural Financial Services Project
SES        Supervision and Examination
STD       Special Time Deposit
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WAIR      Weighted Average of Interest Rates
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha       hectare (2.47 acres)
mt       metric tons (2204 pounds)



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington DC 20433
USA
04f.  c   Df irecioq.Ceo,al
O°patms Evaluat'nn
September 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on PHILIPPINES
A ricultural Credit Proiect (Ln.2570-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on the Philippines: Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 2570-PH)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be r ed by r-"inD  c iv in ti- r fnrwr r -



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILLIPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2570-PH)
Table of Contents
Pare No.
Preface         .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .
A.  Project identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . .
D.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . .               2
E.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              2
F.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               4
G.  Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6
H.  Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6
I.  Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6
J.  Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              7
K.  Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               7
L.  Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . .               8
M.  Cofinancier's Comments on the Project . . . . . . . .               8
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .                 9
A. Background                           .9
B. Implementation .10
C.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              17
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                22
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . .              22
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              23
3. Loan Disbursements               ..24
4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              27
5.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .              28
A. Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             28
B. Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
6.  Project Results ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
A.  Direct Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              30
B.  Economic Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              31
C. Financial Impact .32
D. Studies .33
7.  Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              35
8.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              38
A.  Staff Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             38
B.  Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF APPENDICES
1. Revalued ALF Balance Sheet as at February 28, 1991
2.  Currency Devaluation, Inflation and Interest Rates under ALF
3.  Characteristic., of ALF Loan Availments
Map IBRD 22431



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILLIPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2570-PH).
Preface
This is the Project Completion F.eport (PCR) for the Agricultural Credit
Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 2570-PH in the amount of US$100.0
million was approved on June 6, 1985. The loan was fully disbursed on October
10, 1989, 14 months ahead of schedule, and was formally closed on October 31,
1989.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Asia Regional Office,
and Part II by the Borrower.   The PCR is based, inter alia, on a completion
report from the Central Bank of the Philippines in July 1990; the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Banc and  he Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and field work by a
Bank completion mission in February-March 1991. In March 1991, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) undertook an Impact Evaluation Study
of its Rural Financial Services Project, through which parallel cofinancing was
provided for Loan 2570-PH, and the findings were discussed with USAID and taken
into account in preparing this PCR.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILLIPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2570-PH)
Evaluation Sumsmary
Objectives
1.        The Agricultural Credit Project's main objectives were to help foster
econorumc recovery through provision of agricultural credit, and to introduce
policy and institutional reforms necessary for self-sustaining financial
intermediationi in the rural sector.   The Bank loan provided funds totalling
US$100 million over a four-year period for seasonal, medium and long-term credit
through a newly established rediscounting facility, the Agricultural Loan Fund
(ALF); studies in support of policy and institutional reforms and preparation of
a future project; and training of project-related staff and technical assistance
to the Central Bank of the Philippines (CBP).  The United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) provided parallel cofinancing through a grant
of US$20 million.
Implementation Experience
2.        The loan was fully disbursed 14 months ahead of schedule.  Four studies
were completed within the project period, although behind schedule because of
contracting delays, and two other studies were not undertaken. As a result of
the World Bank's 1988 Financial Sector Review, the Government agreed to move the
ALF from the CBP to the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP); the transfer took
about two years to finalize.
3.        Generally the Borrower performed well under the project, until late
1989 when staffing of the ALF Unit (ALFU) at CBP was reduced in anticipation of
the transfer to LBP. The Loan Agreement was adequate a;.d the Staff Appraisal
Report provided a useful framework for both the Bank and CBP to follow. Reports
from the ALFU to the Bank were generally on time and contained all necessary
data. The CBP prepared a comprehensive completion report in a timely fashion.
Relationships among t.he CBP, the Bank and USAID were generally good. The USAID
undertook an Impact Evaluation Study of a parallel project in March 1991, and the
findings were taken into account in preparing this PCR.
Results
4.        Overall, the project succeeded in meeting its principal objectives.
It provided much needed medium- and long-term credit for agricultural investment,
which was chronically under-funded from formal sources. Lending and investment



- iv -
under the project were greater than envisaged at appraisal, at over P5 billion
(about US$250 million) during 1985-89. Over 2,00') borrowers benefited from the
main investments, which were in agro-processing (36%), poultry and livestock
(20%), fisheries (15%), seasonal crops (25%) and plantation crops (4%).  The
project was reasonably dive asified geographically. Commercial banks handled 72%
of funds, thrift bankE 25%, and government and rural banks the rest. Sub-loans
averaged P2.65 million (about US$123,000), and 95% of sub-loans were for
expansion of existix:g enterprises rather than new businesses.
5.        For smaller scale borrowers, particularly in the rural areas, the
availability of ALF funding encouraged in--estments which would probably not
otherwise have been made. For larger commercial borrowers, ALF was an attractive
source, although it is less clear how much direct incrementality was involved.
Indirectly, however, there was probably considerable additionality, as the influx
of project funds would have encouraged increased investment in the entire sector.
6.        Loan recoveries under the ALF program have been very good and, as ALF
sub-loans were fully collateralized, most minor arrears should be collected.
This represents a positive change from the results of earlier Bank agricultural
credit projects in the Philippines.
7.        CBP has withdrawn  from  subsidized  rediscounting  to agritulture.
Rediscounting rates charged under the project were positive in real terms and
more market-oriented than previous CBP rediscount rates. While they exceeded the
average cost of money to banks at the wholesale level, they were below effective
marginal wholesale rates.  Both the PFIs and sub-borrowers ber sited financially
from the project. Financial results to the CBP were less attractive, however,
because its interes rates, calculated on the estimated break-even cost of funds,
both under-estimated Peso devaluations and did not take account of dollar
devaluation against the basket of currencies borrowed from the World Bank.
8.        The four studies undertaken were generally useful, although many of
their recommendations did not fall within CBP's jurisdiction and therefore could
not be implemented under the project. Nevertheless, they provided a framework
for the ongoing rural bank rehabilitation program and expansion of rural credit,
and they  formed the basis for policies to raise crop insurance premia and
eliminate subsidies. Staff training was generally satisfactory.
9.        The delay in moving the ALF to LBP caused a hiatus in ALF financing and
erosion of ALFU staff. Review of loan applications became less thorough, and
delays in processing ALF loans increased, amounting by March 1991 to about 10
months. However, this problem should be resolved shortly, with the assistance
of a recently negotiated follow-up Bank loan to LBP.
Sustainability
10.       The ALF program  is  sustainable,  in principle,  provided LBP  is
successful with continued resource mobilization (both internal and external).
The fact that the CBP withdrew its funds when ALF was transferred to LBP, without



-v -
any immediate action by the Government to replace the resources, temporarily
threatened the continuity of the ALF.
Findings and Lessons '.earned
11.       The project has made a substantial positive contribution  to the
institutional development of the rural credit sector in the Philippines, by
helping to support necessary changes in refinancing arrangements and providing
much needed funding for medium- and long-term credit. Ths3 following are the main
lessons to be drawn from the experience of implementing this project.
(a)       A market determined financial environment, especially with respect to
allocation of funds and interest rate movements, led inter alia, to a
greater volume of lending and investments under the project than had
been envisaged at appraisal.
(b)       Loan repayment rates under the project were, and continue to be, very
good (100% for CBP and over 95% for the PFIs), mainly because: (i)
the sub-loan credit risk rests with the PFIs; (ii) the PFIs have been
free to select their sub-borrowers without Government intervention;
and (iii) the quality of staff and management in the CBP and the PFIs
was satisfactory.
(c)       While the decision to transfer the ALF rediscounting facility out of
CBP may have been an appropriate step from the standpoint of overall
financial sector development and rationalization of central banking
functions, both the Government and the Bank should have paid closer
attention to planning the details of such major institutional changes
to avoid possible adverse operational effects and disruption of
services.



PRCiECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILLIPINES
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2570-PH)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BAMK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name                    : Agricultural Credit Project
Loan Number             : 2570-PH
RVP Unit                : Asia Regional Office
Country                 : Philippines
Sector                  : Agriculture
Sub-sector              : Credit
B. Background
1.01     The Philippines financial sector has traditionally been dominated by
commercial banks, which concentrated on fully collateralized short-te-m lending.
In the late 1970s, most financing for small farmers was in the torm of subsidized
directed credit, which was rediscounted by the government. The loan collection
experience -nder these programs was poor, with the result that the rural bank4ng
system came under increasing stress from about 1975 onwards. In 1982 the World
Bank undertook an agricultural credit study in the Philippines, which focused
on the limited supply of medium- and long-term agricultural credit, institutional
weaknesses, and deficiencies in government credit policies. Particular attention
was drawn to the wide use of credit-cum-extension programs with subsidized
interest rates, which placed heavy demands on the financial and managerial
capabilities of participating banks. Following this sector study, the Government
of Philippines (GOP) and the Central Bank of the Philippines (CBP) agreed to
implement a package of policy and institutional reforms generally aimed at the~
elimination of regulated interest rates for agriculture, phasing out of
government subsidies on agricultural credit, expansion of banking services in
rural areas, and initial measures to address the problems of sub-loan arrearages.
However, actual implementation of these decisions was delayed for a few years by
the fact that the Philippines went through a serious financial crisis during
1983-85, which substantially reduced the real value of private savings and
sharply decreased the liquidity of the banking system, putting a further squeeze
on  the  already  limited  availability  of medium-  and  long-term  funds  fcr
agriculture.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.02     Against the background of the agricultural credit study and the
financial crisis (para. 2.1), the project's main objecti es were to help foster
economic recovery through provision of seasonal and investment credit to the
agricultural sector; establish an appropriate institutional policy framework and
systems to support the development of a financially sound rural credit system;



-2-
and increase the capacity of rural credit institutions to mobilize rural savings
and improve the efficiency of their farm credit operations through interest rate
reforms, reforms in CBP rediscounting policies, and strategies for expansion of
banking services in rural areas. The Agricultural Credit Project provided funds
over a four-year period for:
(a)      seasonal, medium- and long-term credit for tLle agricultural sector;
(b)      studies in support of policy and institutional reforms and preparation
of a future project; and
(c)      training of project-related staff and technical assistance to CBP.
1.03     The Project was complemented by parallel co-financing of US$20 million
from the USAID through its Rural Financial Services Projec- (USAID RFSP No. 492-
0394). The USAID financing was i.aitiall- approved as a loan, but was converted
to a grant in 1987.
D. Project DesiRn and Organization
1.04     The Agricultural Credit Project supported GOP's move away from direct
subsidized credit and towards; a more sustainable rur.-  financial sector.  Its
maIn financial thrust was to establish the Agricultural Loan Fund (ALF), which
was a facility managed by C. P to provide a rediscounting window for agricultural
credit through sound financial intermediaries. The project was prepared by CBP
in collaboration with other GOP agencies and the trade organizations of
commercial, thrift and rural banks, with the assistance of World Bank staff. The
intent was both to make ALF operational and concurrently to introduce policy and
institutional reforms essential for viable financial i'atermediation in the rural
sector. ALF would rediscount individual sub-loans by accredited Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs) for up to about 80% of project cost.  Sub-loan
repayments would be returned to ALF to permit additional rediscounting
operations.  In the initial phase, ALF resource- were built up by drawdown of the
World Bank loan (US$100 million) and part of the USAID grant ''1S$17.4 million).
A further US$13.4 million was provided by CBP. In addition, six specific studies
were to be undertaken and a training program carried out for both CBP and PFI
staff within the Central Bank Institute (CBI).   The project as a whole was
overseen by the Agricultural Loan Fund Project Advisory Group (ALFPAG) which
comprised CBP Deputy Governors with groups of advisors from other participating
GOP  agencies.    The  day-to-day  operations  of ALF were  undertaken  by  an
Agricultural Loan Fund Unit (ALFU) specifically set up within CBP, and act'ng as
a secretariat for ALFPAG.
E. Proiect Implementation
1.05     Loan Effectiveness and Prolect Start-up.  Loan 2570-PH was signed on
June 10, 1985. No undue delays occurred and effectiveness was declared on August
16, 1985. The first drawdown under the project, a transfer of US$10 million into
a special account, was applied for on October 17, 1985.



-3-
1.06     ImpLementation Schedule.  The project was expected to be completed by
December 31, 1989, with a Closing Date of December 31, 1990. It was actually
completed ahead of time, with the final drawdown in October 1989. Four studies
under  the project,  covering  (a)  rediscounting  policy  and arrearages,  (b)
government assistance to low income groups, (c) crop/ sub-loan insurance, and (d)
strategies for expansion of banking services in the rural areas, were all
completed in 1987, which was within the project period but behind the original
target dates envisaged at negotiations. Neither the updating of a manual on term
lending nor the preparation of a future agricultural credit project were
undertaken during the project period, although these activities did take pla,.e
subsequently iTn preparation for a follow-up Bank project.  It had been agreed
during supervision in July 1986 that updating of the manual would be handled by
the USAID general contractor which was also uXidertaking a r.amber of parallel
studies. Subsequently the priorities of USAID and its general contractor changed
and this work was not done.   Preparation of a follow-up project was not
undertagen at the time mainly because, as a result of a World Bank Financial
Sector Review in 1988, GOP agreed that ALF would be moved from CBP, but
finalizing arrangements for the eventual transfer to the Land Bank of the
Philippines (LBP) took about two years. Once it had become clear that CBP would
not continue to administer the ALF, the staff in the ALFU became depleted and CBP
demonstrated less interest in a follow-on project. On the other hand, LBP was
not in a position to work on preparation of a subsequent project until such time
as it h--d actually assumed responsibility for ALF.   The take-over was not
finalized antil July 1990 (after the Agricultural Credit Project had closed), at
which time LBP actually began to prepare the follow-up Rural Finance Project.
1.07     Procurement.  As this was a credit project, most procurement was by
prudent local shopping, overseen to a limited extent by the PFIs. Verification
of the purpose for which. funds were used was -undertaken by ALFU on a sample
basis. Funds were generally shown to have been used for their intended purposes.
With the exception of one of the studies which was awarded to a local consultant
following procurement procedures approved by the Bank, the other studies and
training were undertaken by GOP agencies. Overall procurement under the project
appears to have been satisfactory, although there was a three-month delay on the
rforementioned consultancy procurement, due to the need to readvertise the
contract specifying that it was open to both Filipino and international
consultants.
1.08     Project cost.  At appra4sal an estimate of project cost was made by
adding the total amount of seasonal inputs against w.iich credit was lilely to be
given for one year to estimates of medium- and long-term investment items to be
funded by the project over a four-year period. On this basis, the total project
cost was estimated at US$183 million, including US$0.5 million for studies and
training.   Defined in this way,  the ex-post project cost is difficult to
estimate. While the contributions made by World Bank, USALD, CBP and PFIs are
known or can be estimated fairly closely, there is no sure means of estimating
the sub-botrowers' own contributions.   On the basis of the average reported
"owner equity" contribution to projects by sub-borrowers (42%), as measured by
CBP on a sample of projects in its terminal report, total "project cost"



-4-
including the USAID project, was about US$300 million'!.  Of this, US$87 million
were investments supported by short-term loans (the 1989 level of disbursements),
US$209 million were medium- and long-term investments supported by credit
disbursed between 1986-89, and US$3.1 million were studies and training. The
reason for the ex-post estimate of project cost being higher than that projected
at appraisal was largely due to a substantially greater investment in medium- and
long-term credit than initially projected and a higher estimate of "owner equity"
(42% compared with 18%), which allowed the limited resource of borrowed funds to
be spread over a wider investment.   Since a significant part of this "owner
equity" actually represents existing assets, the project cost defined in this way
is probably not all truly new investment.
1.09     At the end of 1989, ALF assets were just over P3 billion, including
F2.3 billion in the form of loans to local banks9 F0.2 billion as an
international  revaluation  reserve,  and  p0.5 billion  in  cas:.  and  other
investmeo'ts. Because the Peso depreciated less against the dollar between 1986
and !989 than implicitly projected at appraisal!', the total Peso value of the
ALF at end-1989 was about the same as the appraisal estimate, despite the fact
that US$17.4 million, which had not been taken into account at appraisal, was
contributed by USAID in addition to the World Bank's US$100 million.
1.10     Disbursements.  The estimated disbursements of Ln. 2570-PH are given
in Part  III,  Table  3.   Although they started more  slowly than planned,
disbursements accelerated and were completed in October 1989, compared with the
appraisal  estimate  of  December  1990.    The  Loan  Agreement  provided  for
US$0.5 million of disbursements under Category 3, (consultants' services and
training), but undisbursed funds from this category were reallocated to Category
1 or 2, because of GOP's preference to use the USAID grant rather than loan funds
for technical assistance and studies.
F.  Prolect Results
1.11     Overall the project was successful in meeting its principal objectives
of stimulating private agricultural sector investment and encouraging CBP to
withdraw from subsidized rediscounting to agriculture. Numerous earlier direct
credit lines were merged to establish a Comprehensive Agricultural Loan Fund
(CALF), which has been used to support several guarantee programs, to help
enhance the creditworthiness of borrowers and reduce the arrearages of banks'
lending to this sector. Sections 2.04 (a) and (b) of the Guarantee Agreement
were not fully complied with in that some eubsidized credit to agriculture still
exists, although about 93% of all rural credit is now extended at market
determined rates, which is a vast improvement over the pre-project situation.
The policy studies on arrearages and rtral credit development provided a
framework for the ongoing rural bank rehabilitation project and the expansion of
1/ If owner equity were estimated at 20% of investment, project cost would be US$217 million.
21 Appraisal projection was P25 = US$1 for end 1989 compared with an actual figure of P22.5
Us$1.



-5-
viable retail rural credit outlets; the studies on insurance formed the basis for
policies of the Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation (PCIC) to raise premia and
eliminate subsidies.
1.12     The flow of lending and investment under the project was higher than
envisaged at appraisal, with over P5 billion being lent between 1985 and 1989.
Over this period, 2,013 borrowers benefited from the project, with the main
investments being for agro-processing (36%), poultry and livestock (20%),
fisheries (15%), and seasonal crops, mainly sugar and banana (25%). The project
was reasonably diversified geographically, although 32% of sub-loan amounts were
made in Region III (Central Luzon). Some 72% of funds were handled by commercial
banks, with 25% going to thrift banks, 2% to government banks and 1% only to
rural banks. Sub-loan sizes averaged F2.65 million (US$123,000) and 95% of sub-
loans were for expansion of existing enterprises rather than new businesses. 3/
1.13     Rediscounting rates under the project were positive in real terms and
were more market-oriented than previous CBP rediscount rates. Furthermore, they
exceeded the average cost of money to banks at the wholesale level. They were,
however, below effective marginal wholesale rates (i.e. the cost of time deposits
plus cost of mobilization).   As a result, both the PFIs and sub-borrowers
benefited financially from the project,±I at the expense of the CBP.  Project
interest rates were set on the basis of the estimated break-even cost of funds,
taking account of the estimated average devaluation of the Peso against the US
dollar and the nominal World Bank interest rate.   In the event,  the Peso
devaluation was underestimated and the devaluation of the dollar against the
basket of currencies borrowed (18.15% as at January 15, 199:) was not taken into
account.
1.14      Loan recoveries under the ALF program were very good, both by the CBP
(100%) and at the retail level by PFIs (e.g. during 1989 amounts collected by
PFIs are estimated to hive been over 95% of sums due and collectable, while as
a percentage of principal, arrears to PFIs were reported at 1.4%). As ALF sub-
loans were fully collateralized, it is anticipated that most of the arrears will
be collected.   This represents a very welcome and positive change from the
results of earlier Bank agricultural credit projects in the Philippines.
1.15     At the direct level of the individual commercial borrower ALF was an
attractive funding source, raising the possibility that it may have been accessed
for eligible investments that would have been made anyway, although this is not
certain given the extreme shortage of medium- and long-term financing at the
time. Because the ALF operating manual allowed permanent working capital loans
to be rediscounted, without clearly defining that the working capital should be
incremental, ALF became particularly attractive to agri-businesses during 1989
and 1990, when the ALF rediscount rate was below the cost of alternative
3 Characteristics of the ALF Loans are detailed in Appendix 3.
For details of interest rates, inflation and benefits to sub-borrowers and PFIs see Part III,
Appendix 2.



6
financing sources.   For borrowers  from rural and  thrift banks,  however,
particularly in the rural areas, the availability of ALF funding definitely
encouraged investments to be made which would not otherwise have taken place.
Indirectly, there was also probably considerable additionality from the program.
Total capital needs in the agricultural sector are very high compared with formal
credit availability, so that the addition of about US$130 million of new money
provided under the project was easily absorbed and would have encouraged
increased total investment in the sector, whether or nor in those projects
directly funded by the ALF.
G. Prolect Sustainability
1.16     The ALF program is sustainable in that it can continue to function
usefully, although substantial additional financial resources will be required.
To remain sustainable, interest rates charged need to be periodically adjusted
to market rate indicators which better reflect changes in the Peso value vis-a-
vis foreign currencies. These changes are being implemented under the follow-up
project.
H. Bank Performance
1.17     Through the Agricultural Credit Project, the Bank made a substantial
positive contribution to the institutional development of the rural credit sector
in the Philippines.  It helped to support a necessary change in refinancing
systems and provided much needed funding for medium- and long-term credit. The
main weaknesses of the Bank's performance have been in the following areas:
(a)      In retrospect, to reflect true costs and minimize the foreign exchange
risk, a better indicator of market rates should have been used to
determine the formula for setting the interest rates to the PFIs.
Eventually, after prodding by the Bank, CBP adopted this methodology
and LBP will implement it under the follow-up project.
(b)      Because of the Bank's recommendation to move the ALF out of CBP,
followed by indecisiveness and delays in determining the institution
to which ALF should be transferred and the operational arrangements,
a hiatus occurred, leading by March 1991 to a backlog of demand for ALF
loans of about 10 months  Again, this problem will be resolved through
the follow-up project.
I. Borrower Performance
1.18     Generally the Borrower performed well under the project, until late
1989 when the decision was made to transfer ALF out of CBP. Staff of the ALFU
were depleted, making it impossible to review loan applications with the same
thoroughness as previously. This meant that several large sub-loans to agro-
industries were approved without full compliance with the requirements of the



-7-
operating manual.5'  Most of the findings of the project studies, which went
well beyond the remit of CBP, were not implemented within the framework of the
project, although some have been taken up subsequently.   With the benefit of
hindsight, a narrower definition of the terms of reference of the consulting
studies would have been more appropriate. Better coordination between the legal
department of CBP, which understood that the World Bank loan was repayable in a
range of currencies, and the ALFU which was responsible for the calculation of
the break-even interest rate, might have resulted in an earlier revision of the
interest rate formula and therefore in a lower potential cost of this project to
CBP.   The withdrawal of CBP funds from the ALF,  before negotiation of the
replacement of these by LBEF, exacerbated the present problem of queuing for ALF
funds.
J. Project Relationship
1.19      Tue relationships among the World Bank, CBP and USAID on the project
have been generally good.
K. Consulting Services
1.20      The  policy  study  on  rediscounting  and  arrearages  was  undertaken
internally by CBP; the broadly based study on rural credit development was done
by a local consulting firm, SGV/C. Virata & Co.; the study on financial support
for the very poor was carried out by the National Ecoromic Development Authority
(NEDA); and the studv on systems for safeguarding rural financial institutions
by the PCIC.  In all cases, there was a lengthy period before terms of reference
were finalized and the work program agreed, which led to delays in
implementation.  The overall impression left is that these studies were generally
useful  and  all  were  approved  by  ALFPAG.    However,  while  some  of  the
recommendations have been acted upon by CBP, many of them were of a broader
ranging nature and so did not fall under CBP's jurisdiction.
1.21      Training for more than 1,000 PFI and CBP staff was provided through CBI
courses under the project. Generally the training provided under the project was
carried out satisfactorily, although the recent SGV/C. Virata/USAID Impact
Evaluation Study suggests there were gaps in the subject matter covered and that
the institutional benefits to CBI itself (e.g. manuals, materials and development
of their own staff) were limited.
5/ The policy manual required financial analysis to be undertaken on sub-loans over Fl million,
economic analysis to be undertaken on sub-loans over P5 million, and prior approval of the CBP and
the World Bank to be obtained for sub-loans in excess of PIO and P20 million respectively. After
the World Bank loan had been fully disbursed, the Bank's prior approval was no longer required and
ex-post review of a sample of sub-loans in excess of P20 million disbursed during this period
indicated that adequate financial and economic analysis, as prescribed by the manual, had not been
undertaken on those sub-loans.



-8 -
L.  Project Documentation and Data
1.22     The Loan Agreement was adequate; the Staff Appraisal Report provided
a useful framework for both the Bank and CBP to follow; and CBP prepared a
comprehens4ve terminal report (a precis of which comprises Part II of this
report) in a timely fashion. Reports from the ALFU to the Bank were generally
on time and contained all necessary data. The main area in which project data
was less than satisfactory concerned the financial and economic performance of
sub-projects. Analysis on this performance was carried out by CBP at the end of
the project period, br., it was unable to compare adequately the "with project"
and "without project" scenarios which would have been necessary to make a
comprehensive ex-post economic evaluation of the project. In future, this kind
of analysis needs to be based on continuous in-depth monitoring of a sample of
project sub-loans.
M. Cofinancier's Comments on the Project
1.23     USAID's Impact Evaluation Study dated March 1991, commissioned from
SGV/C. Virata, concluded that its Rural Financial Services Project was a success
with respect to its goal and purpose, in that foreign exchange was transferred
to the Philippines, while facilitating implementation of market-oriented reforms
in the rural financial sector.   The project led to policy reforms either
directly, as part of the loan covenants, or indirectly, as recommendations of the
RFSP-assisted policy studies, it has also identified areas for additional
reforms.



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PRSPECTIVE~'
A. Background
2.01     The Agricultural Cred't Project (Loan No. 2570-PH) and the USAID grant
agreement were intended to support the GOP's thrusts for economic stabilization,
recovery and growth as well as to introduce policy and institutional reforms
essential for self-sustaining financial intermediation in the rural sector. The
project was to channel funds through the CBP to finance the seasonal production
and investment credit needs of a wide range of agricultural and agro-processing
activities through qualified retail PFIs.  The project differed from earlier
IBRD-assisted rural credit operations which were generally commodity- and
institution-specific.   This arrangement facilitated a wider participation in
agricultural lending of financial intermediaries which included commercial,
thrift, rural banks (RBs) and specialized government banks (SGBs) as well as
selected non-banks performing quasi-banking functions (NBQBs).  Moreover, it
introduced flexibility in the use of project funds and increased the leverage by
which the CBP introduced policy and institutional reforms.
2.02     The project was formulated by the CBP with the assistance of World Bank
Staff and in-house task forces which worked in collaboration with other GOP
agencies and trade organizations of commercial, thrift and rural banks. There
were two major components: (a) a credit component to support seasonal production
credit and investment in agriculture-based loans extended by retail lending
institutions to the rural sector; and (b) an institutional development component
to assist the GOP identify and implement policy changes and institutional
reforms. The credit component was to be onlent by the CBP to qualified PFIs at
market-oriented interest rates consistent with the criteria agreed upon with the
IBRD and the USAID. The foreign exchange risk had to be reflected in the CBP's
rediscount rates. The retail PFIs had to onlend the CBP funds blended with their
own funds at market-based interest rates. In this respect, the project was a
departure from previous credit programs which generally had subsidized interest
rates.
2.03     Apart from the basic loan covenants, the Loan Agreement provided for
a number of special covenants relating to seasonal production credit; policy
studies to be undertaken; staff training and technical assistance; machinery and
equipment; civil works; employment of consultants; accounts and audit; sub-loan
approval; the ALF Policy Manual; interest rates; the PFIs; monitoring and
evaluation; the Special Account; and the elimination of subsidies. By and large
the performance criteria were complied with satisfactorily, except for two
studies which were not undertaken, the first because of the imminent transfer of
6 This is a precis of the Project Completion Report dated June 30, 1990 prepared by the ALFU,
Department of Loans and Credit, CBP. The full document, which provides a comprehensive historical
account of the project is held in the World Bank's Implementation File.



-10_
the ALF from the CB? to the LBP; and the second because the USAID general
contractor's work priorities were changed and the work was deferred.
B. Implementation
2.04     Conditions for Loan Effectiveness and Start-up.   The loan became
effective on August 16, 1985 and all other actions relating to legal opinions,
authorized signatories and establishment and designation of staff of the ALFU and
members of the ALFPAG were completed and conveyed to the IBRD between October
1985 and January 1986.  In a supplementary letter to the World Bank, the CBP
expressed its commitment that the ALF operation financed with the loan would
receive priority in the CBP's overall credit program.
2.05     Organizational Arrangements.  The CBP's Department of Loans & Credit
took charge of the ALF program. Project funds were channelled to eligible banks
and NBQBs. Project appraisal and supervision were performed by the PFIs. The
ALFU became operational on July 2 1985 when the initial 16 members of the core
staff assuLmed duties. By December 31, 1985, 24 personnel were serving in the
ALFU with five vacancies that were never filled. As at December 31, 1989 staff
had declined to 13 after 11 resigned or transferred to other CBP units or other
GOP agencies following announcement of the projected transfer of the ALF to
another government agency. The ALFPAG was created in February 1985 comprising
three CBP Deputy Governors.   Following a joint World Bank/USAID Supervision
!         mission in November 1985, the ALFPAG was reorganized to include an expanded
membership of Ad Hoc Advisory Groups incorporating representatives from selected
government   agencies,   bankers'  associations   and  commodity  boards/trade
organizations.  The ALFPAG reviewed agricultural credit policies, programs and
institutions affecting the implementation of the ALF.
2.06      The CBP's training entity, the CBI, was primarily responsible for
project related training in coordination with the CBP's Department of Loans and
Credits.  Funds came from the institutional development component of US$2.6
million of the USAID grant. Training was in two categories: (a) trainers being
trained to help develop the institutional training capacity of banking
associations or federations participating in the ALF; and (b) technical,
managerial and staff development for ALF and rural financial institutions taking
part in ALF-financed lending activity. In close coordination with the General
Contractor under the USAID Project, additional training was given to key CBI
staff members as trainers in developing or formulating expanded training
curricula. Between 1985 and 1988, the CBI conducted seven different types of
training courses (case writing; ALF teachers' course; institutional appraisal;
ALF familiarization; ALF rural lending; basic computer; and project monitoring
& evaluation) for 849 participants.
2.07      In accordance with Schedule 5, Part B(4) of the Loan Agreement, the
Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers/Distributors Accreditation Committee (AMDAC)
was reorganized on July 13, 1985 to include as new members the Agricultural
Machinery Manufacturers and Distributors Association (AMMDA) and the Agricultural
Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center (AMTEC). The existing members were the
CBP, DBP, LBP and DA. The DBP and LBP were not allowed to participate in the ALF



- 11 
Program during its initial stage because they were then undergoing financial
restructuring and strengthening. They remained members of the AMDAC because they
were also engaged in other lending programs that involved financing of farm
machinery and equipment. Moreover, their long experience and expertise in the
appraisal and evaluation of applications for company as well as product and price
accreditation were invaluable to the operation of the Committee. As suggested
by the World Bank Supervision Mission, the CBP had assumed the permanent
Chairmanship of the Committee so as to provide the necessary direction in
formulating and implementing policies on farm machinery accreditation,
distribution and financing under the ALF. Unlike in the previous four CB-IBRD
Rural Credit Projects where an average of 30 machinery dealers or suppliers took
part, the lUDAC was not active under the ALF project because of the depressed
market for agricultural machinery.  The ALF posted an annual notice in major
international publications on the estimated volume and composition of
agricultural machinery requirements for the Philippines and invited manufacturers
and suppliers to seek accreditation with the AMDAC. A total of 37 foreign and
local manufacturers and suppliers responded to the advertisement.
2.08     Retail banks and NBQBs that complied with the ALF qualifying criteria
prescribed by the CBP with the World Bank's concurrence had access to ALF funds.
The CBP Supervision and Examination (SES) departments continuously evaluated the
qualifications and performance of the banks and NBQBs.  The eligibility criteria
for participation in the ALF and IGLF were realigned un the suggestion of the
World Bank Supervision Mission to correct the situation in which a financial
institution was eligible for ALF but not IGLF participation and vice versa.
Initially 142 banks (23 commercial banks, 41 thrift banks and 78 rural banks)
were recommended by the SES in August 1985 to participate in the ALF Program.
The list of qualified financial institutions was updated whenever the ALFU
received the results of SES evaluation of PFIs.  As of December 31, 1989 the
number of qualified financial institutions had declined significantly to 89 (21
commercial banks, 20 thrift banks, 46 rural banks, 1 NBQB and 1 specialized
government bank). The 37% reduction was principally due to arrearage problems
that affected the overall loan portfolios of these institutions.
2.09     A Special Account amounting to US$10 million was set up with the CBP
on October 17, 1985 in compliance with Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement.  An
initial drawdown of US$400,000 from the credit line was released on November 6,
1985. The Special Account was denominated in dollars and conversion to local
currency was done at the time of actual expenditure.
2.10     At the beginning of the project the project feasibility formats and
documentation required in the ALF Policy Manual evoked some adverse reactions
from the commercial banking sector which considered the documents voluminous and
complicated.    The  feasibility  study  and  documentation  requirements  were
simplified and revised and other aspects of the Policy Manual were revised, with
the concurrence of the World Bank, to make them more responsive to the purposes
of the program.
2.11     To promote awareness of the ALF Program, a primer on the program
implementation was prepared and circulated in 1985, the ALFU participated in



- 12 -
fairs, workshops and seminars in 1987 and 1988 and briefings were conducted, and
a country-wide information drive was undertaken in 1986 through five major daily
newspapers and 35 radio broadcasting stations.
2.12     Lending Terms and Conditions.  The interest rates on ALF loans to PFIs
were market-oriented and determined or the basis of the higher of:
(a)      cost of borrowing to the ALF, related administrative costs, and an
element of foreign exchange risk (Break-Even Cost or BEC); or
(b)      the weighted average cost of the banking system's demand, savings and
time deposits (WSTDR).
The rate which was reviewed quarterly was announced before the end of each
quarter and applied to all outstanding loans.
2.13      Credit implementation started when the Philippine economy was in a
liquidity squeeze and ALF loans to PFIs initially carried a relatively high
interest rate of 16.7%, without deposit mobilization cost.   The rate was
calculated by the CBP's Department of Economic Research and concurred with by the
Bank. As the economy improved, however, the rate came down and stabilized in
1987 and 1988 at 10%. From December 1985 the rates took into account the cost
of deposit mobilization as suggested by the Bank's Supervision Mission.   An
intermediation cost factor, which is a function of, and varies with, the required
level of reserves as well as with a series of other legislative and regulatory
requirements, was included in the ALF interest rate computation. This factor was
estimated for three ranges of interest rates as follows:
TABLE 1: INTERMEDIATION COST FACTOR
ALF Base Rate                    Intermediation Cost
Factor
10% and below                           1.0%
Between 10% and 15%                      1.5%
Over 15%                                2.0%
2.14      The years between 1986 and 1989 marked significant changes in the
political, financial and economic environments in the Philippines. There was a
turnlng point for investment in 1986 when, with the change in political
leadership, the GOP decided to withdraw from active competition with the private
sector.  In the next three years (1987-1989) there was unprecedented growth in
business activity creating a strong demand for credit from the private sector and
by the end of 1988 nominal interest rates rose in response to monetary restraint



- 13 -
measures implemented to stem liquidity growth, the rising inflation rate and the
availability of alternative high-yieldlng financial investments like T-Bills.
2.15     The spreads retained by PFIs on ALF-assisted  sub-loans were not
regulated so as to allow these intermediaries a profitable return on lending, and
to enable them to market their savings instruments with interest rates attractive
enough for savers to earn a rate of return on their deposits commensurate with
the risks in the financial system. The table below shows the range of sprea.'s
and lending rates by loan term and type of institution.
TABLE 2: PFIs' LENDING SPREADS BY LOAN TERM AND TYPE OF INSTITUTION
Spread (%)                     Lending Rate
I ____________       _ _ _____ _______    ________   _ _______ _  (%)_ ________
LOAN TERM            Minimumr   Maximum   Average   Minimum |  Maximum    Average
Short Term              1.50     19.30     5.08     11.50     30.00      15.95
Medium Term             1.90     12.69     5.52     12.03     24.70      16.48
Long Term               6.00     12.20     8.19     15.50     24.00     20.21
PFIs
CommerciaL Bank         1.50     11.80     5.17     11.50     24.00     16.25
Thrift Bank             2.02     19.30     5.40     12.03     30.00      16.07
Rural Bank              5.20     12.0C      7.86     16.00    25.00     18.76
NBOB                    5.50      7.50     6.00     15.50     17.50     16.00
SGB                     4.30     12.30     5.84      15.00    23.00     16.63
Overatl                 1.50     19.30     5.29      11.50    30.00     16.28
2.16     Elimination of Subsidies.   Under the IBRD Loan and the USAID Grant
Agreements, the interest rates on agricultural credit had to be market-based.
Accordingly, a program to phase out subsidies was adopted on three credit
categories, as follows:
(1)      Subsidies related to funds from the CBP's own resources were eliminated
in November 1985 when rediscount rates on eligible papers were realigned
to reflect market rates and loans generated from Special Time Deposits
(STDs) became no longer eligible for rediscounting.
(2)      There  were  27  special  funds  or  programs  channelled  through  and
administered by the CBP which were funded from domestic and foreign
sources. In December 1986 the many fragmented, separate funds for
agricultural lending were integrated into a single fund, the CALF which
was transferred from the CBP to the Agricultural Credit Policy Council
(ACPC) of the DA. The amount intended for lending was administered by the
LBP and the interest rates were aligned with ALF interest rates. The CALF



- 14 -
portion allccated for guarantee operations was channelled through the
Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium Enterprises (GFSME), Quedan Guarantee
Fund Board (QGFB) and the PCIC, in all of which the subsidy aspect was
automatically eliminated. Interest rates on other CBP-administered credit
programs fulnded by the USAID were aligned with market rates.
(3)       Other funds included funds administered by the GOP outside the banking
system.  As the implementing inctitutior.s were not within the jurisdiction
of the CEP and the programs were covered by specific agreements with
international or foreign organizations, it was difficult for the ALF to
eliminate subsidies effectively in these programs.
2.17      Policy Seudies.  Four of the policy studies identified under Schedule 2
Part B (1) of the Loan Agreement were carried out by the ALF and the recommendations
therein were confirmei bv ':he CBP Monetary Board as indicated in the table below.
Study                          Action on Recommendations                       J
Assistance to Low-income Groups with  Recommendations referred by the CBP Governor and the
Inadequate Access to Institutionat   Monetary Board to the GOP Departments or Agencies
Credit                         concerned for them to impLement or incorporate them in
their owr action programs.
Crop Insurance and S,Jpport to Banks  PCIC started to implement its own proposals by increasing
with Operations affected by Natural  the insurance coverage for cattle, carabao, swine and
Disasters                      poultry projects.
CBP Rediscounting Policies and  Some of the recommendations were adopted in the Rural Bank
Retail Bank Arrearages Problems  Rehabilitation Program.
Strategies for the Expansion of  Recommendations were co firmed by the CBP Monetary Board
Banking Services in Rural Areas  in January 1988 and referred to implementing agencies. An
Intra-CBP Task Force determined which of the acceptable
recomnendatiors to strengthen the rural financial system
could be irnediately adopted by the CBP, and which would
require legislative action.
2.18      Procedures and Standards.  The appraisal and approval of s--b-loans up to
the P1O million free limit were the responsibility of the PFIs. The ALF took direct
part in the appraisal and approval of sub-loans over P10 million and up to P20
million. Sub-loans over P20 million were made after World Bank approval. The ALF
moved away from individual sub-loan analysis, especially those within the Plo
million free limit, and, assisted by the SES Departments, made more rigorous
analyses of the PFIs by continuously monitoring their financial soundness and
eligibility to participate in the ALF. The PFIs were evaluated, inter alia, on the
basis of the quality of their loan portfolios and their ability to appraise
agricultural loans and the ALF kept an up-to-date listing of eligible financial
institutions. The table below shows the distribution of sub-loans by size.



1_ -
TABLE 3: DISTUIBUTION OF ALF's SUR-LOANS
Size of Sub-toan        i  ° of Totat ALF Approvals by  % of Total ALF Approvats by
Amount                   N urber
Up to P10 million                   48           T6
Over PRO mittion and up to P20s
million                             15                        7
Over P20 million                    37                        7
2.19     Most of the commercial banks engaged the services of independent appraisal
companies for collateral appraisal while the rest of the PFIs appraised the
collateral themselves. The PFIs' key officers and staff who handled ALF operations
underwent a one-month training on project or loan ap?raisal, including project or
loan supervision and monitoring before actually participating in the ALF.  This
formal training was supplemented by in-house briefings. Supervision of sub-loans
and monitoring of individual sub-loan performance was the responsibility of the
PFIs.  The ALF made periodic end-use surveys tc confirm existence of projects
financed, proper utilization of loan proceeds, compliance with conditions of the ALF
loan and satisfactory operations in accordance with projections submitted to the ALF
at application time. Between 1986 and 1989 the ALF inspected 211 projects which
represented 10% of total ALF-assisted projects.  The amount of STDs released to
these projects aggregated about P256 million, or 6% of the total STDs availed of by
ths PFIs.
2.20     The ALF's post-audit surveys showed, inter alia, that:
(a)      the majority of PFIs did not have any established definitive system of
supervision and account monitoring in their ALF lending;
(b)      insufficient records were kept to monitor systematically the status and
performance of ALF-assisted accounts;
(c)      ALF end-borrowers were not submitting periodic financial statements when
required;
(d)      ALF  projects  surveyed  were  found  to  be  leg-itimate  and  operating
successfully except for two subsidiary loans totalling P1.26 million which
were recalled because the projects were non-existent.
The ALF survey staff discussed with each PFI their findings and recommendations in
end-use  verification  surveys.    The  reports  on  findings,  deficiencies  and
recommendations were also sent to the institutions concerned.  The P?Is had to
submit reports to ALF on action taken to rectify errors or remedy deficiencies and
on any recommended measures implemented.
2.21     Loan Allocation and Disbursements.  Together with the sum of US$500,000
for consultants' services and training which was reallocated for credit operations



- 16 -
with the World Bank's approval, the procoods of the loan were disbursed in
accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.  The rate of utilization of the
US$117.4 million equivalent credit component (US$100 million from the IBRD and
US$17.4 million from USAID) was very satisfactory. Full drawdownm was completed on
October 10, 1989, well ahead of the original project completion date of December 31,
1989 and the loan closing date of December 31, 1990. The USAID component was fully
drawn by August 26, 1988 because of the elimination of the US$5,000 (or P100,000
equivalent) limitation on sub-loans to be funded. TL:us it became possible for
medium- and long-term sub-loans in addition to short-term sub-loans, to be eligible
for funding under the project. As at December 31, 1989, the undisbursed USAID fund
for training, studies and technical assistance stood at US$970,000.
2.22      The ALF succeeded in promoting term lending among the PFIs.   As of
December 31, 1989, the overall actual percentage of ALF term loans (49%) was only
5% short of the appraisal estimate (54%).  In terms of outstanding loans, however,
long-term credits (69%) exceeded the short-term (31%) by 38 percent.  ALF releases
for short-term credits were considered incremental in line with Schedule 1 of the
Loan  Agreement  in  that  CBP  regular  rediscounting  for  agriculture  remained
subztantially above the P1.0 billion benchmark agreed with the World Bank. The ALF
performance in relation to the overall financing plan was also very satisfactory.
Actual disbursements on projects amounting to P10.771 million exceeded the estimated
project cost of P4.06 million by 65% as indicated below 1:
TABLE 4: SUB-PROJECT FINANCING
Entities   ~Estifnated Financing   Percent  1ActuaL Finanig      Percent
_________ ________P    mitLion  j  _ _ _ _ _ _JP    milLion_   _ _ _ _ _ _ 
IBRD/USAID                  2,400.00     59              2,923.785      27
CBP                           274.00      7              1 220.260      11
PFIs                          732.00     18              1,194.139      11
Borrowers                     656.00     16              5,432.758      51
TOTAL                       4,062.00    100             10,770.942     100
2.23       The fast rate of ALF utilization could have been the result of one or more
of the following factors:
(a)       investors' growing confidence in the country's business envirornment;
(b)       effectiveness of the ALF information dissemination;
(c)       competitiveness of the ALF interest rate vis-a-vis the rediscounting
rates and those of similar financing programs;
7/ The comparison between the two sets of figures is somewhat misleading because the total figure
for "Actual Financing" sums the seasonal credit requirements (including owner's equity) for each year
while the "Estimated Financing" figure at appraisal included only incremental seasonal requirements
(including owner's equity), i.e. the total figure required in the final year of disbursement.



(d)       increase in the number of PFls; and
(e)       non-allocation of Loani 2570--PH to specific crops or types of investment
or borrowers.
2.24      The available data indicate that the bankers preferred to extend F'inancial
assistance to established projects with proven records of profitable operations.
95% of total sub-loans were for the expansion of existing projects and generally the
sub-borrowers had long-standing relationships with the PFIs. Only 5% of sub-loans
were for start-up projects and these were mostly for prawn production and poultry
meat production. Small- and medium-sized projects with assets that totalled P5.0
million before financing represented 92% of the total number of projects financed
and received 56% of the ALF financing. ALF loans were extended to a broad range of
agricultural investments, the main purposes of which were agro-processing and post-
harvest facilities (32% by amount), seasonal crop production (25%) and fisheries
development (15%), particularly prawn production for export. A very insignificant
amount went to farm mechanization. The ALF loans were utilized mainly for working
capital (40%), some of which was granted for medium-term; for production credit
(31%) which included also term lending; and for a combination of working capital and
acquisition of fixed assets (29%).  The average loan size under the ALF program
increased progressively from P1.08 million in 1985 to P3.063 million in 1989. Rural
banks had the smallest average loan size at PO.114 million and the commercial banks
the largest at P3.605 million per borrower. The commercial banks had the highest
availment at 72%, followed by the thrift banks at 25%. The remaining balance of 3%
was shared by the rural banks, NBQBs and the specialized government banks. Regions
outside the National Capital Region received 72% of total ALF grants by amount and
97% by number. Regions with the highest availments were Region III (Central Luzon),
Region XI (Western Visayas) and Region IV (Southern Tagalog) with 32%, 20% and 19%
of releases respectively.   Region VIII or Eastern Visayas, a depressed area,
received minimal assistance because the PFIs were reluctant to invest their
resources in the region.
2.25      Short-term loans were normally repayable in 12 months, except for sugar
and banana production which could be allowed a six-month roll-over for a total of
18 months. There was a preponderance of short-term credits, being 52% of total
releases.   Medium- and long-term loans had maturity periods up to 15 years,
including a grace period of not more than 7 years. The rural banks and some thrift
banks made use of the maximum terms allowable for the different sub-projects but the
commercial banks were more conservative in extending longer-term credits.   The
thrift banks, especially the development banks, were instrumental in influencing
greatly the term lending transformation in ALF operations. The average maturity of
ALF medium- and long-term loans was 4.5 years.
C. Project Results
2.26      Review of Sample Proiects.   A representative sample of 84 projects
representing 5% of total sub-loans released were surveyed to form the basis for
evaluating the utilization of the project loans.  The operr-ional results and



- 18 -
financial and economic performance of these sub-projects are detailed in Annexes 11-
13 of the Borrower's PCR.Y' In summary:
(i)    Cost estimates made by the PFIs proved to be realistic with 22 of the sub-
projects surveyed experiencing cost overruns of between 5% and 290%, mainly
because of understated loan budgets, changes in project size or design, and
inflation.   Overall on the surveyed sub-projects the average cost overrun
was  less than 7%.   Only one sub-project was not completed within  its
timetable.
(ii)  Average actual sales for the first two years of operation for the sub-
projects were about 39% above the appraisal estimates.   Average actual
profits over the same period were 23% more than the appraisal estimates
although these may have been understated because the projects had been
operating for only one or two years after their initial or expanded
operations.    Only  four  of  the  sub-projects  surveyed  incurred  losses.
Increases in oil prices, rising inflation, and the deteriorating business
climate due to several coup attempts made the implementation period of the
ALF program quite difficult.
(iii) About 12,080 new jobs were estimated to have been created under the ALF
program.  This relatively low number is explained by the facts that:  (a) the
majority of ALF-projects involved expansion of operations with no
corresponding expansion in labor requirements;  and  (b) most of the new
projects  financed were not labor-intensive.   Average  cost per job was
estimated at about P181,000 while the total incremental annual sales
generated by the project were estimated at P6.141 billion.  Actual export
sales represented only 2% of total sales because the majority of projects
financed were not export-oriented during a recessionary period when export
demand  was  low.    The  overall  performance  may  still  be  considered
satisfactory, particularly when viewed against the economic and socio-
political climate in which the ALF operated.
2.27  Status of Sub-loans.  The status of STDs covering ALF loan releases to PFIs
by institution as at December 31, 1989 is contained in Annex 14 of the Borrower's
PCR. The summary position is shown in the table below.
8/ There appear to be some inconsistencies in theae data and the fit :es should be viewed with some
caution. Because (i) the computer files through which the data had been analyzed had been virus-
infected and (ii) the CBP officer responsible had left ALFU and was no longer stationed in Manila,
it was not possible to re-analyze the data or to have a clear understanding as to how the figures
were arrived at.



- 19 -
TABLE 5: SUMMARY OF ALF RELEASES
ALF Releases to PFIs       Loans to End-Borrowers
Amount        % of           Amount          % of
P mittion      TotaL I        mitlion        Total
Total ReLeases                   4,144.045    100               5,338.184   100
Amount Fully Paid as at          1,831.622    44                2,352.869    44
31/12/8S _  ___  .__                                                            _
Outstanding Balance as at        2,312.423    56                2,985.315    56
31/12/89                                  I                              1
2.28        There were no arrears from PFIs to the ALF.  Arrearages of end-borrowers
to PFIs on the amortization payments amounted to P42.282 million (principal &
interest) or 1.42% of total outstanding loans (arrears for less than 3 months, 4-6
months and over 6 months were 45%, 29% & 26% respectively).  This is slightly higher
than the average past due ratio of 1.02% of the 84 sample projects surveyed. Only
about 13% of arrearages, involving 46 end-borrowers, were restructured by three
PFIs. The table below shows arrearages by type of sub-project.
TABLE 6: STATUS OF SUB-LOANS AS OF DECEMBER 31. 1989
(P million)
Total Sub-Loans      Amount          Arrears    Arrears as % of
Outstanding                     Amount Outstanding
Seasonat Crops              1,260.345          716.179          0.078         0.01
Fisheries Devetopment         801.261         447.797          31.754         7.09
Poultry & Livestock         1,150.378          626.916          5.727          0.91
Plantation Crop
Development                   421.182          238.825          1.671         0.70
Agro-Processing & Post-
Harvest Facilities          1,704.482          955.300          3.087         0.32
Farm Mechanization             0.536            0.298            .
TOTAL                       5,338.184        2.985.315         42.292         1.42
2.29        PFIs' reports to the ALF cited as the major causes for arrearages:
(a)         recessionary trends or weak market demand especially for prawn and ramie;
(b)         natural calamities which adversely affected the level of production of
the farmers;
(c)         non-operation of project financed; and
(d)         cost overruns and delays in the execution of projects financed.



- 20 -
2.30      Reporting.  Reporting.   The ALF kept the World Bank informed of major
developments in its organization and management as well as operatior-l and financial
performance by submitting the following reports: (a) Quarterly Progress Report on
Sub-loan Disbursements; (b) Quarterly Review of ALF Interest Rate; (c) Semi-Annual
Report on ALF Operations; and (d) Annual Audited Financial Statements of the ALF.
2.31      Procurement.  Suppliers of machinery and equipment were chosen on the
basis of several factors such as suitability of machinery and equipment,
availability of spare parts, efficiency of service, reliability of suppliers,
compatibility with present equipment, and price.   Most of the articles for the
projects financed were procured locally and only an insignificant portion was
imported directly under proprietary contracts such as grandparent lines for swine
and poultry breeding projects and selected machinery not normally available locally.
Procurement of civil works through competitive bidding was strongly opposed by the
PFIs and end-borrowers who claimed that the bidding is not only expensive but
procurement problems occur in the bidding process causir.g delays.
2.32      Financial Performance of ALF.  The ALF's Comparative Balance Sheets and
Comparative Statements of Income and Expenses covering the period 1985 to 1989 show
that ALF resources expanded over threefold from P709.282 million in 1985 to
P2,311.825 million in 1989, largely due to the expansion of its loan portfolio
funded out of Loan No. 2570-PH, USAID RFSP No. 492-0394 and the availability of the
CBP's counterpart funds.
2.33      During the first three years of program implementation, the ALF's net
worth actually decreased by 14% from P263.473 million in 1985 to P225.973 million
in 1987 when income earned failed to keep abreast with expenses. During this period
the loan portfolio remained relatively stable at an average of only P25?.14 million.
Authority to invest temporarily idle funds was approved by the CBP Monetary Board
only in May 1987 so that, prior to then, substantial potential earnings were
foregone. Within the remaining two years, from 1988 to 1989, the loan portfolio!/
increased markedly to an average level of P1,596.540 million. The ALF's debt-to-
equity ratio fluctuated significantly from a low of 63:37 in 1985 to a high of 83:17
in 1987 but dropped to 76:24 in 1989. Similarly, the ALF liauidity position-'/ was
erratic, moving from a high of 75:1 in 1985 to a low of 15:1 in 1989. The ALF's
liquidity position manifested an inverse relationship with its term lending
activity.
2.34      According to its audited accounts, the ALF started to show a profit in
1988 and 1989 with realized net earnings of P43.527 million and P86.176 million
respectively.   The ALF's return on assets was negative from 1985 to 1987 but
increased to 2.7% in 1988 and 3.5% in 1989. Its return on equity followed the same
pattern: negative for the first three years, then 6.8% in 1988 and 12.0% in 1989.
Financial expenses exceeded gross income from 1985 to 1987 but the significant
increase in interest income from loans in the next two years changed this scenario
9/ Loans which are classified as long-term assets only, i.e. total loans less current maturities.
10/ Ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities.



- 21 -
and expenses as a percentage of gross income amounted to 72% in 1988 and 63% in
1989.   The liquidity position of the ALF could have been entirely different if the
foreign exchange risk could have been booked as such by the ALF.   The foreign
exchange risk adjustments are carried in the ALF books in a special frozen account
named Revaluation of International Reserve, in accordance with the Central Bank
Charter.   If the ALF had been required to cover its foreign exchange losses of
P202.371 million from 1985 through 1989, the income statement would have shown a
negative bottomline.
2.35      The ALF was audited annually by the Commission on Audit and the CBP was
furnished with a copy of the audit report including comments and findings oE the
auditor.
2.36       Evaluation of Selected Participating Financial Institutions.  In the final
Chapter of the Borrower's PCR the management capability and competence of nine
selected PFIsl'l as well as their financial operations and performance under the
ALF program are reviewed.   The PFIs include four commercial banks, two of the
largest private development banks in the country, two rural banks and one savings
and loan association. Two of the commercial banks and one of the development banks
reviewed were among the main users of the ALF. Key financial data for each of the
PFIs is contained in Annex 19 of the Borrower's PCR. In each of the PFIs reviewed
there had been increasing profitability over the period of the ALF program,
expansion of loan portfolios and, particularly in the case of the smaller PFIs,
expansion of the deposit base. Most of the PFIs had improved their performance over
the period in terms of the loans past due as a percentage of total loans
outstanding, and in the case of one of the rural banks this ratio had improved from
24.6% in 1985 to 7.9% in 1989. Management was found to be satisfactory in all cases
and loan portfolios were judged to be sound or at least satisfactory.   Cash
collection on the ALF sub-loans at the end of 1989 was over 99% for six of the PFIs,
while for the other three it ranged between 87.6% and 98%.
J*/ The institutions reviewed were: International Corporate Bank; Citytrust Banking Corporation;
Far East Bank and Trust Company; Philipptne Commercial International Bank; BPI Agricultural
Development Bank; Planters Development Bark; Pagsanjan Rural Bank, Inc.; Malarayat Rural Bank,
Inc.; and Lipa Public Savings and Loan Association.



- 22 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. ReLated Bank Loans
ORIGINAL          YEAR  OF
PROJECT TITLE                                                               AMOUNT           APPROVAL
L/C NUMBER                       PURPOSE                                  (USS M)             FY        STATUS/COMMENTS
Rural Credit I            Medium- and  long-term credit to improve           5.0              1966        Completed Loan was
(Ln. 432-PH)              farm machinery and to develop small private                                     fuLly   disbursed.
irrigation systems.                                                           PCR    data    not
avaitable.
Rural Credit II           Medium-    and    long-term    loans    for    12.5                 1969        Completed Loan was
(Ln. 607-PH)              modernization   of   farm  machinery   and                                      fully   disbursed.
irrigation equipment, including fisheries                                      PCR    data    not
equipment and small boats.                                                     available.
1971       Loan   was   fulty
Rice Processing           Development and modernization of the rice    14.3                               disbursed.      PCR
(Ln. 720-PH)              and corn processing industry through long-                                      issued 10/19/82.
term credit.
Livestock                 Livestock  development   program   through         7.5              1972        Loan   was   fuLly
(Ln. 823-PH)              agricultural credit administered by DBP.                                       disbursed.       PCR
issued 09/29/77.
Fisheries    Credit       Inprove national  fish production through         11.6              1973        Loan   was   fully
(Ln. 891-PH)              improvement   of   capture   and   culture                                     disbursed.       PCR
fisheries.                                                                     issued 07/22/80
I n d u s t r i a l       Finance  direct  imports  for  mediuti  and    50.0                 1974        Loan   was   fully
Investment    and         relatively  large  industrial  projects  in                                    disbursed.       PCR
Smaltholder   Tree-       manufacturing,  agro-.ndustrial,   mining,                                      issued 03/27/84.
Farmers    Project        ocean shipping, hotel projects.  Financing
(Ln. 998-PH)              of about 1,300 participating smaliholders
in a pilot tree-farming project.
Rural  Credit  III        Continuation and expansion of Ln. 607-PH,    22.0                   1974        Loan   was   fully
(Ln. 1010-PH)              including   development   of   fisheries,                                     disbursed.       PCR
livestock, cottage and agro-industries.                                        issued 01/23/78.
Livestock II               Increase domestic production of livestock    20.5                  1976        Loan   was   fully
(Ln. 1225-PH)             products.                                                                      disbursed.       PCR
issued 02/17/83.
Grain Processing II       To assist  in modernizing  and expanding          11.5              1976        Loan   was   fully
(Ln. 1269-P;')            Philippine   grain   processing   industry                                     disbursed.       PCR
through providing Long-term credit.                                            issued 01/14/85.
Fisheries II              Same as Fisheries I above.                        12.0              1976       Loan   was   fully
(Ln. 1270-PH)                                                                                            disbursed.       PCR
issued 10/12/85.
Rural Credit IV           Mediun-  and  long-term  credit  through    36.5                    1977        USS3,500    was
(Ln. 1399-PH)             participating banks to finance farmers and                                     cancelled.       PCR
local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization.                                    issued 12/19/85.
livestock, fisheries, adn cottage and agro-
industries.
Smaliholder    Tree       Continuation of Ln. 998-PH with additional         8.0              1978        US$3.8    M    was
Farming                   coffponents  in  large-scale  plantation,                                      cancelled.       PCR
(Ln.1506-PH)              forestry research and planning,                                                 issued 04/28/87.
Small      Farmer          To increase agricultural productivity and    16.5                  1979        US$0.78    N    was
Development                expand rural employment opportunities among                                    cancelled.  PCR is
(Ln. 1646-PH)             small-scaln farmers                                                             being prepared.
Third Livestock/          Same  as  in  Loans  891-PH,  1270-PH  and    45.0                  1981       ULS21.48   N   was
Fisheries                  increase in meat production.                                                   cancelled.      PCR
(Ln. 1894-PH)                                                                                             issued 08/26/88.



- 23 -
2.   Project Timetable
ITEM                    DATE PLANNED                 DATE ACTUAL
02/8 1/
Identification
Preparation                                                 1983
Preappraisal                                               05/84
Project Brief (Final)                                      06/27/84
Appraisal                                                  10/84
Loan Negotiations                                          04/24/85
Board Approval               05/28/85                      06/06/85
Loan Signature                                             06/10/85
Loan Effectiveness           09/09/85                      08/16/85
Loan Closing                 12/31/90                      10/31/89  2/
Project Completion           12/31/89                      10/31/89  2/
.2X/ The Bank's Agricultural Credit Sector Review in 1982 effectively identified
the need for this project and a Project Brief on the "DBP Consolidated Line
of Credit" was issued on 02/02/82.
2/   Loan was fully disbursed with the last disbursement made on 10/10/89.



- 24 -
3.   LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
A. LOAN ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
ORIGINAL LOAN        REVISED LOAN           TOTAL
ALLOCATION            ALLOCATION *       DISBURSEMENT
CATEGORY            (US$)                    (US$)           ACTUAL (US$)
(1-A)       Sub-loans    45,500,000                               30,000,000.00
under Part
A (1) of
the Project
(1-B)       Sub-loans                                             26,000,000.00
under Part
A (1) of
the Project
(2)  Sub-loans under      44,000,000                              44,007,136.13
Part A (2) of the
Project
(3)  Consultants'            500,000                                   **
services and
training
(4)  Unallocated          10,000,000
FUND Special Account
for all
Categories                                                    *** -7.136,13
100,000,000                              100,000,000.00
Note:       Figures are based on the Bank's official disbursement data.
*    No formal reallocation of loan proceeds was made.
**   No disbursements were made against Category (3).
*** Amount represents the exchange rate fluctuations from transactions made
under the S/A.



- 25 -
B. ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(Cumulative in US$ Million)
FY86     FY87      FY88       FY89      FY90     FY90      FY90
10/31    12/31    06/30
Appraisal Estimate       46.00    66.00      80.00      96.00        -    100.00      ----
Revised Estimate *----    50.00              73.00      88.00    -----    96.00   100.00
Actual                   22.92    31.43      50.62      90.29   100.00     -----
Actual as %% of          50        63        69        103       -----     -----      ----
APR/Revised Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: October 10, 1989
* Revised in June, 1986.
C. ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY AND FISCAL YEAR
(Cumulative in US$ Million)
APR
CATEGORY              TOTAL    FY86        FY87      FY88      FY89     FY90
(1-A) Sub-loans under
Part A (1) of        45.50    12.95      14.29     30.00    30.00    30.00
the Project
(1-B) Sub-loans under
Part A (1) of                  0.00       0.00      3.47    23.21    26.00
the Project
(2)   Sub-loans under
Part A (2) of        44.00     0.00       7.17      7.18    32.09    44.00
the Project
(3)   Consultants' services
and training *        0.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
(4)   Unallocated        10.00
Special Account for
all categories                      9.97      9.97       9.97     4 99        **
TOTAL:                  100.00    22.92      31,43      50.62    90.29   100.00
*  No disbursements were made against Category (3).
** -7,136.13 recorded against Special Account in FY90, which amount represents the exchange
rate fluctuations from transactions made under this Account.



- 26 -
D. Disbursements by Purpose
IBRD                               Disbursements
fiscal
year &       Seasonal        Medium- & long-        Cumulative     Actual as
semester     production         term credit &          Amount          % of
credit            technical               %          Estimated
assistancell
US$ million        US$ million
Est.   ActualY    Est.    ActualV    Est.   ActualV
1986
1st   8.0       -        3.0         -        11        -          OX
2nd  30.0     12.6       5.0         -        46      12.6        27%
1987
1st   5.0       -        6.0         -        57      12.6        22%
2nd   2.5     19.1       6.5        7.0       66      38.8        59%
1988
lst    -       2.3       7.0        5.3       73      46.4        64%
2nd    -        -         7.0        -        80      46.4        58%
1989
1st    -      19.4       8.0       19.2       88      85.1        97%
2nd    -       2.8       8.0       12.1       96     100.0       104%
1990
1st    -        -        4.0         -       100      100.0      100%
2nd
/ No disbursements were made under the project against technical assistance.
2  Based on data from ALFU i.e. drawings by ALF from CBP special account, not disbursements
by World Bank to CBP.



- 27 -
4. Prolect Implementation
Indicators                 Appraisal                 PCR Estimate
Estimate                 to End 1989
During Drawdown Period
1.  Outstanding Loans to   P2.59 billion              P2.32 billion
PFIs at end of              Equiv US$103.6 million   Equiv US$103.3 million
Disbursement Period (end
1989)
2.  Cumulative Provision   P103.6 million             P0.0 million
for Bad Debts at end of
Disbursement Period (end
1989)
3.  Z ALF 1 held as cash   13%                        16%
or other liquid             (US$14.8 million)          (US$20.4 million)
investments at end of
Disbursement Period (end
1989)
4.  Total ALF               P19.1 million             P15.0 million
administrative costs
until end of
disbursement period (end
1989)
5. Number of sub-loans
made
- Total                     Not estimated             2,013
- Short-term                Not estimated             1,114
- Medium-/Long-term         Not estimated               899
6.  Number of Policy        5                         4
Studies Completed
I/ Excluding Foreign Exchange adjustment account.



- 28 -
5. Prolect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ Million)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                 ACTUAL
Local    Foreign   Total   Local    Foreign   Total
Costs   Exchange   Costs   Costs   Exchange   Costs
Costs                       Costs -
Seasonal Credit.         50.0        33.4    83.4    60.8          26.0    86.8
Medium/Long Term          69.2       29.9    99.1   146.2          62.6   208.8
Credit 3/
Studies and                0.3        0.2      0.5      1.7         1.4     3.1
Training 4/
TOTAL 5                  119.5       63.5   183.0   208.7          90.0   298.7
I/ Estimated investment for which seasonal credit was extended in the peak year i.e. 1989.
21 Estimated at 30% on costs funded both by seasonal credit and medium- and long-term credit.
ii Estimated medium- and long-term investments for which loans were given 1986-1989
inclusive. It should be noted that part of the investment was not always new investment
but sometimes redefinition of existing assets belonging to sub-borrowers which were
included within project costs.
i/ US$2.6 million of USAID funds plus the counterpart contribution of US$0.4 million were
handled under the parallel Rural Financial Studies Project and did not pass through the
ALF account but have been counted as part of project cost.
5. Total cost estimate includes total investments against which loans were made and
incorporates the sub-borrowers contribution estimated at 42% of investment as determined
by the CBP survey. Given the tendency of investors to over report their own contribution,
this probably over-estimates total investment. If a more conservative estimate of owners
contribution of 20% of sub-project cost is used, tocal project costs would be
US$217.4 million.
Increase in Total Costs compared with the figure at appraisal has been caused by (i) there
being adequate demand for ALF funds; (ii) the boosting of the size of the ALF pool by
US$17.4 million from USAID which had not been taken into account at appraisal; and (iii)
greater proportional contributions to investments made by individual sub-borrowers and to a
lesser extent by PFIs.



- 29 -
B. Prolject Financing
Appraisal       PCR Estimate 1/   PCR Estimate 2
Estimate                           (Alternative)
US$m.      %      US$n.       X       US$m.      X
Investments Supported
by Credit
IBRD                      99.5      54      100.0       33      100.0      46
USAID                       -        -        17.4       6       17.4        8
CBP                       13.7        7       13.7       5       13.7        6
Net Recycled Long-term    -           -        0.6      -         0.6       -
Funds
Participating             36.5      20        39.7      13       39.7       19
Financial Institutions
Sub-borrowers             32,8      18       124.2      42       42.9       20
Sub Total                182.5     100       295.6      99      214.3       99
Studies & Training
IBRD                       0.5       -         -        -         -         -
USAID                       -        -         2.6        1       2.6        1
CBP/GOP                                        0.5      -         0.5       -
Sub Total                  0.5                 3,I       1        3.1        1
TOTAL                    183.0      100      298.7     100      217.4      100
i/ Based on CBP study showing 42% owner contribution.
/ Conservative estimate showing 20% owner contribution.



- 30 -
6. Project Results
A. Diret Benefits
Indicators                  Appraisal       Estimate at      Estimated at Full
Estimate      Closi-ig Date        Development
Number of loans                n.a.               732               n.a.
made/year                                    (in  1989)
Number of loans made         10,000+1/         2.013                n.a.
(Cumulative)
Total Volume of Loans          n.a.       US$252 million            n.a.
by PFIs extended by
closing date
Participating Financial   n.a. but 175   89 accredited    c.300 assuming RB
Institutions supported      qualified      institutions    rehabilitation goes
institutions  at 31/12/89 of           ahead.
identified    which 42 had
actually made
loans
LJ Appraisal estimate was for the number of sub-projects plus the hectarage of cropland plus
the amount of seasonal credit by value as follows: livestock (2,090 projects), fisheries
(410 projects), agro-industry (700 projects), farm mechanization (5,370 pieces of
equipment), plantation crops (46,570 ha), seasonal credit (P1.7 billion).



- 31 -
B, Economic Impact
Appraisal                        Estimated
Estimate                          Actual
Economic      No estimate made.               Detailed ex-post estimates have
Rate of       Indicative models showed        not been made. ,/ However, due
Return        Benefit:Cost ratios for         to changes in relative prices
short-term crops being         between inputs and agricultural
supported by credit of         outputs between 1984 and 1989
1.8:1 for rice and 8:1 for    the ercimated Benefit:  Cost 1
corn.  Economic rates of       ratios on rico and corn would
return between 37% and 84%    have been. as follows:
were estimated for typical
longer-term sub-projects.              1985  1989  Long Term
Rice     2.2   4.8      2.6
Corn     5.3   5.8      3.9
i.e. production of these crops,
which only received limited
funding under the project, was
generally profitable. Ex-post
estimates of the economic rate
of return on longer-term proiect
investments are in the range 15-
30%
I,.!                Most of the sub-projects financed under ALF had just
started at the time this PCR was being written,
calculation of a meaningful ex-post rate of return was not
feasible.
2/                   Using the same technical parameters as at appraisal.
However, import parity rather than export parity was used
in estimating the economic price of rice.



- 32 -
C.  Financial Impact
Appraisal                        Actual
Estimate                        Estimate
Financial Rate      No single estimate for the    Estimated Benefit:Cost
of Return           project was made.  However,   ratios on rice and corn
Benefit:Cost ratios for         are:
rice, corn and sugar cane
were estimated at 2.3 1,               1985  1989  Long Term
6.5:1, and 1.1:1 while          Rice   2.9   3.5       3.5
financial rates of return       Corn   4.8   5.2       3.7
on medium- and longer-term
projects were estimated at    For sugar, which was the
between 25-46%.                 main crop borrowed for,
results would have been
better than the appraisal
estimates as domestic
prices at the farmgate
level increased
substantially faster than
import costs i.e. the 1989
index for sugar (using the
appraisal year, 1985 as a
base) was 183, compared
with a general price index
of 126, a farm labour index
of about 150 and a
fertilizer index of 79.
The estimated financial
rate of return for longer-
term investments was
typically 15-30% net of
inflation.



- 33 -
D.   Studies                                          (Sheet I of 2)
Title cf Study            Purpose as Defined at        Status                      Impact of Study and Comment
Appraisal
Rediscounting Policy      This study was               The study which was         The main recommendations of
and Arrearages             intended to review          carried out by CB3P         the study which were adopted
CBP's rediscounting         unrder the direction        were (i) the proposal to
policy and problems         of two deput,!              merge individual loan funds
associated with             governors was               and create a Conprehensive
arrearages                  completed and               Agricultural Loan Fund (CALF)
particularly to rurat       submitted by ALFPAG         which indirectly provides
banks and to make           to the Monetary Board       credit guarantees and
policy                      for approval on 5            insurance through existing
recommendations for         August 1987.                guarantee organizations, and
alleviating these                                       (ii) the proposal to
problems and                                             introduce a rehabilitation
enhancing the                                           program for Rural Banks which
availability of rural                                    is still ongoing.
credit.
Strategies for            The general objective        Contracted for by a         This wide ranging study made
Expansion of Banking      of the study was to          consortium of               a nuiber of broad
Services in the           develop appropriate          consultants made up         recoammendations on the
Rural Areas               and responsive               of C. Virata &              improvemeit  ' farm
strategies in the           Associates, SGV & Co.       viability,  tengthening of
monetary, regulatory        and Estanislav, Lavin        the rural 'inancial system
and bank branching          & Associates.  The          and development of macro-
policies to expand          final report was            economic policies for rural
and strengthen              subnitted to CBP on         development.  Most of the
banking services in         13 November 1987.           recommendations made by the
the rural areas.                                        study fell outside the direct
control of CBP and have not
been specifically adopted.
Government                To assess mechanisms                                     Carried out by NEDA and a
Assistance to Low         for government                                           final report was submitted to
Income Groups             assistance to low                                        CBP on 16 September 1987.This
income groups that                                      was a wide ranging study with
lack access to                                          a number of broad policy
institutional credit.                                   recommendations.  One major
recommendation to come out of
the study which has been
adopted by GOP was for
abolition of all export taxes
on agricultural products.
The study also made proposals
on the consolidation of
agricultural credit programs,
increased crop insurance
coverage, speeding up the
land reform program,
expansion of price support,
development of cooperatives
and increased participation
of small upland farmers in
social forestry.
Studies on Crop           To identify ways and         The study which was         The major recommendation of
Insurance                 means of reducing            undertaken by an            the study which has been
lender and borrower         inter-agency task           adopted was the proposed
risks in agricultural       force was submitted         expansion of the guarantee
production.                 by PCIC to CBP on 6         coverage to include ALF
April 1987.                 seasonal production credits
and also to provide insurance
protection to livestock
raisers. The study also made
a number of proposals on PCIC
rate structure and management
which are to be inmlemented
under the proposed ARF
project.



- 34 -
D.  Studies                                              (Sheet 2 of 2)
Purpose as Defined at
Title of Study            Appraisat                    Status                      Impact of Study and Corrent
Preparation of            To update CBP's term         The term tending            Nit - study not done.
Technical Guidelines      lending policy               manual which was
for Project Lending       manual.                      originally meant to
be updated by the
USAID General
Contraccor as part of
his work under his
contract with USAID
for RFSP was not
completed due to a
change in priorities.
Preparation of a          Preparation of a             Not undertaken during       The reason for non-
Future Agricultural       future agricultural          the project period.         preparation was that the
Credit Project            credit project to                                        responsibility for ALF was
continue progress                                       shifted from COP to LBP.
made under ALF.                                          Thus CBP/ALFU staff no Longer
had the mandate for future
borrowing in this area. Work
on this was subsequently
undertaken by L8P in 1990.



- 35 -
7. Status of Covenants
Section                     Covenant                                status of Compliance - Comment
LA 2.02(b)        The Borrower shall for the purposes of            In full compliance.  Account opened October
the project open and maintain in dottars          1985.
a special account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
LA 3.01(a)        The Borrower shall carry out the project          In fu l comptiance.
in conformity with appropriate practices.
LA 3.02           Procurement of goods, works, consultants          Difficult to ascertain with certainty
services required for the project shalt           whether fully compLied with particularly
be according to Schedule 4.                       with investments by sub-borrowers but
appears acceptaote overall.
LA 4.01          Maintenance of accounts and furnishing             Complied with although agreed accounting
them to the Bank.                                 system was not set up until March 1987 which
delayed the first audit.
LA Sch 5         The Borrower shall finance sub-loans in            GeneraLly coffplied with although some
A(1) a-c          appropriate categories and exercise its           investments funded under the project do not
rights over PFIs so that they fottow the          appear to have been analyzed fully along the
policy manual, conduct their affairs in           lines of the policy manual.
accordance with sound business practices
and maintain adequate records.
LA Sch 5         Eligibility of participating financial             Complied with - PFIs participating were
A(2) a-c          institutions and supervision of lists             eligible and updated Lists were submitted to
semi-annually.                                    the Bank semi-annually as required.
LA Sch 5         Selection of beneficiaries, terms of loan          In full compliance until the Loan was fully
A(3) a-c         and reference to WB of loans above                 disbursed, thereafter sub-loans have not
P20 million.                                      been submitted to the World Bank.
LA Sch 5          Interest rates on subsidiary loans shatl          This covenant was complied with to the
A(3) d            be market oriented and determined on the          extent that agreement was reached with the
basis of a reference rate to be agreed            Bank.  However, the general level of
from time to time between the Borrower            interest rates were below market rates but
and the Bank.                                     were positive in real terms.
LA Sch 5         The Borrower shall review interest rates           In compliance - interest rates were reviewed
A(3) e            and make adjustments satisfactory to the          initially six monthly then quarterly.
Bank.
LA Sch 5         Repayments of subsidiary loan principal            Complied with until ALF was handed over to
AM3) f            shall be deposited in ALF to provide              LBP (after Project Completion) at which time
agricultural credit in accordance with            CBP placed its own ALF funds in government
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.            securities rather than passing them on to
LBP for relending to farmers.
LA Sch 5          Borrower shall retain in ALF aLl profits.         In compliance until ALF was handed over to
A(3) g                                                              LBP - see above.
LA Sch 5         Elimination of subsidies by December               CBP eliminated direct interest rate
A(4) a - b        1986.                                             subsidies in compLiance with this covenant.
LA Sch 5          The Borrower shall issue by 31 December           Not complied with - there was minimal demand
B(1) a            1985 guidelines for appraisal of farm             for farm mechanization loans under the
mechanization investments.                        project.
LA Sch 5          Coordination with relevant Ministries and         Complied with.
B(1) b           Agencies on Farm Mechanization.



- 36 -
Section                      Covenant                               Status of Compliance - Cofmment
LA Sch 5          The Borrower shall maintain ALFPAG with           Complied with.
B(2) a            composition, power, resources and staff
satisfactory to the Bank.
LA Sch 5          The Borrower shall appoint full time              Complied with - the secretariat for ALFPAG
B(2) b            staff to ALFPAG.                                  was the full time staff of ALFU.
LA Sch 5          The Borrower shall appoint and have in            Complied with.  However, when the handover
B(3)              place futl time ALFU staff in numbers and         from CBP to LBP became irminent the staffing
witn qvalifications, experience and               of ALFU fell below optimum level.
responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank.
LA Sch 5          ihe Borrower shatl by 30 September 1985           Complied with.
B(4)              reconstitute AMDAC.
LA Sch 5         Technical assistance to be extended to             Generally complied with but not clear
B(5) a            PFIs and plans for 5 PFIs to be submitted         whether deadline was met.
to WB by 31 December 1985.
LA Sch 5          The Borrower shall make the technical             Complied with.
B(5) b            assistance staff available upon request
to PFIs.
LA Sch 5         Studies under part 8 of the project                Complied with in the case of four out of the
C(1) a            should be carried out in accordance with          five studies although the time schedules of
terms of reference and time schedules             all studies had to be extended compared with
satisfactory to the Bank.                         intentions at negotiations.
LA Sch 5         Studies to be sent to the Bank for review          Complied with - all completed studies were
C(1) b           and recommendation.                                sent to the Bank.
LA Sch 5         Based on recommendations Borrower shall            Not clear whether mutually agreed plans were
C(1) c            implement plans of action mutually agreed         ever established.
on by the Borrower and the Bank.
LA Sch 5         The Borrower shall prepare programs                Conplied with - in that agreement was
(2) a            satisfactory to the Bank for the                   reached with Bank, but financial and
monitoring and evaluation of activities           economic monitoring of the impact of sub-
under the project.                                projects was less than satisfactory.
LA Sch 5         The Borrower shalt by 31 December 1985             Complied with in 1985 - subsequent programs
(2) b            and each 31 December thereafter furnish            need checking.
to the Bank the program for the foltowing
12 month period's training.
LA Sch 5         Training.  The Borrower shall by 30                Not known if this was fully complied with.
C(3)              September 1985 and thereafter by 31 March
of each year furnish to the Bank a
program for staff training.
GA 2.01           The Guarantor declares his conmitment to          Complied with.
the objectives of the project.
GA 2.02          The Guarantor undertakes to make                   Complied with.
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause
the Borrower to be provided with such
funds as are needed to meet necessary
expenditures.



37  -
Section                        Covenant                           Status of Conpliance - Comment
GA 2.03          The Guarantor shall make technicat and           Degree of couiptiance not known.
extension staff avaitable upon request to
PFIs.
GA 2.04 a        The Guarantor shalt complete elimination         Not conmplied with unLess the Bank has agreed
of subsidies on agricultural credit in          to exceptions for IRF, PCA, ARF etc.
accordance with a program and timetable
satisfactory to the Bank.
GA 2.04 b        The Guarantor shaLl not introduce new            Not complied with - see above.
agricultural credit subsidies involving
interest or capital subsidies.



- 38 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS (STAFFWEEKS)
STAGE OF                            TOTAL
PROJECT CYCLE          PLANNED *       A-TUAL
Through Appraisal                       62.7
Appraisal through                       66.3
Board Approval
Supervision                             39.9
Completion                              15.0
TOTAL STAFF INPUTS:                    183.9
TOTAL            FY83  FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91
Ident./Preparation   62.7               0.6   50.2 11.9
Appraisal             64.5                          64.5
Negotiations/Board    1.8                            1.8
Supervision           39.9                           0.6 10.4 14.7 10.1  2.5  1.6
Completion            1l.0                                                            15.0
TOTAL:         183.9              0.6  50.2 78.8 10.4 14.7 10.1  2.5 1.6  15.0
* Planned data not available.



- 39 -
B.  MISSIONS
NUMBER       DAYS               PERFORMANCE
STAGE OF         T-O-R                OF           IN                  RATING      TYPE OF
PROJECT CYCLE       DATE      MO/YR   PERSONS       FIELD   SPECIALTY   STATUS       PROBLEMS
Through Appraisal
1) Ident./
Preparation               02/83       3          21      A/B
2) Ident./
Preparation    05/16/83  06/83        1            7     A
3) Preparation    08/24/83  09/83        1           10     A
4) Preparation    01/06/84  01/84        3           25     A/B/C
5) Preappraisal   04/23/84  05/84        6         115      A/B/C/D/E
Appraisal          09/24/84  10/84       4          100     A/B/C/D
Supervision 1      06/12/85  06/85       1           15     B                1         n.a.
Supervision 2      10/23/85  10/85       1           10     B                1         n.a.
Supervision 3      06/13/86  06/86       1            7     B                1         n.a.
Supervision 4      02/02/87  02/87       1           12     B                2         n.a.
Supervision 5      01/13/88  01/88       1            8     B                1         n.a.
Completion         01/10/91  03/91       1           40     F            n.a.
SPECIALTY:  A:  Agricultural Economist
B: Financial Analyst
C: Agricultural Credit Specialist
D: Financial Management Specialist
E: Rural Development Specialist
F: Management Specialist
G: Forestry Specialist



- 40 -
Appendix 1
Revalued ALF 1" Balance Sheet as at February 28. 1991
Exchange Rates:
US$ : Peso Exchange Rate              28.125  2
Borrowed "$" : US$ Exchange Rate    1.1815  3J
Borrowed "$" : Peso Exchange Rate   33.23
Million Pesos            USS Million
Assets
ALF Loan Rediscounting by CBP          2,041.6                     72.6
Due from LBP                             347.6                     12.3
Accrued Interest Recoverable             123.4                      4.4
Investment in Government Securities    210.1                        7.5
Due from CBP                               7.4                      0.3
Due from Foreign Banks                    74.5                      2.6
Total Tangible Assets41 2t804,6                                    99.7
Liabilities
WB Loan 96.66 million Borrowed "$"   3,212.0                      114.2
Accrued WB Interest                       29.8                      1.0
Taxes Due                                  8.7                      0.3
Advance from CBP                           4.9                      0.2
Total Liabilities                      3,255.4                    115.7
Net Worth                               -450.8                    -16.0
Represented by:
CBP Counterpart Finance                266.4                      9.5
USAID Donation                         364.9                     13.0
Cumulative Losses to date           -1,082.1                    -38.5
-450.8                    -16.0
1/    Position from CBP standpoint including investments in Government
Securities and Foreign Banks not managed by LBP.
.2.1   CBP rate for February 28, 1991 used in their ALF balance sheet for that
date.
2./   The Borrowed "$" is the equivalent currency borrowed by CBP from the
World Bank under this Loarn. The exchange rate between the borrowed "$"
and the US$ is that used by the World Bank for capital repaid on January
15, 1991.
4/    Excludes "Valuation Reserve" which CBP presents as an asset in its own
balance sheets for ALF.



- 41 -
Appendix 2
CURRENCY DEVALUATION. INFLATION AND INTEREST RATES UNDER ALF
||   1986       1987  J   1988     1989        1990     5-Year
_ .   I   I        I         I          I ~~~~~~~~~Av'erage 1
Peso vs USS Exchaige Rate
Start Year                      19.03      20.53      20.80    21.34      22.45
End Year                        20.53      20.80      21.34    22.45      28.00
A. Devaluation Rate of Pesos vs USS                     7.9%       1.3%      2.6%     5.2%       24.7%       8.0%
US Dollar vs SOR
Start Year                       1.12        1.25      1.40     1.33        1.30
End Year                         1.25        1.40      1.33     1.30        1.43
S. International Devaluation Rate                      11.6%      12.0%     -5.0%    -2.3%       10.0%       5.0%
C. Total Devaluation Effect (A*B)                     20.4X       13.51   -2.5X       2.81      37.21       13.4X
Philippine Inflation
Between Year                                     0.8%       3.8%      8.8%    10.6%       14.2%  |
D.    Within Year (Calculated)                         2.3%        6.3%      9.7%    12.4%       14.2%       8.9%
E. Average Cost of Borrowed  SfA' to CBP 1/            8.4%        7.8%      7.7%     7.7%        7.4%       7.8%
F. Passed on Rate by CBP                              12.6%       10.4%     10.2%    11.4%       13.1%      11.5%
G. Estimated End. User Cost                            17.9%      16.6%     16.5%    17.0%       19.0%      17.4%
H. Estimated CBP Margin (F-E-C)                   |  -16.12     -11.0X       5.11     0.9X      -31.5X      -9.7X
1. Time Deposit Rate                 |                14.4%       10.0%     13.5%  ! 16.3%       21.1%      15.1%
J. Benefit to PFI (I-F) 2/                              1.81  J  -0.42  J  3.3X  J  4.9Z          8.0X      3.52
K. Lending Rate (Secured Loans)            |           17.9%      15.5%     16.2%    19.8%      24.4X       18.7%
L. Benefit to Sub-borrowers (K-G) 3/                   0.0_J   -1.1X    -0.3X        2.8X  |   5.4X  |   S.3X
M. Real Interest Rate at CBP Lending Level (F-D) j  10.1%          3.81 1   0.4X    -0.9I        -1.0X  j   2.41
N. Real Interest Rate at PFI Lending Level (G-D)    15.3X J   9.6X  J  6.21  J  4.1X             4.21  j   7.81
1/  The Borrowed "S" is the equivalent currency borrowed by CBP from the World Bank under this Loan.  The exchange
rate between the borrowed "S" and the USS is that used by the World Bank for capital repaid on 15 January 1991.
2/  Underestimates total benefit compared with time deposits because (i) there is no reserve requirement for ALF,
but there is for time deposits; and (ii) less mobilisation costs are incurred. Together, these two items would
have averaged about 3%.
3/  True benefit is probably higher as agricultural investments are often rated as riskier than average, and so ALF
borrowers would not on average have been able to access funds at the reported lending rate for secured loans.



tritfiftwel telp fops 1AM priqlas
holm    ENVIVIin  Repoli - tua 10, 2370-pn                        --------- -
Stitt I Ott to" Ovol I sthi I - -
el Imebot 31, I"I
... . .. . I. . .
CT - lm                                    CT    1916                                tv - lop?                                      fit                                CT - itil
qm.    t      sip       S-ikletp       I  No.    I        $10       klicas       I  II,.   I       off       3012"        I  h.   t         Ile       5bl         I   No.   I       SID       siibleop     I h. I             tte       tatioth       I
. . ..... . ...... .. .   . .... . ....  ..........                                                                                                                              ......            ......
of holitt
flit# allits fill                 0     DI           6           0     et   i       41     1.413        4.570    it   14   III   12.113;         SUS   141   14   lllt  176.192   132.1"    221  91   121   SIP 141   793. qlrl  712  ?OR  iti  041.132  1011.103  III
testioll fo lm# - - - -
vwtlol topitil IVEI             a     et          0            0     el   H     2111   91.111                 let   to   121      I11.1111    72.011  III  a          W  11.70        N-I"       5t  94  132    175AP    235.731   el   ne   ltt  3".031,                           It
fortilif Ciplist                  1-   ft       4.111       6.660      01  St   III    fo. III        91.119  201   lo   311   Ifil.911-  211.331. 441 ID$   Sst  .2imll  -141.!I!  III 410   47,  115i.54  1529.116  sli  615  Sit 1652.112  2192.14   411
Fradtrlln   U041,               34A   1001   3?1.974   W1.539  lftt  12   431  119.111    21S.111  512   it   20t  IP2.11T    121.6"                         211 704   sit  Smile   473.41-.  sot 239  S.-!  302.445   312.2q-  III  104  451 12TIA16  t5STACE  2it
347   of-Of   3WHO    401.410    lfti ILI   toot  3.11.500    431.091 toot 211 lot   313.031    410.311 1001 SIT ItOl   In-040  IOMSYS ION   132 IODL 2242.10t  2740.72t lOt' 201,1 1001 1111UNS  331KIlt 1001
I It. I solve 41                346   141   373-914   400-351   10111   tl   411   "I.713   312.014   six  33   lit   137.189    M-1413   .6% 156   In   MASI   107.5is  6st W                                  521   139."2               371 1114  5st 21111371  2731.OES  sit
1.1  - -5 to 6. -              - 1-- -41 - 4.114                       el - 04  .50t -- Met 1- -13. 1195 - 161 164-75t - 211. 1                               III -ssl .216.33i   312.4sl  !St Sc I101 140t.422_18(5.111  631  812  Itl . IM.41  ZStf.2j   4171
car 5 vtg.                        0     et      0. O"       0-000      et    I      11     0.160        t. 20    02    1   ct       1.144        1.430   et    t ot    4.469             0. so     DI    4     It     1.412        t.413   #I       I    at      Cest        1.2sl   DI
141   l(fel   174.711    401.419  lool fil   loot  $Smoo    431ml imt 719 too.   315.031    4811.361 lot sit toot   111.04  451.511S 1001 132 lmi 174?.706  nqo. 121 lni 2013 tool MIMS  SM.11111 lfft
age                                                   152.                                                                                                                       1.412111 .                               4.017 -                                   2.1,37
............
106"ftlll                                                                                                            -10-421 441.919-311.101  UiM    -121 - 445.727-- 41S.W1  $81 297 - ill 1970.1,11-  N43.1193  ill  gig  all MD. ni .3836.17,  7.1
lkrllt Post,                            11      2.114       2.110      It   42   IS!    10.340        99.10.1  Ill lie   sot   lit'lil    Issmi   in  216  39i   m.3ii   401-441  381 791   411   !12.9PS   415.159  211   W                            Vt 1011-M        131134   751
forst lost -                                    IA65-       1.1gs --ot -.Ss  - lit                  -kml                                                       to    itt                70.185  - II its    lit    24.111         71.611   it   tot  7ti - wsct             41.111   It -
iseliallest oev't, lost           I     et      PA10        0. D"      et   0       co     I.W          0. W.   et   I   et         4.01011,     0.000   et   I et           e.061       0.000   et   St    it    11.215          11. S"     n     31    71   11.215        w.511   71
0    -01     0. 000       O."o --  ot --1 - -.01 - - O.Hp            0. too - et -.6 - U-   0. coo-                          I I.-2t-                                      -O' -   C. Mt    .. D."t   01 . 11 . It                    -21.2H    IDI
-40t.410   .1001-Ifit-1001                                                                      loot                                                       ,212.70i _2900.174.1"I 2011 itti 414t.ols mscm   toot-
................
ftfill I        .                14             9.2`11 -    AMR         01   0      01 - - I-M          I, fM        - Ot - 4 -  It  i. 3X         -  1.104  At  10 - It    .1.760      10-Itl  .11  21    31    27.231           nAll   it    ?I    It   41.3?1            54 Or"t   It
levie, 11                        It     4t      0.100       0. tfte    et   2       It     3.160        SIM       it   I   it       9. in       11.400    St   I      1-    14.1115     1 B. W     it  14   21   $8.550           ". on      31    43    21   96-215    125.100   71
qrqiaq off -                         --181- - I.S61, -   - 1.6-1 -- - 01  47   IPt  778-115   100. 414 - 46t 40 .321 .731.051- -M.114-411 -"   -I?t- 124.331   !14.712  141 is?  Itt  $17.211   In5jr;  lit  418  ;2I j3o?.2Aj  J-,3j.n4q  321
Polito                           51   191       6.994       1AU         71   I      If     4.Sts        5.207    It  22   lot   211,1161,    SIMI    it I 20  271  130.561   115.113  171 10    231  631-911   021.459  Ill  311  lft  6112.1157                                03?  701
it   S      it     1.7111.  ...SI$    it - I-,                          1.41 - it - 4 - it -   SA7              U ll    It    4       It     6 240       10.811   01    11    .1   19.351          15.521   01 -
hviali                           12   211  176.61!   141.359    1.11  (A    lot   ". 176   48351  24!  St   771   34.141                        61.231  Ill 7.11  431  vs.987   P1.413  331 2is  351  7AR.Pw                     34?.IGP  121  so!  tit  OP1.1"   101.341  Ill
41 -  12.412 -  11,412         11   4.  71 .  J.?ps   -.10"  I   ;I -14 -.71               1.141-. - 10,305   21- 11-  It   19.761-                                                     '?'J. W
U                                                                           - 73-291 - .71 - 31   It  674.441                     It  -IS-41  72'41114   217-737   It
flif                            01     0.00         0.1011    el   0       ol      0. IV       a. W,   ot   0    ti         0. O"                 et   0     et     0. O"        0.00      et    3 ol         0.790      11.100   ol             ttl    8.710      1;. !-m    et
It-                - 4141- 4.194 -   4.UI -It -0                          et    0. W.         0,0cl   el   2-  it         0.111        1.110   et - I       It.5.101            6.171    it    I at    23.270           19.1110   11    in    It   31.111         42 tss   It
!I     1.112       1.147       it   I      it     J.1112       S-S?v    It    t   21       3.694        1.131    it  .4    S!    11.111    23.297   22  21   3!    11.164                MM         11   sv    ?I   54.013         6S.295   It
132,49   311 . la    1;1   11.4,11          MR117.  it. 11 -14!   .10.246   -13.141-11 .10    it   ft 0I  -111.120 mt  If-  St  im    la                              241.97S   Pt -135    71  424.1,11 Amm                 ILI-
et     0. "O       O-ve       el   0       Of     O-OM         O.m       fit   t    01     0. Oft       I."o   et   9        it     $.?Ss        I.f!'?    It   0     el      6.,-.Qt     OA11O   n        $ 01         .111        I.W7   01
.1 S. -  lot - II. m      37 - ;55 - 221    4      2t   .3.114.-    4.60         11 . 4.  21.                  IS. loo - 11   . 3    it   ..3.410        4.125 -01  21   St   210.110    U1.145  tol . ts   1.1  111.714    311t.1125    71
ill. 1,01 -371.,n  ..111.411  loot 161. In'                          01.431, Ice! 1118 1131                    RAW    jftct St, lool  Imme                       loaf Im   im, 72n.'al.  iloo. 124. I"I n I 7IDGI Im.043 '5339.181 lot?
. ...... .......... I.... . ....... ................... ..................



113RD 22431
I I('                                               1201                                                 124                                                  126
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY (;FOGRAPHICAL  RE(,Ii "IS
PHILIPPINES
I  1(11 1)5                  viblIES viossis
il            lon, loIn' Nt,               AkIAn
klo'n Sn'                    CaP.;
Ia UJn.oe                     Aniiq'                                    iRA IAN  l.S
P41Bs--an                    sI I.ilAI    u
CORDIHiiRA Al)\MINI'iRAIIVI      Negro, tOi'lal
RbGIO\ (tAR;                      (,'nlalmal                                                                                      I411)sl,ill e(apila11.1l
R N610', I(AR1 I               I,l',I A'
iKl.oIgl..Alpis A            (obu
iontol.la  Peotnre           N*gNti Oona   ( Uipi il
ug.man                       lohol                                       -
i-pneuel                      IIqIl-I-r  ./                                                                                  l'rovinc e  lBntl(I.l< leN
I   (AilAGAAN   AIIFb                R ;   ASIIRAs vOSS                                /
Ialldns                        o-lheon Sama,                                                                                 Regioni BoLundaries
agaabn                      ikislero SarrIi                            "(I"\
IsIhel                       Fa plln  Sasag                                          laI,uei,aIa                              I nternaittioiial 13(Buoo idaries
Qailifl.o as                 Soul hern Ine ze                 v,g"fl.    AlalmuI|
III  CENTRAl [UZON                      lilkean                                     tinno,       11gP 
Nueva Fci1a            WFSIERN MINOINSO
Tarlac                       Zamboanga del Noner
Zamnbalares                  ZamIboanga del bar S      an FeKIahl -, 5110uII iRS I)                                             loll         21)1         11)11
Pamnpanga                    Basihan                                        -    (aba' .ll..u    .     .     .     .    .i.L. ng
Bala an                      SJIlU                                                                                                      1         I I  1S 1)  j.1  11)0  I .)  2101
OA ulCAPIA                    Ta-tlaw,                Liogane-         I
NATIlCAP                    NORTHERN MINDOANAO                       -     )
REGIO)N INCR- Surlgao del aorle                                  ".  §         Cyal
;\'  SOUTHERN TAGALOC                   Caoilw,n
Aurora                       Agusan del None                       1.da       .    t       z     z 7    1.
QuReon                       MIs-,is Ornental                       SaZ                         C
RIral                         bilsamis O-cldenlal                beeoancl
Cagnle                       Bukldnon                 Olons a pr'                 .
Laguna                       Agusan del Sur                      MANILA
Batangas               SOUl HFR  MINDANAO Ialangav                       *  -I'As5g
Maeinduque                   Sur.gan de: bur                    leore  V.      05t.C'u,
Mlndoro 0eidnlal             Davao Orlenlal                     il z                                   a-I
M,odoeo OccIdenlal           Dasao del None                   /                           '
RombPon                      Davao del Sue                 /                      Lucena                                .CATAN D   JAN  ES
Palavan                      Soulh Colabato                                                              P raanga  P.O
,-  BIOtL A                I   CFNTRAl MIINDANAO                 /                                                                A,
CaLarmes None                 Lanao del None          .                    c
Ca,marmes Sur                Lanao del Sbr               Npambura.-n                               ..g.p.
CAolallduanes                Nooh Cotaialot
Alkas                        Magumldanao                      I '                                             I             I
Sosobone                     Sullan Kudaral                MINIDORO 
1 2                                                                                            /                        Nil.ba-eK         SAMAR \                                I
I                   -t.llI,2~~-tl-ngI -
/           .Jal'b$o                sda                 Un7ralogan
/                    Rosan 
/      PIANAY                                          Iaclob1
Indi                                   E Jor lan/|
PALAWAN                             VISAYAS -Ebo   0)44
'Pueelou Pr,n.esa                           I NEGROS    \               laglfr-n
rflmauel g        .Sj.           lamnlo^ala  I      lancladF
X     //                         H0..
l-'
(' 1M   N Id A N A
-~~~~ I Y.l 
ilasilAnfTI
mw~~ SL 1 I                                                        '             Lolo                                       ,S   
2wnIIAYSv;  Bal, Rj saI u   rh map ha, hee,, b ell onl  be IN ll,e/dA lrnbP ;eu  1,1 'he c,e'Cr
N/ 3 01A S 5 S
120                                                     '24                                                      128
._JtNE   990



