Report No. PID10994
Project Name                     Jamaica-Second Bank Restructuring and (@)
Debt Management Program Loan (BRDP II)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       P073756
Borrower                         Government of Jamaica
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance & Planning (MOF)
Ms. Shirley Tyndall
Financial Secretary
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4, Jamaica, W.I.
Date this PID Prepared           September 12, 2002
Project appraisal date           August 12, 2002
Project Board Date               October 10, 2002
Country and Sector Background
Jamaica faced a severe financial sector crisis in 1995-96. In
brief, newly privatized banks and non-bank financial
institutions operating under an inadequate regulatory and
supervisory regime undertook risky lending and investment
activities in an environment of a booming real estate market.
When government macroeconomic policy caused high interest rates
and the real-estate bubble burst, many of these institutions
failed. The legal framework for intervening financial
institutions was weak and gave inadequate powers of
intervention, sanction, and enforcement to supervisors.
Loan objectives, description, and financing
The proposed operation would be the second of a series of two
loans in support of the Government's BRDP for a total amount of
US$150 million. The proposed loan will be for US$75 million, to
be disbursed in full in a single tranche, upon effectiveness.
This second phase of the Government's Bank Restructuring and
Debt Management Program (BRDP) includes the following key
elements:
Resolution of financial institutions. The Bank's first loan
supported the sale of one large bank in which the Government had
a majority equity stake. At the time, the Government continued
to have majority equity stakes in two other financial
institutions - the largest insurance company and the then
largest commercial bank in Jamaica. This operation will support
the resolution of these two financial institutions in a manner
acceptable to the Bank. As part of the resolution, Bank funds
will be used to retire a part of the government bonds being held
at these financial institutions and will complement other
sources of funds available to the Government such as fiscal
resources, proceeds from asset disposal, and loans from other
international financial institutions (IFIs).
Resolution of crisis management agency. This loan will also
support the closure of FINSAC the Government's crisis



management agency which would have completed all its assigned
functions. The Government plans to close FINSAC operations before Board approval. It
would have sold all major financial institutions in which the
Government had acquired equity stakes during the crisis, and
also disposed of a substantial majority of non-performing loans
and other non-core assets that it acquired. Some legal
responsibilities as well as administrative responsibilities
remain, which will be transferred to the Financial Institutions
Services (FIS).
Restructuring and management of the public debt arising from the
resolution of the financial crisis. The Bank's first loan
supported the Government's actions in restructuring FINSAC's
liabilities and its commitment to convert all outstanding FINSAC
liabilities into negotiable government bonds and service them in
cash. Since the approval of the first loan, the Government has
implemented all its commitments in this area. This loan will
support the Government's efforts to continue to service all Government bonds that replaced
FINSAC liabilities with the private sector in cash.
Regulatory and supervisory reforms in the financial sector. In
order to reduce the vulnerability of Jamaica's financial system
to future crises, this loan will support continuing efforts by
the Government to strengthen the legal, regulatory, and
supervisory environment of the financial sector. In the banking
sector, since the approval of the first Bank loan, the BOJ has
undertaken an independent assessment of the Basle Core
Principles of bank regulation and supervision. The BOJ and the
Government have also taken steps to address all areas of
weakness identified in the independent assessment. Necessary
legislative measures have been approved and capacity building of
the BOJ is proceeding. Significant strengthening of the
legislative, regulatory, and supervisory framework for the non-
bank sector has been undertaken since the approval of the first
Bank loan. A new Insurance Act in line with international best
practice - has been approved and implementing regulations put in
place. The Financial Services Commission (FSC), a new
integrated regulator and supervisor for institutions in
insurance, securities, and pension has begun operations and its
operational capacity is being strengthened.
Improving the environment for renewed bank lending. Since the
onset of the crisis in the mid-1990s, there has been little new
bank lending in Jamaica. With the resolution of all major
financial institutions, the banking sector is looking ahead to
resume lending operations. These are essential to re-start
economic growth. This loan will support the Government's actions
in establishing a credit bureau, which is an essential, but
currently missing, element in the financial infrastructure of
Jamaica.
Program implementation
The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOF) is the implementing
agency for the operation. FINSAC will be closely involved with
the MOF in the implementation of the    actions supported by this
operation.
Program sustainability
The actions being supported under the proposed loan are intended
to ensure the sustainability of the financial sector in Jamaica.
- 2-



Resolution of the financial sector crisis is essential if the
Jamaican economy is to achieve sustained economic growth in the
future. The resolution transactions to be supported by this
operation are expected to create stronger institutions with
greater liquidity that will be able to operate and expand credit
availability in the Jamaican market.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The operation has been designed to take into account the lessons
learned from the Bank's past experience in Jamaica and in other
countries in the region. It is being structured taking into
account the capacity of the Government to take actions on
various issues.    The operation is based on strong borrower
ownership that is necessary in complicated, time-intensive
banking sector operations. Loan disbursements are being
restricted to specific policy actions and transactions that are
part of the Government's overall reform strategy.
Poverty category
The proposed loan would have little social impact in the short-
run. In the longer run, however, the measures supported by this
operation would have important social implications as they would
assist in the creation of an environment conducive to the
resumption of prudent lending to the private sector, with the
associated benefits in terms of output growth and employment
generation. The ultimate objective of the
restructuring/resolution process supported by the proposed
operation is a better functioning financial sector, able to
withstand external shocks and better able to lend to the private
sector. Given the extremely low level of new lending in Jamaica
as a result of the financial crisis, it is hoped that new
lending would spur economic growth and thereby create more job
opportunities. A banking system less vulnerable to crises will
be better able to sustain growth and, therefore, improve the
welfare of the poor, who tend to be severely affected by
generalized banking system dislocations.
Environmental aspects
The bank restructuring and debt management program to be
supported by the proposed loan is not expected to have any
environmental impact. For that reason, it has been placed in
Category "U", in accordance with the Bank's Operational Policy
on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01).
Program Objective Category. The Program Objective Category is
Economic Management (EA).
Contact Point:
Co-Task Team Leader
Yira Mascaro
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-7800
Fax: (202) 522-2106
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
-3-



Washington , D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
September 20, 2002.
- 4 -



