                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26257

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-71500)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 75 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                JAMAICA

                                                 FOR A

          SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
                                         ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                              June 30, 2003




Caribbean Country Management Unit
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2003)

                    Currency Unit = JMD
                        1.00JMD = US$ 0.017009
                   US$ 1.00 USD = 58.7935 JMD

                          FISCAL YEAR
                        April 1   March 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 BOJ                              Bank of Jamaica (Jamaica's Central Bank)
BRDP                          Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program
 CAN                                      Country Assistance Note
 CAS                                    Country Assistance Strategy
FINSAC                         Financial Sector Adjustment Company Limited
  FIS                                  Financial Institutions Services
 FSC                                  Financial Services Commission
  FY                                            Fiscal Year
 GDP                                      Gross Domestic Product
  IDB                               Inter-American Development Bank
  IFI                                International Financial Institution
 IMF                                    International Monetary Fund
  LOJ                                         Life of Jamaica
 LRS                              Locally Registered Stock (Treasury bonds)
 MOF                                  Ministry of Finance & Planning
 MOU                                  Memorandum of Understanding
 NCB                                    National Commercial Bank
 NPLs                                      Non Performing Loans
RBTT                                 Royal Bank of Trinidad & Tobago
SMP                                       Staff Monitored Program



                   Vice President:    David de Ferranti
        Country Manager/Director:     Carolina D. Anstey
         Sector Manager/Director:     Fernando Montes-Negret
  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Yira J. Mascaró, P.S. Srinivas

                                          JAMAICA
                             Implementation Completion Report
       Second Bank Restructuring & Debt Management Program Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Financial Sector Adjustment Loan: Policy Reform Program                 31

Project ID: P073756                                                      Project Name: Second Bank Restructuring and Debt
                                                                         Management Program Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Yira J. Mascaro                                             TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Second Bank Restructuring and Debt                       L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71500
                            Management Program Adjustment Loan
   Country/Department: JAMAICA                                                            Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (75%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and
                            contractual savings (20%); Capital markets (5%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Legal institutions for a market economy
                            (P); Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Standards and
                            financial reporting (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/05/2000                                        Effective: 11/04/2002
   Appraisal:    02/05/2000                                            MTR:
    Approval:    10/24/2002                                         Closing: 12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          JAMAICA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Fernando Montes-Negret                         Fernando Montes - Negret
Team Leader at ICR:             Yira Mascaró , P.S. Srinivas                   Yira Mascaró , P.S. Srinivas
ICR Primary Author:             P. S. Srinivas


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The broad medium-term goals of the Government's Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program
(BRDP): The primary objectives of the Government's BRDP were to resolve the financial sector crisis and thereby
contribute to placing the economy on a growth path, take steps to reduce the vulnerability of the financial system to
future crises, and to restructure and manage the public debt arising from the financial crisis. Recognizing that
macroeconomic stability was essential to the achievement of the above objectives, the Government articulated an
overall macroeconomic framework aimed at placing the country's overall debt level as well as its dynamics on a
sustainable path. The above objectives were to be achieved through: (a) Sale/restructuring/resolution of all
intervened financial institutions in which the crisis management agency (FINSAC) had majority equity stakes; (b)
Disposal of the entire portfolio of non-performing loans (NPLs) and other assets acquired in its intervention and
rehabilitation stage; (c) Government take over of all outstanding FINSAC obligations and servicing these in cash;
and (d) Strengthening the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework for both banks and non-bank financial
institutions. It was understood that these objectives would be achieved in a phased manner.

Objectives of the first phase of the BRDP supported by the Bank's first loan in November 2000: The overall
objective of the first BRDP loan was to support the first phase of the Government's actions in achieving the above
medium term objectives. The loan supported specific actions taken by the Government prior to Board presentation
of the loan in the implementation of its BRDP. Specifically, the first loan supported (i) the sale of Union Bank
(UB); (ii) significant progress in restructuring the other two remaining intervened institutions ­National
Commercial Bank (NCB) and Life of Jamaica (LOJ), the largest domestic commercial bank and the largest
insurance company in Jamaica, respectively; (iii) the development of a strategy for disposing of its portfolio of
NPLs as well as progress in disposal of FINSAC's portfolio of other assets; (iii) the Government's commitment to
restructure FINSAC debt and service all remaining FINSAC obligations in cash beginning April 1, 2001; and (iv)
progress in strengthening the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework for both banks and non-bank financial
institutions.

Objectives of the second phase of the BRDP supported by the Bank's second loan in October 2002: The
overall objective of the second BRDP loan was to support Government actions aimed at largely completing the
resolution of the financial sector crisis in Jamaica and thereby achieving the medium term objectives mentioned
above. The second loan supported the following specific actions taken by the Government prior to Board
presentation: (i) Sale of NCB and LOJ; (ii) Resolution of entire portfolio of NPLs through realization/sale; (iii)
Sale of a significant portion of the portfolio of other assets; (iv) Winding down of FINSAC's operations; (v)
Continued strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for banks and non-bank financial
institutions; (vi) Continued implementation of the Government's debt management strategy; and (vii)
Strengthening the infrastructure of the Jamaican financial system by creating the legal framework to permit the
operation of credit bureaus.

Overview:
Before proceeding further in the report, it is critical for readers to have a broad perspective of the overall situation
in Jamaica as well as of the Bank's loans to the financial sector. The objective of this short section is to provide
such an overview.

Jamaica's financial sector faced a systemic crisis in the mid/late 1990s in which much of the domestically owned
financial sector became insolvent. In terms of fiscal cost of the crisis as a percentage of GDP ­ estimated at over 40
percent - it was one of the costliest financial sector crises in the world. In terms of the speed with which the crisis
was resolved, it was one of the fastest. Within five years of the creation of the crisis resolution agency, the vast
majority of assets acquired by the public sector through intervention had been sold, regulation and supervision
strengthened, costs of crisis resolution explicitly taken on to the Government budget, and the financial sector
completely restructured as well as placed on a path to enable it to support future economic growth.

The Bank provided two loans of US$75 million each to Jamaica in 2000 and 2002 to assist the Government in its
actions aimed at resolving the crisis. It worked closely with the Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank



                                                          - 2 -

(IDB), and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) in designing its assistance. Overall, the design, preparation,
implementation, supervision, and achievements of both Bank loans were satisfactory. The commitment of the
Government to the program of crisis resolution was also satisfactory and commendable. It would be a fair
assessment that viewed from the perspective of their impact on the financial sector as well as in terms of
restructuring the debt arising from the crisis the loans were largely successful.

However, despite the fact that the financial sector itself has been cleaned up and institutional strengthening
achieved to enable the sector to be far more robust in the future, it is extremely difficult, at this stage, to make a
categorical determination regarding the sustainability of the achievements under the loans. In all its documents
relating to the loans to the financial sector as well as several assessments of the Bank's first loan, and the CAS and
its update, the Bank has repeatedly highlighted macroeconomic instability as the major risk that could adversely
affect continued financial sector stability. In both loans, the Bank recognized these risks, as well as the fact that it
was not realistically possible for the Bank's loans to address all risks and mitigate them completely. Despite the
risks, the Bank believed it was worth supporting the Government's program, in order to play a constructive role in
moving the process of resolution of the financial sector crisis towards completion and thereby attempt to achieve
higher economic growth in Jamaica. The Bank was also of the view that not supporting Jamaica in its efforts at
restructuring the financial sector might expose the country to even greater risks were macroeconomic instability to
occur in the future. The Bank felt that a restructured financial sector largely in private hands, operating under a
sound regulatory and supervisory framework, with liquid assets providing the sector the ability to contribute to
economic growth would be better suited to dealing with evolving macroeconomic scenarios than a largely publicly
owned financial sector operating under a weak regulatory and supervisory framework and with assets dominated by
illiquid FINSAC bonds. The former is the scenario prevailing currently after the actions taken by the Government
and supported by the Bank's two loans, and the latter was the scenario prevailing prior to the Bank's two loans. It
was in this overall context that the Bank supported Jamaica.

Despite the Government's commitments to contain its overall public sector debt and fiscal achievements that are
commendable, Jamaica's public sector debt/GDP ratio ­ after a period of relative stability - has recently begun to
grow again. In addition, and partly as a result of the large debt burden, recent events indicate that, as of the date of
this report, Jamaica is facing a period of increased macroeconomic stress. If the macroeconomic situation creates
difficulties for the Government in servicing its large debt, the financial sector would be directly and rapidly
adversely impacted. The key reason for this is that the continued strength of the financial sector depends critically
on the assumption that the Government continues to satisfactorily service its large debt burden. The Government's
financial sector restructuring program has been largely successful in placing the sector on a path to recovery.
However, this was achieved by placing a large amount of Government debt in the sector, thereby raising its
exposure to Government credit risk. Government bonds form about a third of commercial banks' and insurance
firms' asset portfolios. As long as the Government continues to service its obligations, the financial sector is likely
to remain relatively sound. However, if the Government has difficulty servicing its debt, the quality of bank assets
will almost certainly rapidly erode, with concomitant adverse impact on banking system soundness. Clearly, the
financial sector in Jamaica has become more resilient after Government actions that were supported by the Bank's
loans. The key issue that remains unclear at this stage is whether the system is resilient enough to withstand the
impact of any further fiscal pressures that may be faced by the Government.

Therefore, it is important to keep in mind that while the Bank's loans supported actions that were successful in
restructuring the financial sector and managing the public debt arising from the crisis, adverse macroeconomic
developments in the short/medium term driven in large part by an extremely high overall public debt burden, could
undo many of these achievements.

Context:
In 2000, the Bank agreed to provide Jamaica with a series of two programmatic adjustment loans aimed at
assisting the Government in the implementation of its BRDP. The overall objective of the two loans was to support,
in a phased manner, the Government's BRDP aimed at completing the resolution of the financial crisis that started
in the mid-1990s, strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework of the financial sector to make it less
vulnerable to future crises, and restructuring the public debt arising as a result of the crisis. The two-loan approach
was chosen in order to create a flexible framework within which the Bank could assist Jamaica. In November 2000,



                                                           - 3 -

the Bank provided Jamaica with the first of the two programmatic adjustment loans with a clearly defined set of
objectives that went part of the way towards achieving the overall objective of the BRDP. The current loan ­
approved in October 2002 - was the second in the series and was aimed at assisting the Government in its efforts at
taking its BRDP to completion.

In the mid-1990s, Jamaica faced a systemic financial crisis with solvency and liquidity problems in virtually the
entire domestically owned banking and insurance sectors. As described in the President's Reports of the two loans
(Report Nos. P7397 JM and P7527 JM), the crisis was largely attributable to rapid financial sector liberalization
that was not complemented by a sufficiently robust prudential and regulatory infrastructure and strong
enforcement. This enabled risky investment and lending operations by a large number and variety of new financial
institutions. In particular, insurance companies raised funds through deposit-like instruments disguised as
insurance premiums, and invested the same in real estate, stocks, and securities. As the Government's
macroeconomic policies aimed at containing high inflation led to high interest rates and the prevailing real-estate
bubble burst, insurance companies faced liquidity problems and tapped mostly their related banks for funds. This
transmitted liquidity problems to banks, triggering the crisis. Facing systemic insolvency, the Government placed a
universal guarantee on deposits, provided liquidity to weak banks through extensive overdraft facilities from the
central bank (Bank of Jamaica, or BOJ), and established a failure resolution agency ­The Financial Sector
Adjustment Company (FINSAC)-- to intervene, rehabilitate, and divest troubled financial institutions. The
Government also started a process of strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework, aimed at reducing
the vulnerability of the financial system to future crises.

Although the Government contained the crisis, the stabilization of the financial sector came at a substantial cost.
Being cash constrained, FINSAC had issued non-tradable Government guaranteed bonds (on which interest was
capitalized) to intervened financial institutions in exchange for non-performing assets or equity stakes. The
ensuing rapid growth of FINSAC debt worsened as interest rates continued to rise, leading to a stock of debt of
J$143 billion as of March 2001 (about 44 percent of GDP). This added to an already large pre-crisis public debt
burden of about 100 percent of GDP, leading to an extremely high overall level of debt as well as to adverse debt
dynamics.

The Government recognized the urgent need to resolve the crisis and contain the adverse debt dynamics in order to
restart economic growth. Although costly and difficult to achieve, cash interest payments on FINSAC bonds
became a central component of the Government's strategy to complete the resolution of the crisis. By restoring
liquidity to the financial system and disposing of the Government's equity stakes in a large share of the system, a
financial, as opposed to an accounting, resolution of the crisis was attempted. The Government approached the
Bank, the IDB, and the CDB, for funds that would support this strategy. With the support of these International
Financial Institutions' (IFI's) loans to retire a portion of FINSAC paper, the Government expected to improve the
profile of its debt, by replacing high-cost short-term domestic debt with cheaper, longer-maturity, international
(dollar-denominated) debt. The Government also requested IFI support in formulating a strategy for resolution of
the crisis and strengthening the financial sector in order to reduce the vulnerability of the system to future crises.
The overall strategy formulated by the Government with IFI support involved a phased approach to crisis
resolution.

The Bank approved a US$75 million in November 2000 and disbursed it in full in December 2000 to support the
first phase of the Government's program. The loan was part of a programmatic approach in which the Bank
envisioned providing a second loan (to which this document pertains) of an equivalent amount to support the
second phase of the Government's program. The IDB approved a two-tranche loan for US$150 million in
September 2000 and disbursed the first tranche shortly thereafter. Faced with the external shocks of late 2001 ­
mainly the adverse impact of the events in the US of September 11, 2001, the IDB responded to the Government's
request for funds by formally splitting the second tranche into two components of US$40 and $35 million each.
The first component of the second tranche for US$40 million was disbursed in March 2002. In response to this
emergency situation, the Bank provided Jamaica with emergency assistance (not related to actions in the financial
sector) of US$ 75 million. The CDB approved a US$25 million loan, all of which has been disbursed. The CDB




                                                          - 4 -

also approved an additional US$4 million for ongoing technical assistance.

The Government provided the macroeconomic underpinning for these loans through two Staff Monitored Programs
(SMPs) with the IMF. The first SMP covered the two-year period April 2000 to March 2002, (IMF Document No.
EBS/00/152) and the second SMP (Country Report No. 02/197) covered the period April 2002 to March 2003. In
these SMPs, the Government committed itself to tight fiscal policies to generate large primary surpluses for the
medium term that would enable it to service its debt. As of the date of the approval of the Bank's second loan,
Fund staff had assessed Jamaica's performance under the SMP to be "broadly on track" and the Bank's CAS
update had agreed with this assessment. However, both assessments had highlighted that the macroeconomic
situation was still extremely fragile and subject to high risk.

Assessment: The overall two-loan programmatic structure of the Bank's loans in support of the Government's
BRDP was appropriately designed with clear objectives suited for single tranche operations. Both loans supported
up-front actions that were taken before presentation of the loans to the Bank's Board and both loans were disbursed
fully upon effectiveness. An assessment of the first loan in greater detail is provided in the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) of the first loan (report No. 23336) distributed to the Board in December 2001. As far as
the second loan is concerned, its objectives were fully consistent with the Government's policy agenda, as outlined
in several budget presentations of the Government to the Jamaican Parliament during 2000-02 as well as laid out
in the two SMPs of the Fund. In addition, the two BRDP loans were the central components of the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No. 21187, November 2000). An update of the CAS reinforced the importance of
the second BRDP loan and was discussed by the Bank's Board together with the President's Report of the second
loan in October 24, 2002. The objectives of the second loan were therefore fully aligned with those of the CAS as
well as its update. As mentioned above, the Government's overall program was also supported by an IDB
two-tranche loan for US$150 million approved on September 2000 and by a CDB US$25 million loan also
approved in September 2000. As noted in earlier Bank documents, the total amount of US$ 150 million provided
by the Bank under the two loans ­ was only a small part of the overall cost of the crisis. The Bank's two loans
contributed to the restructuring of only about 5 percent of the overall debt incurred by the Government as a result
of its interventions during the crisis. However, while the financial contribution of the loans ­ relative to the total
cost of the crisis - was modest, the loans' impact lay in their support of significant structural reforms in the
financial sector undertaken by the Government.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Loan objectives remained unchanged.


3.3 Original Components:
As discussed above, the second BRDP loan was designed as the second loan of a series of two single-tranche
adjustment operations under a programmatic approach supporting the second phase of the Government's BRDP.
The components included specific actions and commitments in the following areas:

Resolution of financial institutions: A key component of the Government's overall program was the
sale/resolution of the three major intervened institutions. The first BRDP loan supported the sale of Union Bank as
well as certain critical initial steps necessary in order to achieve the ultimate sale of NCB and LOJ. The second
loan supported the sale of FINSAC's majority equity stakes in both these institutions. As of January 2002, FINSAC
had no majority equity stakes in any financial institution in Jamaica. The responsibility of disposing of the
Government's minority (and relatively small value) equity stakes in a few other financial institutions was handed
over to Financial Institutions Services (FIS) ­ another public agency - upon the closure of FINSAC's operations.

Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Non-performing Loans: The first loan supported the formulation of a strategy for the
full disposal of NPLs acquired by FINSAC. Under the second loan, FINSAC disposed of its entire portfolio of
NPLs to a foreign bank.

Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Other Assets: A large part of intervened bank portfolios was concentrated in real




                                                          - 5 -

estate ­ either as assets financed through loans or as collateral. FINSAC therefore became the owner of numerous
real estate assets (such as hotels, commercial and residential real estate, furniture & equipment, artwork, and motor
vehicles) and other non-core assets. The first loan supported FINSAC's efforts in continuing the disposal of these
assets, under a plan acceptable to the Bank. Under the second loan, FINSAC disposed of about 98 percent of its
total residential properties and 75 percent of total commercial properties as of the end-July 2002. It also sold J$3.9
billion in other assets (including motor vehicles, artwork, furniture and equipment etc.).

Winding Down of FINSAC: With the completion of FINSAC's responsibilities of intervening and rehabilitating
crisis-hit institutions and subsequently, disposing of its majority equity stakes in intervened institutions, the
Government closed FINSAC operations as of July 2002.

Strengthening the financial infrastructure in Jamaica: An important component of the infrastructure of a
modern financial system is a centralized credit bureau through which relevant information of debtors would be
available to financial institutions and other third parties, with adequate safeguards for protection of privacy. A
centralized credit bureau does not yet exist in Jamaica. As part of the actions supported by the proposed second
loan, the Government drafted a bill for the enactment of a Credit Reporting Act, which will provide the regulatory
framework for the establishment of Credit Bureaus in Jamaica.

Strengthening of Regulation and Supervision of the Financial Sector: The Bank's first loan supported a
concrete set of Government actions aimed at strengthening the regulatory, legal, and supervisory framework of the
financial sector. Details of these actions are available in the two President's Reports of the loans as well as the ICR
of the first loan. The second loan supported further actions in this area. Specifically: (i) relevant legislation was
amended to strengthen specific weaknesses identified in BOJ's compliance with the Basle Core Principles
(relating to consolidated supervision and remedial measures); (ii) amendments to various statutes were introduced
to strengthen the independence of the BOJ; (iii) BOJ continued to undertake actions to clarify and increase
transparency of its supervision of the banking sector; and (regarding supervision of non-banking sector) (iv) the
new Insurance Act was enacted and the Financial Services Commission (FSC) --new regulatory agency for the
non-banking sector-- established and is functioning; and (v) the FSC has undertaken steps to strengthen its
institutional capacity, including putting in place a framework for risk based supervision and training its staff to
conduct such supervision.

Implementation of the Government's Debt Management Strategy: The Bank's loans focused primarily on
supporting Government actions to be taken for prudent management of the debt arising from the interventions in
the financial sector and its management in a manner conducive to the development of the restructured financial
sector. The Bank's loans did attempt to address the overall public sector debt (beyond the narrower issue of the
debt arising from the financial crisis) and its management, although this was not the primary focus of the Bank's
loans. The Government satisfactorily implemented its commitments ­ made under the first loan - to convert all
outstanding FINSAC securities at intervened financial institutions into government debt and began servicing them
in cash. As discussed in the ICR of the Bank's first loan in support of the BRDP, as well as the President's Report
of the Bank's second loan, there were delays experienced in addressing FINSAC debt at the BOJ. This portion of
the debt was restructured prior to the approval of the Bank's second loan although the agreement between the
Government and the BOJ is that Government bonds that replaced FINSAC paper will continue to accrue interest
until 2007/08. Although the Government did not meet its commitment ­ made in the first loan - of keeping the
overall public debt (in Jamaican dollar terms) on a declining path from its level in 2000, deviations from this level
were explained in the 2001 Article IV and revisions to the first SMP in mid-2001. The Government also
committed to a revised macroeconomic scenario in the second SMP approved in 2002 in which it outlined
measures to tackle the shocks experienced in 2001. Prior to the approval of the second loan, the Fund assessed the
Governments macroeconomic performance ­ including its debt management ­ to be broadly on track and the Bank,
in its CAS update agreed with this assessment. In its Letter of Sector Development Policy, the Government
reaffirmed its commitment to manage its public debt in the short-, and medium-term and meet the structural
benchmarks outlined in the SMP with the objective of placing Jamaica debt/GDP ratio on a sustainable path.

Assessment: The design of the second phase of the BRDP loan was sound and in line with achieving the overall




                                                          - 6 -

objective of bringing the resolution of the financial sector crisis to completion. Under the loan, the Government
essentially completed the sale of all major institutions in government hands as a result of interventions during the
crisis, sold the entire portfolio of non-performing loans and other non-core assets, closed the operations of
FINSAC, and took specific and relevant steps to further strengthen the institutional framework and thereby reduce
the vulnerability of the system to future crises. Through the conversion of illiquid FINSAC paper at intervened
financial institutions to tradeable government bonds, the Government explicitly recognized the fiscal cost of the
crisis. Simultaneously, the banking system was provided with the necessary liquidity to enable it to resume lending
that could contribute to increased economic growth. The loan also incorporated actions and commitments aimed at
reversing the adverse debt dynamics facing Jamaica. The Government's satisfactory macroeconomic performance
under two SMPs formed the basis of its commitment to fiscal policies that could reverse the adverse debt dynamics.

3.4 Revised Components:
The loan components remained unchanged.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was Satisfactory. The loan's objectives were consistent with both the Government's medium-term
goals and the Bank's CAS. The loan's objectives were also in line with the overall direction for the programmatic
approach formulated in the first loan in support of the Government's BRDP. The design of the loan clearly
incorporated lessons learned from the Bank's previous experience in Jamaica (and Mexico). Prior to the two Bank
loans in support of the Government's BRDP, the Bank's experience with adjustment lending to Jamaica had been
mixed.    In some previous adjustment operations, not all the agreed upon actions had been satisfactorily
implemented. The client's view was that the operations were over-designed and lacked flexibility while the Bank's
view was that there was not enough ownership of agreed upon reforms by the Government. Both the Bank's loans
in support of the BRDP incorporated these lessons. Reform actions that were supported by the loans were fully
implemented by the Government prior to Board consideration of the loans. The timing of the loans and close
coordination and policy dialogue with the Government ensured that the loans supported actions that had strong
Government ownership and commitment. Similar to the first loan, the design of the second loan as a single tranche
loan with up-front actions for effectiveness provided a flexible framework within which to address changing
circumstances.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As stated above, the overall objectives of the Government's BRDP were to resolve the financial sector crisis and
thereby contribute to placing the economy on a growth path, take steps to reduce the vulnerability of the financial
system to future crises, and to restructure and manage the public debt arising from the financial crisis. The Bank's
loans were aimed at supporting this overall Government BRDP.

The implementation experience of the second BRDP loan has been Satisfactory as the loan supported specific
actions ­ that are hard to reverse - taken prior to Board presentation aimed at addressing all of the above
objectives. In terms of completing the resolution of the financial sector, the Government sold its majority stake in
the two remaining large intervened financial institutions to foreign private investors. The Government currently
has only minor (and low value) equity stakes left in the financial sector (which it is in the process of disposing of)
and has no controlling stakes in any institution. In terms of reducing the vulnerability of the system to future
crises, the Government has enacted new legislation, strengthened existing regulatory and supervisory agencies in
the banking sector, established a new regulatory entity for the non-bank sector (FSC) and is in the process of
strengthening this new agency. In terms of restructuring of the public debt arising from the crisis, the large stock of
illiquid FINSAC debt was converted into tradeable Government bonds. There were no FINSAC bonds outstanding
in Jamaica as of the date of approval of the Bank's second loan. The primary advantage of this action was to
provide liquidity to the restructured financial sector to enable it to be in a position to resume lending and contribute
to economic growth. In the process, this action also made the fiscal cost of the crisis explicit and thereby
contributed to imposing the necessary discipline on the Government in servicing this debt. Therefore, viewed from




                                                          - 7 -

the perspective of achieving the overall objectives of the BRDP, the loan was successful.

However, as mentioned above, the Government had also committed to a macroeconomic framework within which
it was expected that the overall public debt of the Government would be placed on a sustainable path. Satisfactory
implementation of this framework would have provided the necessary basis for sustainability of the achievements
under the Bank's loans. Despite a period of relative stability of the debt/GDP ratio during 2000-02 ­, in recent
months since the approval of the second loan it has become apparent that the Government has not been able to
reverse the increasing trend of the debt/GDP ratio, although its significant fiscal efforts have been commended by
the Bank's CAS in 2000, the CAS update in 2002, as well as the two SMPs of the Fund. From a level of about
131.2 percent of GDP estimated at the time of approval of the first loan, and a level of about 130 percent of GDP
estimated at the time of approval of second loan, the debt/GDP ratio has risen to about 150 percent of GDP
currently ­ instead of declining as projected in SMPs as well as the Bank's CAS. As discussed in more detail in
Section 6 below, it seems that it will be extremely difficult to ensure that the debt/GDP ratio does not rise further
beyond this already high level, except in fairly narrow set of economic scenarios. Therefore, viewed from the
perspective of its ability to positively impact the Government's overall debt situation and its management, the
achievements of the second loan have been limited.

The evolution of the public debt remains the major risk faced by the Government's BRDP and the Bank's
programmatic series of loans in support of the program. The greatest risk to financial sector stability that has been
repeatedly highlighted in Bank documents as well as clearly understood by the Government is the Government's
overall macroeconomic performance. In the process of restructuring the financial sector, the Government replaced
non-performing loans at banks with Government bonds. About a third of all banking sector assets in Jamaica are
Government bonds (and close to half for RBTT and NCB). As long as the Government continues to service these
bonds in full, on time, and in cash, the financial sector can reasonably be expected to be stable and the
achievements of the two BRDP loans sustained. If, however, Government macroeconomic performance deteriorates
and it is unable to service its debt in the banking system, the quality of banking system assets can erode rapidly
potentially leading to another systemic crisis. The cause of such a crisis, however, would be the Government
macroeconomic performance and not the inherent structure, regulation, and supervision of the financial system ­
all of which have improved substantially due to Government actions that were supported by the Bank's two loans.

It is however important to note that despite the prevailing macroeconomic situation and despite the significant
risks faced, the banking sector is far better placed now to handle any stresses and support private-sector led growth
as compared to the situation that might have prevailed had the actions supported by the Bank's two loans not been
taken by the Government. Government debt as a percentage of total assets at NCB and RBTT (formerly
Union Bank) has declined from 61 and 78 percent, respectively, in September 2000 --prior to the first BRDP
loan, to 49 and 45 percent, respectively as of March 2003. Also, the Government's actions since the crisis have
placed the banking and insurance sectors almost entirely in private hands ­ with the largest financial institutions
being foreign owned. The regulatory and supervisory structure has been significantly strengthened. Illiquid
FINSAC debt in the intervened financial institutions has been replaced by tradeable Government bonds, thereby
providing liquidity to the financial system to support economic growth through increased lending. As a result of
these actions, the financial sector is now more robust and profitable than it was prior to these actions being taken
by the Government. The banking system is in a much better position now to weather any shocks that may occur in
the future. Large players in the financial system (mostly commercial banks) are now in a position to potentially be
a part of a solution to any future macroeconomic problems as compared to them being part of the problem prior to
the actions taken by the Government under its BRDP. Therefore, while it is important to recognize that the
macroeconomic situation does pose significant risks to the sustainability of the achievements in the financial
sector, it is also important to recognize that the Government's actions supported by the Bank's loans have
significantly strengthened the ability of the financial sector to withstand stresses.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Following the structure of the second BRDP loan as a single-tranche adjustment lending operation, the actions
were completed prior to Board presentation. As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower took the key actions
described in section 4.3. Evidence of the Borrower's compliance with all of the loan conditions is provided in




                                                         - 8 -

Annex 8 of this report.

Resolution of financial institutions:

National Commercial Bank- FINSAC sold its entire majority shareholding in NCB in January 2002 to a
subsidiary of AIC Limited ­ the 11th largest mutual fund in Canada ­ for a total consideration of US$ 125 million
(the net asset value of the bank as of September 2001). The BOJ reports that NCB is performing satisfactorily,
with higher asset quality, increasing share of lending to total assets, lower share of Government securities to total
assets, and higher profitability. As of December 2002, NCB has a market share of commercial bank assets of 38
percent, similar to its share in 2001.

Life of Jamaica- FINSAC sold its entire majority shareholding in Life of Jamaica in November 2001, to a
subsidiary of Barbados Mutual Assurance Society for US$ 41 million. The FSC reports the LOJ is performing
satisfactorily, reflecting the major restructuring process undertaken through its sale, as supported by preliminary
on-site supervision results. LOJ is also in the process of merger with Island Life. As of December 2002, LOJ has a
market share of total life insurance assets of 16 percent, similar to its share in 2002. Once the merger is
completed, its market share could increase to 22 percent (including the current market share of Island Life).

Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Non-performing Loans:

FINSAC acquired a non-performing loan portfolio of J$74 billion (face value of J$33 billion along with accrued
interest) from intervened financial institutions. FINSAC established a workout unit to manage this portfolio and
attempt its recovery. By August 2001, this unit had recovered about J$5.7 billion. As part of the actions supported
by the second loan, the balance of the portfolio was sold to a subsidiary of Beal Bank of Texas in January 2002.
The Government received a down payment of US$23 million (about J$1.1 billion), and the sale is structured so that
the government shares in the recoveries actually made by the purchaser are according to the following schedule: 15
percent of the first US$50 million recovered, 25 percent of the second, 35 percent of the third, 45 percent of the
fourth, and 50 percent of the remainder. Based on cash flow projections for the next 3-4 years (following the sale)
where the buyer expects to collect approximately US$215 million in gross proceeds, total estimated income for the
Government is about US$90 million. This would result in a recovery rate of about 22 cents per dollar face value of
NPLs. As of May 2003, FINSAC's total recoveries amounted to about US$27.3 million (about J$1.3 billion).


Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Other Assets:


Under the first loan, by August 2001, FINSAC had sold J$11 billion of other assets it had acquired. As part of the
actions supported by the second loan, FINSAC made further progress in this area, with total sales of J$15 billion.
It sold 98 percent of the portfolio of residential properties ­ realizing a total amount of J$0.5 billion. It disposed of
J$10.6 billion of commercial properties (including freehold land, industrial assets, & hotels) accounting for about
75 percent of the total. Out of six hotels it had acquired, FINSAC sold four, entered into a lease agreement for
another hotel with an option to buy (by end-2003), and put the remaining hotel under a long-term management
contract with an international private hotel management firm. As of May 2003, the Government had also sold
J$3.9 billion in other assets.


Winding down of FINSAC

With the completion of FINSAC's responsibilities of intervening and rehabilitating crisis-hit institutions and
subsequently, disposing of its majority equity stakes in intervened institutions, the Government closed FINSAC
operations as of July 2002. The winding down of FINSAC had a significant positive signaling effect of indicating
the end of a crisis and the beginning of a new era with stronger financial institutions. The management of the
Government's minority stakes in intervened institutions as well as the responsibility of completing the legal
procedures required to formally close down institutions that have already ceased operations have been transferred
to FIS. At the time of approval of the second loan, the Government had minority equity stakes in three institutions.
The Government has since divested FINSAC's minority equity stakes of 26 percent in Island Life, exchanged



                                                          - 9 -

US$8.25 million of preferred shares in Victoria Mutual Building Society (VMBS) for Government bonds, and is
proceeding with the divestment of stakes of 26.5 percent in Dyoll Insurance Co. In addition, progress has been
made in legally closing down the many subsidiaries of the financial institutions that FINSAC had acquired. Most
of the remaining actions in this area are procedural and in some cases, the final resolution of some of the
companies will be protracted, as there are legal and administrative issues surrounding them. The gross financial
exposure of the Government on account of these remaining ownership stakes is small.

Strengthening of the Financial Infrastructure in Jamaica

An important component of the infrastructure of a modern financial system is a centralized credit bureau through
which relevant information of debtors would be available to financial institutions and other third parties, with
adequate safeguards for protection of privacy. Such a bureau permits financial institutions to better manage credit
risk exposures to borrowers as well as permits the supervisor to better monitoring credit risk of supervised entities.
A centralized credit bureau does not yet exist in Jamaica. The Government (as well as the banking sector
participants) recognized the importance of such an entity for the future growth and development of the Jamaican
financial market. As part of the actions supported by the second loan, the Government drafted a Credit Reporting
Act for the creation of Credit Bureaus in Jamaica and submitted it for public consultation prior to its presentation
to Parliament. This draft Credit Reporting Act provides for the licensing of credit bureaus by the Minister of
Finance, with prior recommendation of the BOJ. It also spells out the conditions and limits for the disclosure of
information, the form and content of consumer information, as well as the offenses and penalties for breaching of
the law. Credit bureaus, managed by the private sector, are to be considered as credit institutions, thus subject to
the scrutiny of the BOJ, the FSC, and the MOF; managers and directors should comply with fit and proper
provisions. The Government expects to send this Act to Parliament during 2003.


Strengthening of Regulation and Supervision of the Financial Sector:

The Bank's first loan supported several actions of the Government in continuing to strengthen that regulatory and
supervisory regime for the financial sector in Jamaica. Since the approval of the first loan, the BOJ continued to
further strengthen its supervisory capabilities and bring them in line with international best practice. It is widely
acknowledged by supervised institutions that the scrutiny performed by the BOJ has dramatically improved since
the crisis.

In line with its commitments to the Bank under the first loan, the BOJ undertook an independent assessment of its
compliance with the Basle Core Principles (BCP) in 2001. The IMF led the assessment team with participation
from staff of the Financial Services Authority of the UK and the Bank of Sweden. The assessment concluded that
the BOJ was fully compliant with 11 principles, largely compliant with 8, materially noncompliant with 5, and
noncompliant with 1. Thus, even prior to the approval of the second loan, Jamaica showed a satisfactory level of
compliance with the BCPs. Areas of weaknesses identified by the assessment related to independence of bank
supervisors, consolidated supervision, remedial measures (as impacted by BOJ's limited autonomy to take action),
and market and country risks. In relation to market and country risk, the IMF-led team also acknowledged that
work which had already proceeded apace under the BOJ's action plan arising from its earlier self-assessment
would result in material upgrading in this area in the short term. Based on this assessment, the BOJ updated its
earlier action plan and implemented specific proposals to address areas of weakness. The main actions undertaken
by the BOJ included the drafting of prudential regulations on country risk, market risk and consolidated
supervision as well as obtaining IMF-sponsored technical assistance initiatives on market risk and consolidated
supervision. The technical assistance received included training of supervisory staff in the areas of market risk and
consolidated supervision. The BOJ also undertook other training initiatives in the area of market risk, which had
involved training of several senior examiners by the Federal Reserve Board, and specific assignments of such
senior officers at Federal Reserve Banks on Market Risk examinations.

As part of the actions supported by the Bank's second loan, relevant legislation was amended to enable BOJ's
compliance with two of the five BCPs (relating to consolidated supervision and remedial measures) in which
Jamaica had been found to be materially non-compliant.



                                                       - 10 -

·        The BOJ was granted the necessary powers to carry out consolidated supervision over banks and building
societies, including extended jurisdiction over non-banking institutions integrated in banking groups. In addition,
MOUs were signed among the two main financial supervisory agencies (BOJ and FSC), the Jamaica Deposit
Insurance Corporation, and the Ministry of Finance, which gave legal underpinning to the formation of a
coordinating body, the Financial Regulatory Council (FRC), chaired by the Governor of the BOJ. This Council
commenced meetings in December 2000 and has issued reports to the Finance Minister;

·        The BOJ was granted the power to require the restructuring of a group of companies to ensure that
financial and non-financial activities are segregated in different sub-groups within an economic group so as to
reduce the possibility of contagion;

·        The BOJ was granted the power to require the segregation of non-banking activities in banks by the
transfer of those operations to a separate corporate entity;

·        The BOJ was given the power to impose penalties in cases of specified technical breaches of the banking
statutes and the schedule of fines and penalties was upgraded;

·        Powers of temporary management of deposit taking financial institutions were transferred from the
Minister of Finance and Planning to the BOJ;

·        The categories of exemptions to bank secrecy laws were extended to permit disclosure of information
where it is in the specific bank's interest that the information be disclosed (example for the purposes of the
acquisition of the bank by outside parties);

·        The Minister of Finance was granted power to issue regulations relating to external auditors; and

·        Deposit-taking institutions were prohibited to manage funds on behalf of clients.

To achieve compliance with the issue of independence of the supervisor, amendments to various statutes were
introduced in March 2002 transferring from the Minister to the BOJ the power of temporary management; the
Minister retains powers of approval and revocation of licenses, final determination on persons debarred from bank
management, vesting the shares of an intervened institution and other regulation making powers. Similar to the
reform of the process for determining fit and proper criteria pursuant to the granting of new licenses, the Minister
is now also required to obtain the prior positive recommendation of the BOJ when authorizing the change of
control of a deposit-taking institution or a banking group.

To achieve compliance with the two other core principles (relating to investment criteria and market risks) with
which the BOJ was also materially non-compliant and, more generally, to strengthen the overall regulatory
framework, the BOJ proposed the introduction of further amendments to legislation including: (i) streamlining the
provisions relating to the acquisition of interest in deposit-taking institutions and introducing new definitions of
"control", "subsidiary", "parent company", and "capital base"; (ii) requiring institutions to notify the BOJ of any
proposed acquisition of any other company and prior to undertaking of any new type of business, with the BOJ
reserving the right to veto such acquisition or undertaking; (iii) requiring shareholders of institutions to advise of
any transaction which will increase a shareholder's holdings by incrementals of 5 percent or more, or will increase
the shareholder's holdings to 20 percent, 50 percent or 75 percent or more of voting power or issued shares;
requiring institutions to advise the BOJ of any investment or credit facility in excess of 5 percent of the capital
base; and (iv) introducing a new definition of capital.

Further subsidiary regulations have been drafted by the BOJ to develop and implement the new supervisory
approach. Thus, new regulations are expected to be approved in the near future regarding capital adequacy, credit
classification and provisioning, qualifications of external auditors, and supervision of credit unions:

·        Credit and Provisioning Regulations are expected to provide guidelines for the classification of the loan




                                                         - 11 -

portfolio and will establish minimum provisioning requirements. Jamaican banks are already complying with these
rules.

·         Capital Adequacy Regulations are expected to enhance capital standards in Jamaica by introducing Tier I
and Tier II capital. Jamaican banks already comply with the new requirements.

·         Qualification of Auditors. These regulations are expected to specify the standards for external auditors, in
terms of independence, experience, and academic professional qualification, and are expected to require prior
notification to the BOJ of proposed appointments.

·         Credit Union Regulations. These regulations are expected to prescribe prudential criteria and minimum
solvency standards for credit cooperatives, as well as other essential rules regarding capital adequacy, prohibitions
on certain areas of business, credit and provisioning, submission of financial statements and returns, remedial
actions, etc.


The BOJ continued to update the "ladder of enforcement" ("Guide to Intervention of Supervised Financial
Institutions") that clearly spells out to the industry the supervisory approach of the BOJ, aimed at (i) recognizing
areas of concern at an early stage, (ii) enabling prompt action to effectively contain the problems, and (iii) taking
the appropriate steps to sort out the problems and minimize any systemic effects. This guide anticipates the
conduct--including sanctions--of every financial sector regulator (BOJ, FSC, and JDIC) at the occurrence of
certain events, and includes provisions for all types of supervised financial institutions.

These amendments have corrected the shortcomings in the present legal framework that prevented Jamaica from
fully complying with the BCPs.        Hereafter, compliance with the principles would be accomplished through
progressive implementation of the new laws, including new regulations and supervisory procedures, which the BOJ
has started to implement. Although currently banks in Jamaica are not largely exposed to country and transfer risk
(BCP 11), the BOJ has issued to the industry a guidance document on such risks that is now in force. The industry
has effectively implemented this standard and this will make Jamaica compliant with this particular BCP.

Strengthening of BOJ's supervisory work. The BOJ has continued to intensify its effort in bolstering the framework
and methodologies utilized in the conduct of supervisory activities. These undertakings include the further
development of on- and off-site supervision methodologies to (i) include consolidated supervision, as well as the
supervision of operational and market risks; (ii) be prepared for taking over the supervision of credit unions; (iii)
enhance the reporting regime to ensure consistency with the recently adopted International Accounting Standards;
(iv) enhance the IT base to integrate off-site supervision with financial forecasting and better anticipate--thus be
prepare    to  deal   with--systemic     weakness.    The    BOJ   has   also   expanded     its menu   of   training
programs--independently or in collaboration with other institutions, such as CEMLA, the Bank of England, and
the Federal Reserve--which include seminars on financial markets, risk control, and market risk analysis. In
addition, the BOJ has incorporated anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist finance in its regular on-site work and
is expected to shortly amend the Anti-Money Laundering Guidelines for the Financial Sector to incorporate the
new legal requirements. Also, the BOJ chairs a Financial Crimes Legislative Task Force, responsible for making
proposals for the rapid amendments or enactment of new legislation.

As discussed above, a Financial Regulatory Council has been formed to improve the coordination among
supervisors of different type financial institutions and it has been meeting regularly (six times in 2002). The FRC
facilitates sharing of information and aids in the process of harmonization of important regulations (risk-based
capital adequacy, reporting requirements, reserve requirements, crisis-intervention policies) to reduce the
possibility of regulatory arbitrage. Amendments to relevant laws to permit information exchange between
supervisors have been approved by the Parliament.

The BOJ is committed to continue to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework. Apart from the
proposed regulations mentioned above, progress is being made in updating the current on-site examination policy



                                                         - 12 -

and on-site manuals to streamline the existing examination procedures and promoting market discipline.

With all the changes in banking laws and regulations introduced since the crisis, there is an acute need for
consolidation and harmonization of the various pieces of legislation governing the deposit-taking system,
amendments, and regulations so as to remove material inconsistencies, which now exist. Such consolidation would
provide a clearer and cleaner framework for future operations of the banking sector. BOJ has already developed
guidelines on minimum policies and procedures that it expects licensed institutions to comply with. These have
been formulated into regulations on "Standards of Best Practice".

Strengthening non-banking supervision. The second loan also supported several actions taken by the Government
after the approval of the first loan to further strengthen the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework for the
non-bank financial institution sector.

The new Insurance Act was enacted. The insurance regulations and the actuarial regulations that followed the
Insurance Act completed the legal framework for insurance supervision, which is entrusted to the FSC. The FSC
has also issued several guidelines to the industry on corporate management, investment management, audit
committee, related parties, reporting requirements, etc. The FSC is in the process of enhancing its internal capacity
in terms of on and off-site supervision of insurance companies. The FSC is also implementing securities
regulations in areas such as capital adequacy, custody of securities, payment and settlements system, and so on.
Other regulations for the securities sector now under preparation include mutual funds and collective investment
schemes, credit restrictions, and corporate governance. The FSC is also in the process of enhancing its supervisory
capacity over all licensees under the "Examinations Project." The FSC is expected to be self-financed by end-2003.
A Draft Pension Act ­containing the legal framework for pension schemes-- is expected to be shortly submitted by
the Minister of Finance and Planning to Parliament.

Implementation of the Government's Debt Management Strategy

The Government has satisfactorily implemented its strategy to convert all outstanding FINSAC obligations with
private financial institutions into Government paper and to service them in cash. (The Government also reached
agreement with the BOJ regarding FINSAC debt held at the BOJ. Government bonds have replaced FINSAC
paper, although interest on this debt is still being accrued. Restructuring of FINSAC debt at the BOJ was subject to
some delays, as discussed in the ICR of the first loan as well as the President's Report of the second loan). This
has been the cornerstone of Government efforts to revitalize the financial system and enable it to have the
necessary liquidity to resume lending to the private sector. However, the overall level of Government debt has
continued to climb substantially, despite significant fiscal efforts.

In August 2000, prior to the approval of the Bank's first loan, the ratio of debt/GDP was estimated at 131.2 percent
of GDP. The first SMP projected that this would decline to about 115 percent of GDP by March 2001 (largely due
to actions taken by the Government that were supported by the Bank's first loan), 107 percent by March 2002, and
to about 95 percent by March 2005 under the base case scenario. Under the first loan, the Government committed
to the Bank to ensure that overall public debt in Jamaican dollar terms would be no higher than it was in August
2000. Subsequently, due to a variety of reasons more fully explained in the reviews of the Fund's SMPs as well as
the ICR for the first loan, this commitment of the Government was not implemented and the actual debt/GDP ratio
as of March 31, 2001 was 137 percent of GDP. The first SMP ­ revised in mid-2001 ­ projected that from this
level of 137 percent of GDP, the debt to GDP ratio would decline to about 127 percent of GDP by March 2002 ­
mainly due to the large primary surplus to be generated by the Government. As of March 2002, the actual
debt/GDP ratio was about 130 percent. In its second SMP ­ approved in October 2002, the Fund's projections were
that the debt/GDP ratio would decline to about 125 percent of GDP by March 2003. As mentioned above, the
actual situation as of March 2003 is that the debt/GDP ratio is about 150 percent. While both Bank and Fund
documents have repeatedly qualified the debt projections with substantial discussions on risks to the projections, it
is clear that in the case of the evolution of the overall Government debt, many of these risks have been realized.

Since 1998/99, debt-financing activities of the Government have been guided by its medium-term Debt
Management Strategy. The key objective of debt management has been modified to broaden the focus from



                                                          - 13 -

minimizing borrowing costs to include risk management. The Government's recent debt management strategy ­
which is likely to remain in place for the coming fiscal year - has sought to maintain a prudent debt structure,
further diversify the debt portfolio, increase reliance on market-determined instruments for domestic debt issuance,
promote and build a liquid and efficient market for government securities, and increase the transparency and
predictability of primary market debt issuance. To this end, the Government has been attempting to increase the
share of loans at fixed rates and extend the maturity structure of its loans. During the 2002/03 fiscal year the
Government continued to increase the fixed rate portion of the debt portfolio with about 48.4% of the outstanding
domestic debt issued at fixed rates as of March 2003 compared to 43.2% as of March 2002. The Government has
also attempted to further extend the maturity profile of the domestic debt to include securities with 20- to 30-year
maturities. In order to mitigate the risk of currency depreciation that might concern domestic investors, the
government has been increasingly offering US$-indexed local securities. Such securities currently form about 12
percent of total domestic debt. While such securities are more attractive to investors, it is clear that such securities
expose the Government to greater risks in its overall debt management. The debt portfolio was further diversified
in terms of the range of maturities, and the type and geographic distribution of investors. The Government
continued to maintain a presence in the international capital markets.


The Government has re-emphasized in its publicly stated Debt Management Strategy that "despite the challenges,
the Government has and will continue to service its debt obligations in accordance with Section 116 of the
Constitution which stipulates that all loans (both external and domestic) represent a statutory charge on the
revenues and assets of the country" ("Debt Management Strategy FY 2003/04", Paper of the Ministry of Finance
No. 18/03).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the loan is high, particularly considering the far-reaching changes
achieved in the regulatory and supervisory framework that resulted in a strengthened capability of the BOJ to
regulate, supervise, and intervene supervised financial institutions, while the BOJ and the Government have taken
steps to address weakness identified by the assessments of the Basle Core Principles. With the implementation of
reform efforts, Jamaican financial sector regulation and supervision has moved more towards international best
practice. In addition, the FSC started to function as the new integrated regulator and supervisor for non-bank
institutions (insurance, securities, and pensions) and its operational capacity is being strengthened, as discussed
above. The recently established Financial Regulatory Council together with the BOJ and the FSC are harmonizing
regulation and supervision, as part of the Government's strategy to reduce future opportunities for regulatory
arbitrage (which had contributed to the crisis). These institutional reforms, along with the sale of all intervened
financial institutions have improved the environment for renewed bank lending through a more competitive,
stronger, and liquid financial sector. Thus the financial sector is now in a position to support enhanced economic
growth.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Coordination with other IFIs- Strong coordination efforts with the IMF and the IDB has been a hallmark of the
Bank's overall program of assistance to Jamaica's financial sector. It has ensured a coherent approach to support
the Government's efforts in achieving its BRDP goals. The Bank actively participated in the IMF Article IV and
SMP assessment missions. Throughout the process of preparation and supervision of the two loans, the Bank was
consistently more conservative in its assessment of the evolution of key macroeconomic variables. These views
were incorporated into the Fund's SMPs and the Bank's CAS, along with assessments of monetary and fiscal
policies required to achieve sustainability under more difficult scenarios. Unfortunately, and as discussed in greater




                                                         - 14 -

detail in Section 6 below, even these more conservative assumptions proved to be more optimistic than the actual
macroeconomic situation faced by the Government ex-post. There was strong coordination with the IDB in the
preparation of their parallel financial sector loan, and as a result, the process moved at a faster pace and the
Government was able to gain access to a larger pool of funds to address its liquidity needs. The IDB loan approved
in September 2000 had two tranches of US$75 million each, with the first tranche (comparable to the Bank's first
loan) disbursed shortly thereafter. In response to the emergency situation faced by the Government after the events
of September 11, 2001, the Bank provided Jamaica with emergency assistance (not related to actions in the
financial sector) of US$ 75 million. The IDB, however, chose to change the original number of tranches of its
financial sector operation from two to three. It disbursed a second tranche for US$40 million in March 2002
against compliance with roughly half the outstanding conditions, while the third tranche of US$35 million was
disbursed in November, 2002. The CDB has approved a two-tranche loan for US$25 million in October 2000 and
similarly split its second tranche into two components, both of which have been disbursed. The actions supported
by the IDB and CDB loans were consistent with and complementary to those being supported by the Bank.

Macroeconomic shocks- As mentioned above, the main risk facing the program is the possibility of
macroeconomic instability. Unforeseen circumstances such as September 11, 2001 events in the US, or even less
costly events such as the violence in July 2001, or the passing of Hurricane Michelle through Jamaica are largely
outside the Government's control but have had significant adverse macroeconomic impacts. Such events have
added to the fiscal pressures faced by the Government. Indeed, as in any banking sector operation, there is the
threat that global economic instability and/or recession in the US could have negative implications for the
Government's overall BRDP. This is particularly true in Jamaica because of the need to maintain strict fiscal policy
and the country's experience of low per capita GDP growth for much of the last 25 years. The Government has
been able to weather several risks of lesser magnitude with commendable discipline, with an overall primary
surplus of 12 percent of GDP in FY2000/01, despite a shortfall in revenues. The revised SMP targets took into
account these shocks and entailed tighter measures to which the Government expressed its commitment. However,
more recent macroeconomic developments indicate that the high level of debt and debt service significantly limits
the degrees of freedom available to the Government to respond to external shocks while continuing to service its
debt. A more detailed discussion of macroeconomic risks facing the program is provided in Section 6 below.

Adequacy of Bank resources in assisting in crisis resolution: The overall cost of the financial crisis in Jamaica
was of the order of about US$ 3 billion. The Bank's two loans provided a total amount of US$ 150 million ­ about
5 percent of the cost of the crisis. The Bank's loans assisted the Government in restructuring some of its debt with
financial institutions and assisted in replacing high cost domestic currency debt with relatively lower cost, long
term, foreign currency debt. The Bank's own Quality Assurance Group (QAG) ­ in its assessment of the Bank's
first loan in support of the BRDP - has questioned the adequacy of Bank support and pointed out that "...financing
made available by the Bank was limited relative to the large need for funds by the country..", while expressing
concern about the sustainability of the first loan. While this can be treated as a factor affecting the outcome of the
Bank's loans, the decision to provide this extent of support was taken in light of Government requests, the Bank's
assessment of the riskiness of the two operations, and the signaling effect that the loans, as well as Government
actions supported by them, would have in bringing the financial sector back to health. It is also unclear how much
larger support could have been provided by the Bank ­ especially in the absence of a Government request to the
Fund for financial support.

Implications for Bank operations under an SMP vis-à-vis a disbursing Fund Program. The Bank had, very
early on in its involvement with the Jamaican financial sector in 2000, suggested that the Government consider
approaching the Fund for financial assistance. The Government repeatedly made it clear to the Bank that it would
not do so since Jamaica was not faced with a balance of payments problem, which might require Fund assistance.
Given the historical relationship between Jamaica and the Fund as well as within the context of an election year in
Jamaica in 2002, political compulsions could also have been a driving force behind the Government's decision not
to approach the Fund. The two loans of the Bank were therefore made under the aegis of two Fund SMPs in which
the Government outlined its overall macroeconomic programs. These programs, while subject to risks clearly
identified by the Bank and the Fund, were broadly considered acceptable by the Bank as a basis for Bank loans.
One question that can be raised ­ especially if the financial sector faces difficulties due to the deteriorating




                                                        - 15 -

macroeconomic situation ­ is whether the likelihood of the sustainability of the achievements under the Bank's
loans would have been higher had the Government obtained access to a larger pool of funds by entering into a
disbursing Fund program. Access to financial resources from the IMF could have had a larger impact in
restructuring the Government's debt and thereby helped to potentially reduce the degree of fiscal stress currently
faced by the Government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Despite the likely risks to the financial sector in the future arising, the outstanding commitment of the Government
in implementing its BRDP has been crucial for the success of the two Bank loans. The Government publicized the
two SMPs that it had entered into with the Fund and stressed the Government's commitment to structural
benchmarks that were also included in its macroeconomic program presented to Parliament during 2000-02. This
provided a positive signal both to the domestic and foreign markets that the Government had decided to endure
tight discipline to achieve the final resolution of the crisis, despite its large costs. In addition, by divesting all
major intervened financial institutions to foreign investors, the Government brought into the country fresh
capital, technology, capacity, and increased competition that would help increase lending and thus enable
the financial sector to contribute to greater economic growth. The closure of FINSAC's operations also
signaled to the market that a new era had begun in the financial sector ­ with the end of the financial crisis ­ and
thereby contributed to improved market confidence. While there were some delays in some of the Government's
commitments that formed part of the first loan, these were satisfactorily addressed prior to the approval of the
second loan and there were no such delays in the second loan. All actions that were subject to Government control
were satisfactorily completed prior to the Board consideration of the second BRDP loan.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
FINSAC (under the supervision of the MOF, the main implementing agency), exhibited a large degree of
cooperation and expertise both in the preparation of the loan as in undertaking its duties in the implementation of
the program. FINSAC's management, in coordination with the Government, carefully designed its strategy to
dispose of both intervened financial institutions as well as FINSAC's portfolio of NPLs and other assets.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the achievements under the loan is Likely, but subject to high risks.

The ICR for the Bank's first loan in support of the Government's BRDP rated as "Likely" the sustainability of the
achievements based on the actions taken by the Government, its commitment to further the reform process, and the
then prevailing macroeconomic scenario. The rating was qualified by noting that the program was exposed to
significant risks ­ one of the major ones being the risk of macroeconomic volatility and fiscal stress. Rating the
sustainability of the second loan, in the context of substantial achievements in financial sector reform but in a
difficult macroeconomic and fiscal scenario is a more complex exercise.

Viewed purely from the perspective of reforms in the financial sector, improvements in the regulatory and
supervisory environment, and steps taken toward creating an environment in which the financial sector is able to
contribute to economic growth, the achievements under the loan have significantly increased the resilience of the
financial system to endure shocks and are difficult to reverse. As discussed above, all major intervened financial
institutions have been sold to foreign investors, the regulatory framework and on-the-ground supervision has been
significantly strengthened ­ both in the banking and the non-banking sector ­ and financial institutions provided
with liquidity through restructuring of public debt at the banks in order to enable them to undertake prudent
lending to support economic growth. The Government's financial sector reform strategy provides a signal to the
financial sector that a new framework is in place with stricter and better rules of the game, enforced in a timelier
manner. These actions also lay the ground for a healthier financial system that exhibits enhanced competition with




                                                          - 16 -

the entrance of international players.

However, underlying these achievements is substantial fragility engendered by the fact that a large fraction
of financial institution asset portfolios still consist of Government bonds, albeit with a reduced share. As
long as the Government continues to satisfactorily service its public debt ­ the achievements under the two BRDP
loans are likely to be sustained. However, if the Government faces difficulty in servicing its debt the quality of
financial institution asset portfolios will almost certainly rapidly erode, thereby weakening the financial sector.
Macroeconomic and fiscal difficulties could therefore undermine the achievements under the loans and the
sustainability of the reforms is therefore not necessarily assured.

The Government has not been able to contain its debt/GDP ratio within the parameters as laid out in the SMPs or
in the Bank's CAS. It has also been unable to sustain the high primary surpluses that were necessary in order to
ensure that this ratio was put on a declining path. The debt to GDP ratio which had remained relatively stable at
about 130% during the two years 2000-02, has risen again since the last quarter of 2002 largely due to a rising
fiscal deficit and depreciation of the exchange rate to reach about 150 percent of GDP by March 2003 (about 90
percent of GDP domestic, and about 60 percent of GDP external debt), one of the highest ratios in the world.
Overall GDP growth ­ which has been very low or negative over much of the last twenty-five years ­ has recently
shown signs of recovery but is hovering at a very low level of about 1% per year. All this has meant that
short-term risks to the economy have risen substantially, access to external markets has deteriorated with recent
downgrades by credit rating agencies, and the exchange rate has come under pressure in 2003.

Reaching fiscal and debt sustainability are critical to a return to sustained growth, but the Bank's recent Country
Economic Memorandum has estimated that primary surpluses of more than 10 percent of GDP are needed just to
sustain the current, high debt to GDP ratio of 150 percent. This is the case even under optimistic scenarios for
growth and interest rates (for example, growth of 2 percent, and real interest of 9 percent). In this context, it is
worth noting that the Government in June 2003 floated 2 and 5 year domestic bonds at about 34 percent (implying
a real rate of about 25 percent). More politically sustainable levels of the debt-stabilizing primary surplus (6-7
percent of GDP) would demand a reduction in the debt by about 50 percentage points of GDP. It is clear that the
Government faces a challenging time ahead as it tries to come up with options to improve the debt dynamics.

In this context, an appropriate rating for the sustainability of the achievements under the second loan would
be "Uncertain". However, the Bank does not provide for such a category in its rating system, therefore, after
extensive internal debate, a decision has been made to go with the latter rating for the following reasons, all
of which have been discussed above. First, all actions agreed upon under the loan were satisfactorily
implemented prior to Board consideration of the loan. Second, the loan supported Government actions that
have already had significant achievements in restructuring and strengthening the financial sector. Third,
historically, Jamaica has never defaulted on its debt thus far. As stated above, the Government maintains
that it will continue to satisfactorily service all of its debt obligations. Despite the difficult macroeconomic
situation faced by the Government, there is the possibility that the Government could succeed in averting a
fiscal crisis. Fourth, the financial sector is far better placed to handle macroeconomic stresses and contribute
to private sector - led growth as a result of Government actions supported by the Bank loans than it was
prior to these actions. Therefore, if a restructuring of the debt were to become necessary, the banking system
is now better placed to be a part of the solution and to constructively contribute to any orderly debt
restructuring efforts. The actions taken by the Government, supported to the Bank's loans have therefore
been successful in bringing the Jamaican financial system to this stage after the crisis in the mid-1990s. With
this rationale, the sustainability of the achievements under the loan is rated "Likely". However, based on the
discussion of the macroeconomic risks above, there is clear need to be aware that this rating should be
accompanied by a strong qualification that the sustainability is subject to high risks. Future macroeconomic
difficulties could endanger the achievements under the loan.

It is interesting to note that other than the risk of macroeconomic volatility, many of the other risks identified by
the Bank during the preparation of the loans have not materialized. In large part, this has been due to the
significant commitment of the Government to the reform process. There were risks that some of the larger




                                                         - 17 -

financial institutions may not be disposed of in a timely manner or that the Government would continue to hold the
portfolio of NPLs and other assets that it had acquired in the intervention process ­ risks which have been realized
in other countries that faced financial crises. It is to the substantial credit of the Government that neither of these
risks have materialized. There were also risks that the Government might not be able to continue the necessary
institutional strengthening in order to satisfactorily implement some of the new legislation and regulations put in
place. Once again, the Government showed a large degree of commitment to move the institutions responsible for
the oversight of the financial sector towards international best practice. The risk of social disturbances ­ due to the
tight fiscal measures in place ­ has not yet been realized and the Government seems committed to taking actions
necessary to minimize this risk. Finally, the risk that FIS may not have as much commitment from the Government
as did FINSAC has also not been realized. It is clear that these actions provide a degree of confidence regarding
the commitment of the Government and its willingness to find alternatives to deal with risks as they arise.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the implementation of the second phase of the BRDP was Satisfactory. The Bank continued
its close involvement and dialogue with the Government initiated during the preparation of the first loan. One of
the most important aspects of Bank performance was the continuity that it maintained in the core team undertaking
the lending operation. The Government appreciated the fact that the Bank had been highly responsive to its
requests to put in place a highly capable team and maintain its continuity until the end of the two-loan process. The
excellent professional rapport that had been developed by the Bank team during the processing of the first loan
made things significantly easier by the time of the second loan. Both sides were well aware of each other as well as
the situation and this made the client-Bank relationship that much smoother. The Bank team as well as the
Government agreed upon a set of clearly identified actions to be taken before Board consideration of the second
loan. Bank staff also played a key role in bringing to closure the issue of FINSAC debt at the Bank of Jamaica ­ an
issue that had been outstanding despite Government commitments in the first loan. In this process, Bank staff
played the role of an independent third party mediating in a difficult situation between the Central Bank and the
Ministry of Finance.

7.2 Supervision:
Given the structure of the second loan as a single-tranche adjustment operation in which the agreed policy actions
were implemented prior to Board presentation, there was limited scope for further supervision. However, the Bank
has remained engaged with the authorities in following up implemented actions and ensuring effectiveness of
commitments. The Bank continued to monitor progress in the financial sector through its work for the preparation
of this ICR as well as during the preparation of the Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 26088-JM).
Given the recent macroeconomic volatility being faced in by Jamaica, the Government has also kept its dialog
ongoing with the Bank and other IFIs through visits of senior officials including the Minister of Finance to
Washington. The Bank's performance in the supervision process has been Satisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank's performance has been Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in the identification and preparation of the project was Satisfactory. The Bank had extensive
interaction with the main institutions involved (MOF, FINSAC, BOJ, FSC) throughout the process, which reflected
the high degree of ownership of the program. The counterpart had selected an exceptionally qualified core team
with MOF in the lead, which had developed and maintained a coordinated inter-institutional reform, bank



                                                          - 18 -

resolution and debt management program. The Government maintained an exceptional degree of stability in its
high quality reform team throughout the two loans. Combined with an equal degree of stability of the Bank's own
project team as well as the Government's appreciation of the quality of the Bank team, the environment for project
design, preparation, and implementation was conducive to a successful outcome.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The implementation performance of the borrower is Satisfactory. From the financial sector point of view, the
Government took all the actions supported by this loan prior to Board presentation. After effectiveness of the loan,
the Government has, thus far, not "back tracked" on any aspect of the reform of the financial sector. However, the
major issue, as highlighted throughout the document, remains that of satisfactory debt management and
macroeconomic performance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
While FINSAC was the Implementing Agency (under the supervision of the MOF, the main implementing agency)
as far as the financial sector restructuring was concerned, the Bank interacted extensively with the MOF and the
BOJ on other aspects of the loan. The performance of all agencies was Satisfactory. Adequate access to officials,
information, and data were provided at all the stages of the loan preparation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance was Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The two loans of the Bank in support of the BRDP present an interesting, though complex, set of lessons. These
loans were made in a context where all agreed upon actions were completed prior to Board consideration of the
loan thereby achieving the objectives set out for the reform of the financial sector even prior to Board
consideration. Subsequent Government actions have not, thus far, in any way "back tracked" on the core of the
reforms. Yet, as stated above, the sustainability of the financial health of the privatized institutions (Banks and
Insurance Companies) remains open to question ­ mainly due to macroeconomic uncertainties facing the country
and their likely adverse impact on the financial sector. The lessons learned therefore, span the spectrum from the
positive ­ where client commitment, choice of appropriate lending instrument, and close collaboration among the
IFIs led to strong positive outcomes for the country ­ to the more circumspect and sobering that often Bank
operations face country risks that are easier to identify than to mitigate within the context of sector adjustment
loans and when some of these risks do materialize, they can have a substantial adverse impact even where the
underlying reform effort is strong.

i) Importance of Client commitment to reform: The successful implementation of both phases of the
Government's BRDP followed from a strong ownership of the program and commendable degree of commitment.
Jamaica clearly spelled out the components of its financial sector strategy early on to its internal and external
constituencies. It also published the two SMPs that it had entered into with the Fund. While there were some
delays in the implementation of a few commitments during the first loan, these were sorted out to the satisfaction
of the Bank prior to the Board consideration of the second loan. In the second loan, the Government ensured that
there were no slippages on reform actions in the financial sector. As far as debt management issues were
concerned, there were slippages from the agreements in the first loan. However, these were largely explained and
satisfactorily incorporated into a new SMP with the Fund. The new SMP also endorsed the Government's proposed
overall macroeconomic program ­ an integral component of which were efforts at prudent debt management going
forward. The Government's cooperation with the Bank was excellent as the Government clearly saw ­ and
repeatedly noted ­ the genuine commitment of the Bank team to work with the Government in identifying feasible
policy options for dealing with the aftermath of the financial crisis.      This joint effort led to a satisfactory
implementation experience, despite the program being subject to major risks. This high level of commitment and
ownership of the Government made it more feasible for the Bank to provide support, particularly since the cost of
not supporting the Government's reform efforts was deemed unacceptably high.

ii) Importance of selecting an appropriate lending instrument: The experience of both loans clearly vindicated



                                                       - 19 -

the choice of two single-tranche programmatic loans over a more traditional single-loan two-tranche approach.
Single tranche loans provided greater flexibility to both the Government and the Bank in designing loans with
achievable objectives taking into account ground realities as they developed. The design of the second loan
assumed special significance in the face of large external shocks faced by the Government in the intervening period
between the two loans ­ including the impact of the September 11, 2001 events in the US. It was only because the
loans were designed as single tranche loans that the impact of such large external shocks could be incorporated
satisfactorily into loan design with no adverse reputational impact for the Borrower or the Bank.               The
single-tranche approach also provided the Bank with leverage to work with the Government to arrive at
satisfactory resolutions of some outstanding issues of the first loan. The choice of instrument also enabled lessons
from past Bank experience with Jamaica as well as recent experience in other countries to be taken into account.
Through this approach, the Bank reduced the risk of delay and failure in the achievement of the program's
medium term aims by avoiding locking the client early on into an overly ambitious, politically sensitive, and risky
agenda with excessive conditionality.

iii) Importance of close collaboration with other IFIs and with the country staff: A critical learning from both
BRDP loans is the importance of close collaboration among IFIs ­ especially in the dysfunctional phasing of the
reforms programs where risks were clearly high. The Bank gained from the sectoral perspectives of the IDB and
the macro views of the IMF, while in turn both these institutions benefited from the Bank's strengths and
knowledge in restructuring of banking sectors as well as its often more conservative views on evolution of key
macroeconomic variables. Within the Bank, the sector unit (SMU) staff worked very closely with the country unit
(CMU) staff and this collaboration was crucial for the success of the loan.

(iv) Importance of designing adjustment programs with a clear identification of key risks. Both Bank loans in
support of the Government's BRDP clearly identified macroeconomic vulnerability as a key risk facing the
sustainability of the reforms implemented under the loans. They also clearly identified that it was not possible for
the programs to incorporate mitigation measures for all these risks into the loan design. The key lesson from this
experience is that the argument for providing assistance to the reform process in a country needs to be predicated
on a clear assessment of the substantial nature of the reforms and their likely impact while clearly recognizing the
risks. The presence of risks is, by itself however, not an adequate argument against providing assistance. In many
situations, macro risks cannot necessarily be mitigated within the context of a sector adjustment loan. There is a
strong case for such operations in cases where the Government's agenda of reform is as substantial as was the case
in Jamaica. The Bank and the Government need to continue to work together in order to ensure that
macroeconomic volatility does not entirely undo the substantial achievements of the Government's BRDP.

(v) Difficulty of choices facing the Bank in sector adjustment operations. An important lesson from the two
loans in support of the BRDP made by the Bank is that the Bank is often called upon to make difficult choices in
some of its sector adjustment operations ­ which might, as stated in its assessment of the first loan by the QAG,
involve taking "a high-risk/high reward strategy." In the case of the two BRDP loans to Jamaica, it was clear
from the beginning that macroeconomic risks facing the sustainability of the program were high. These were
repeatedly highlighted in Bank documents relating to the two loans.           However, it was also felt that the
reputational costs of not assisting Jamaica ­ at a time when its Government was clearly committed to a
program of significant financial sector reforms - were also high. During the processing of the two loans, it was
clear that resolving the financial sector crisis satisfactorily was a necessary, though not sufficient, condition to
ensure resumption of economic growth in Jamaica. Resumption of economic growth was, in turn, a necessary
condition for managing the large public sector debt in a sustainable manner. If the incipient resumption of
economic growth continues, then the Government ­ along with its stringent fiscal stance - would be in a much
better position to manage the transition to a lower level of overall public debt in relation to GDP. But it was clear
that financial sector reforms could be potentially derailed by unexpected macroeconomic shocks as well as future
Government policy that might relax the fiscal stance. At the time of approval of the second loan, some of the large
macroeconomic shocks ­ especially the adverse impact of the events in the US of September 11, 2001 on the
Jamaican economy ­ had already occurred. However, the Government had shown a commendable degree of fiscal
restraint and provided confidence on its overall approach. This said, however, events since effectiveness, as
discussed above, raise concerns on the sustainability of the program. Therefore Bank experience during these



                                                        - 20 -

loans indicates the difficult choices facing the Bank. Ex-ante, it is often essential for the Bank to demonstrate its
support to a strong reform program. However, the strength of the reform program might not necessarily ensure
its sustainability ex-post.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BANK RESTRUCTURING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT LOAN

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

(Loan No. 7150-JM)

BACKGROUND

Following the financial sector crisis of the mid 1990s, the Government of Jamaica implemented measures to
resolve the crisis and to contain the adverse debt dynamics resulting from its intervention in the financial sector.
These initiatives included support from the World Bank, the IADB, and CDB. With the aid of the first World
Bank loan, under the Bank Restructuring & Debt Management Programme (BRDP), the Government was able to
successfully restructure all the intervened financial institutions and divest the majority of shares held by FINSAC.
Also, the bulk of assets owned by FINSAC has been sold and the remaining residual assets are in the process of
being disposed. Further, the Government was able to restructure and assume the FINSAC debt held by these
institutions and the Bank of Jamaica.

The broad set of macroeconomic and financial sector reforms that have been implemented resulted in the
considerable strengthening of the supervisory agencies of financial institutions. Consequently, the health of the
financial sector has been restored and the vulnerability of the sector to future shocks has been significantly reduced.


PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES

Continuing on the first Bank Restructuring & Debt Management Programme (BRDP) loan, the second loan was
used to support the second phase of the Government's BRDP. It focuses on completing the financial resolution of
the crisis, through reform of the financial sector and management of the debt burden and involves the following:


·        Sale of the entire equity in National Commercial Bank and Life of Jamaica to private investors;
·        Sale of the non-performing loan portfolio of FINSAC to a private party;
·        Disposal of a significant portion of the real estate asset portfolio owned by FINSAC;
·        Restructuring and management of the public debt arising from the resolution of the financial crisis,
servicing in cash all Government bonds that replaced FINSAC liabilities with the private sector;
·        Ensuring that FINSAC did not incur additional liabilities as stipulated in the Staff Monitored Programme
(SMP);
·        Closure of operations of the crisis management agency, FINSAC;
·        Taking the appropriate steps as set out the Memorandum of Understanding regarding the Bank of Jamaica
Losses;
·        Completing regulatory and supervisory reforms in the financial sector; and
·        Maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework consistent with policy objectives and programmes
outlined in the SMP.

BANK SUPPORT: A PROGRAMMATIC LENDING APPROACH
As characteristic of all World Bank projects in the 1990s, the project supported a centrally directed and demand
driven approach.

Identification & Preparation: The IMF's SMP provided a solid macroeconomic foundation for the project and clear
understanding of sub-components. The Government continued to consult with World Bank staff.




                                                         - 21 -

Appraisal: The Bank was involved in the appraisal process and suitable expertise was provided during
consultations. The appraisal and project design were sound and the implementation plan was explicit and
contained detailed performance indicators.
Supervision: The Bank's supervision was adequate. The team consulted and visited entities responsible for
executing various aspects of the programme and received progress reports on programme.

ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAMME OBJECTIVES

·        Divestment of institutions owned by FINSAC
     The Government made considerable progress with the divestment of FINSAC intervened financial
     institutions. In March 2002, FINSAC sold its entire shareholding of NCB to AIC Berkshire, a subsidiary of
     AIC Ltd. of Canada.

     The equity stakes in Life of Jamaica were sold to Barbados Mutual Assurance Society in December 2001.
·        Sale of FINSAC's portfolio of real estate and Non-performing Loans
     FINSAC also disposed the non-performing loan portfolio. The loan portfolio was sold to Jamaica
     Redevelopment Foundation a subsidiary of Beal Bank of Texas in January 2002. In line with the agreement,
     the services of Denis Joslin Ja. Inc. commenced management of the portfolio as at February 1, 2002.

     With respect to the real estate portfolio, as at July 2002, over 40% of all commercial properties and 90% of
     the residential properties have been sold. Since its inception, the cumulative divestment of assets amounted
     to approximately $14.96B. Arrangements have been made to have the Financial Institutions Services resolve
     residual issues to deal with real estate portfolio and asset disposal.

·        Closure of the crisis management entity, FINSAC
     As of June 30, 2002, FINSAC operations were officially closed. The company implemented a strategy in 2002
     which saw the responsibility for the divestment of the remaining real estate portfolio and all other residual
     activities being handed over to Financial Institutions Services Limited, acting as its agent.

·        Restructuring and management of the public debt arising from the resolution of the financial crisis,
servicing in cash all Government bonds that replaced FINSAC liabilities with the private sector
     The Government assumed all FINSAC liabilities outstanding as a part of its domestic debt and continued to
     make cash payments as agreed on remaining FINSAC debt held by the private sector. An acceptable plan
     was also proposed to service the debt to the Bank of Jamaica.

·        Maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework consistent with policy objectives and programmes
outlined in the SMP
     The Government continued to comply with macroeconomic policy guidelines as set out in the SMP. The
     International Monetary Fund carried out reviews of the programmes.

·        Completing regulatory and supervisory reforms in the financial sector
     In order to further reduce the vulnerability of the financial sector to the future crisis and to further strengthen
     the regulatory framework, the Government made additional efforts to consolidate the reforms in the financial
     sector. The reform initiatives included inter alia:
-        Amendments to the Banking, Financial Institutions Acts to provide the Bank of Jamaica with the
authority to intervene in deposit taking financial institutions, legal and administrative authority to assess penalties
and to enhance it's regulatory authority over complex groups were enacted in March 2002;
-        The enactment of the Insurance Act. This Act is in line with international best practices. Further, the
Insurance Regulations were approved by the Minister of Finance and subsequently gazetted;
-        The Regulatory Policy Council has been established, functioning and provides reports to the Minister;
-        The Bank of Jamaica has updated its Supervisory Ladder of Enforcement;
-        A Draft Bill to establish the legislative framework for credit bureau was prepared.;
-        The Financial Services Commission was established and is operational. It has also issued regulations and



                                                         - 22 -

continued to strengthen its supervisory capacity through training.

MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAMME
Despite minor delays in the legislative procedure, there were no significant factors that adversely affected the
second phase of the Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Programme.

PROGRAMME SUSTAINABILITY
Having successfully pursued the programme agreed with the Bank, the Government will take the necessary steps to
ensure that medium term economic programme gets back on track.               The Bank Restructuring and Debt
Management Programme has helped to strengthen the overall environment of the financial sector.              The
Government hopes to use this as a catalyst to restart economic growth and development in Jamaica.

BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance was satisfactory in all phases of the project.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The Government of Jamaica performance was also satisfactory.

ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME

The Government believes that the main objectives of the loans have been accomplished. The project has
contributed to the strengthening of the legislative framework and resolution of the crisis with the management of
FINSAC liabilities and the closure of FINSAC. The measures that have been implemented will help to restore the
stability of the financial sector and the macroeconomic framework.

KEY LESSONS LEARNED

The experience has taught us that a programme that is well designed and managed with significant input from the
borrower can be implemented satisfactorily.

(b) Cofinanciers:
 Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

None




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                 1
              Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Not applicable because this is a single
tranche adjustment operation in which all
actions were completed prior to Board
consideration.




Output Indicators:
                                                                 1
              Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Not applicable because this is a single
tranche adjustment operation in which all
actions were completed prior to Board
consideration.




1End of project




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable, because this is a single tranche adjustment operation in which all actions were completed
prior to Board consideration.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable because this is an adjustment operation




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               08/27/2001                1    Financial Economist
                                         4    Sr. Financial Economist,
                                              Financial Economist, Financial
                                              Sector Specialist, Lead Counsel
               02/11/2002                1    Financial Economist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               08/07/2002 -              1    Financial Economist
               08/12/2002                1    Sr. Financial Economist
                                         1    Legal Counsel


 Supervision
               05/30/2003 -                   Financial economist,
               06/04/2003
                                              Financial Sector Specialist

 ICR
               05/30/2003 -              1     Financial economist,
               06/04/2003
                                         1     Financial Sector Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              21.24                           28,871
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   38.32                         115,603
  Supervision
  ICR                                      3.13                           10,323
  Total                                   62.69                         154,798




                                               - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

President's Report no. P7397 JM, November 2, 2000.
President's Report no. P7527 JM, September 17, 2002
Jamaica Country Assistance Strategy, Report no. 21187, November 2, 2000.
Jamaica: Staff Report for the 1999 Article IV Consultation, IMF Staff Country Report no. 00/08, January 27,
2000, www.imf.org.
Jamaica: 2001 Article IV Consultation and Review of Staff-Monitored Program, IMF Country Report no. 01/83,
June 14, 2001, www.imf.org.
Jamaica ­ Letter of Intent ­ December 4, 2001 www.imf.org
Jamaica ­ Staff Monitored Program - Letter of Intent ­ Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies, July 25,
2002, www.imf.org.
Jamaica: Staff report for 2002 Article IV consultation and new Staff Monitored Program, IMF Country Report no.
02/197, September 11, 2002 www.imf.org.
Jamaica: Country Assistance Note, Report no. 19356.
Jamaica: Implementation Completion Report for Bank Restructuring & Debt Management Program Adjustment
Loan (FSLT-70360).
Jamaica: Country Economic Memorandum, Report no. 26088-JM. Jamaica-- The Road to Sustained Growth, June
2003.




                                                       - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions

Issue      Objective     ActionstakenbytheJamaicanGovernmentprior              Progress since effectiveness
                         toBoardpresentationofBRDPIIloan
Macro      Maintain  -      UntiltheexternalshocksofSeptember11,2001,the       TheGovernmenthasfacedslippageinits
stability  sound     Governmentcontinuedtomaintainasoundmacroeconomic          macroeconomictargets,especiallyrelatingtofiscal
           economic  frameworkconsistentwithpolicyobjectivesandprograms        deficits.Asmentionedabove,thedebt/GDPratiohas
           policy    outlinedinthe2000SMPanditsrevisions,2000CAS,and           alsogoneupsignificantlyintherecentpast,despite
           framework LetterofSectorPolicydatedOctober19th,2000whichformed      relative stability during 2000-02.
                     apartoffirstBRDPloan. Subsequenttotheeventsof
                     September11,2001,theGovernmententeredintoarevised
                     SMPwiththeIMF ­approvedinJuly2002.InitsLetterof
                     SectorDevelopmentPolicyforthesecondloan,the
                     Governmentcommittedtosatisfactorilyimplementingits
                     macroeconomicadjustmentprogramasoutlinedintherevised
                     SMP. TheIMF,initsrevisedSMP,aswellastheBank,inits
                     CASupdate,complimentedtheGovernmentonitscontinued
                     tightfiscalstancedespitesignificantpressuresduetoexternal
                     shocks.
                                                                               .




                                                      - 31 -

Reductionof  -       TheGovernmentundertookperiodicscheduledreviews  TheGovernmentundertookperiodicreviewsofthe
publicsector ofperformanceasagreedunderthe2000SMPandits              SMPduringtheperiodofpreparationand
debt         revisions. ThenewSMPapprovedinJuly2002,incorporated     implementationoftheBank'sloans.Itenteredintoa
             appropriatemeasurestoaddressthelargemacroeconomic       secondSMPwiththeFundcoveringtheperiod2002-
             shocksthattookplacesincethefirstSMP.                    03.SincetheexpiryofthisSMPinApril2003,the
                                                                     FundhasindicatedthatitwillnotbesupportingSMPs
                                                                     infuture.TheBankiscurrentlypreparingaCountry
                                                                     EconomicMemorandumforJamaicainwhichthe
                                                                     overallmacroeconomicsituationisbeingassessed.As
                                                                     mentionedabove,Jamaicaiscurrentlyfacingaperiod
                                                                     ofincreasedoverallmacroeconomicstress.

             Largelyduetoexternalshocksandtotheupwardrevisionof      TheobjectiveoftheGovernmenttoreduceitsdebt
             the2000/01debtdata,thereductionofpublicsectordebtin     stockhasnotbeenachieved.Publicsectordebthas
             Jamaicandollartermswasnotconsistentwiththebasecase      continuedtorisesignificantlyandiscurrentlyabout
             scenarioofthe2000SMP­acommitmentthatthe                 150percentofGDP.Interestrates,afterdeclining
             GovernmenthadmadeinthefirstBRDPloan.The                 initiallyduringthepreparationandimplementationof
             Governmentcommittedtoarevisedmacroeconomicscenario      bothBankloanshaverisenagain ­largelyduetothe
             reflectedintheSMPapprovedinJuly2002.Thisscenario        Government'seffortstodefendarapidlydepreciating
             anticipatedthatthestockofGovernmentdebttoGDPwould       exchangerate.Thecombinationofanincreasingstock
             remainflatatabout129percentduring2001/02to2002/03and    ofdebtandhighinterestrateshaveplacedmajor
             showadeclinethereafterduetoprimarysurplusesproposedto   strainsontheGovernment'sabilitytosatisfactorily
             begeneratedbytheGovernment.TheGovernmentcommitted       serviceitsdebt.Thisproblemhasbeenreflectedinthe
             tomeettheobjectiveofreducing itspublicsectordebtthrough recentdowngradesoftheJamaicansovereigncredit
             furtherexpenditurecuts,ifnecessary,initsLetterofSector  ratingbyinternationalratingagencies.Thisissue
             DevelopmentPolicyfortheSecondLoan.                      posesthesinglebiggestrisktothecontinued
                                                                     sustainabilityoftheachievementsunderthetwoBank
                                                                     loans.Alargeofcommercialbankassetportfoliosare
                                                                     composedofGovernmentdebt.IftheGovernment
                                                                     facesdifficultiesinservicingthisdebtinatimely
                                                                     manner,thequalityofbankassetportfolioswill
                                                                     almostcertainlyrapidlyerode,creatingproblemsfor
                                                                     theliquidityandsolvencyofthesector.

             -       Governmentexplicitlyassumed,aspartofitsdomestic ThereisnoFINSACdebtoutstandinginJamaica.All
             debt,allFINSACliabilitiesoutstandingasofMarch31,2001.   suchdebthasbeenconvertedintoGovernmentbonds.
             Asofthedateofapprovalofthesecondloan,ithadbeen          AsofthedateofthisICR,theGovernmenthas
             makingfullinterestpaymentsincashonallassumedliabilities continuedtoserviceallitsobligations ­including
             toprivatefinancialinstitutions                          thosetothefinancialsector­satisfactorily.However,
                                                                     asstatedabove,thereareincreasingfiscalpressures
                                                                     confrontingtheGovernmentanditisunclearifthese
                                                                     pressureswillleadtodifficultiesfortheGovernment
                                                                     incontinuingtosatisfactorilyservicingitsdebtin
                                                                     future.




                                            - 32 -

FINSAC  Reducedebt     -       FINSAC did not incur additional liabilities over and     FINSACceasedoperations in July 2002 ­ prior to the
        andpay         beyondthoseidentifiedinthe2000SMP,asrevisedin                    approval of the Bank's second loan. No additional
        interestin     December 2001.                                                   FINSAC liabilities have been incurred. This objective
        cashon                                                                          has been satisfactorily met.
        remaining
        stock of debt. -       Government used all funds from the first loan (Loan      TheGovernmentusedallfundsfromthesecondloan
                       No.7036-JM)toreduceGovernmentdebtheldbyprivate                   toreduceGovernmentdebtheld bytheprivate
                       financial institutions. It has committed to use funds from the   financial institutions.
                       proposed second loan for the same purpose.

                       -       InadditiontotherestructuringofFINSAC'sdebtheld           TheGovernmenthasredeemedJ$2.2billionofnon-
                       bytheBOJ (supported by the first loan), the Government has       interestbearingsecuritiesattheBOJ.TheBOJ'sfiscal
                       takenabroaderapproachtoimproveBOJ'sprofitability,as              year is January-December.TheGovernmenthas
                       reflectedintheMOUbetweentheMOFandtheBOJregarding                 providedtheBOJwithbondstomakeupBOJ'sloss
                       the resolution of BOJ losses, signed on September 9, 2002.       as of December2002.TheGovernmentalsoissued
                       The MOU provides that the Government:(i)hasreplacedJ$            fresh securities to the BOJ to cover interest costs on
                       8.3billioninadvancesandotherreceivablesfromthe                   existing bonds with the BOJ.
                       Government (below market securities related to previous BOJ
                       losses) with marketable securities, (ii) has committed to redeem
                       J$2.2 billion in non-interest earning securitiesduringFY
                       2002/03, and (iii) has committed to settle any losses sustained
                       by the BOJ in subsequent periods through the issuance of
                       Government securities. Interest accrued on the replacing
                       securities will be capitalized with the issuance of Government
                       securities until FY2007/08.

                       -       FINSAChasprovidedallproceedsfromrecoveriesof             FINSAC ceased operations prior to the approval of the
                       NPLsandnon-core assets, net of operating expenses, to the        second BRDP loan. Its remaining responsibilities were
                       Government. TheGovernmenthasusedthesefundstoservice              handed over to FIS.
                       its bonds replacing FINSAC liabilities.




                                                            - 33 -

Restructure    Restructure/ -       Government has sold its entire equity in NCB to a         TheGovernmentheldnomajoritystakesinany
banking        sell         private financial institution. This is the largest domestic bank  intervened financial institution prior to the approval of
sector         intervened   with a market share of 37 percent of total commercial bank        theBRDPIIloan.Managementanddisposalofafew
               banks.       assets.                                                           remaining minority stakes is managed by FIS. The
                                                                                              GovernmenthassincedivestedFINSAC'sminority
                                                                                              equity stakes of 26 percent in Island Life, exchanged
                                                                                              US$8.25 million of preferred shares in Victoria
                                                                                              Mutual Building Society (VMBS) for Government
                                                                                              bonds, and is proceeding with the divestment of stakes
                                                                                              of 26.5 percent in Dyoll Insurance Co. In addition,
                                                                                              progress has been made in legally closing down the
                                                                                              many subsidiaries of the financial institutions that
                                                                                              FINSAC had acquired.

                                                                                              TheBOJreportsthatNCBisperforming
                                                                                              satisfactorily, with high asset quality, increasing share
                                                                                              of lending to total assets, lower share ofGovernment
                                                                                              securities to total assets, and higher profitability. As of
                                                                                              December2002,NCBhasamarketshareof
                                                                                              commercial bank assets of 38 percent, similar to its
                                                                                              share in 2001.

Saleof          Sale of     -       (i) Government has sold 75 percent of FIS's commercial    AsofMay2003,theGovernmenthasalsosoldJ$3.9
FINSAC          non-core            realestateassetsadministeredbyFINSACand98                 billion in real estate and other assets.
non-core        assetsheld          percent of FIS's residential real estate assets
assets          by                  administered by FINSAC (acquired in the intervention
                FINSAC.             process). (ii)GovernmenthasclosedFINSAC
                                    operations as of June 30, 2002. It has transferred
                                    FINSAC's remaining asset administration and legal
                                    responsibilities to FIS and has provided the Bank with a
                                    satisfactory strategy for management, disposal, and
                                    winding down of these assets.




Divestmentof Divestmentof -        Governmenthassoldtoaprivatefinancialinstitution           AsofMay2003,FINSAC'stotalmonthlyrecoveries
FINSACNon- NPLsby          FINSAC'sentireNPLportfolio,whichwasacquiredinthe                  amountedtoaboutUS$27.3million(aboutJ$1.3billion.
performing    FINSAC.      interventionprocess.
loan portfolio

Insurance      Restructure/ -      GovernmenthassolditsentireequityinLOJtoa                  TheFSCreportstheLOJisperformingsatisfactorily,
Companies­     sell         privatefinancialinstitution. LOJisthelargestinsurance            reflectingthemajorrestructuringprocessundertaken
Lifeof         intervened   companyinthesystemwithabout30percentoftotalinsurance             throughitssale,assupportedbypreliminaryon-site
Jamaica        insurance    assets.                                                          supervisionresults.LOJisalsointheprocessof
               companies.                                                                    mergerwithIslandLife. AsofDecember2002,LOJ
                                                                                             hasamarketshareoftotallifeinsuranceassetsof16
                                                                                             percent,similartoitssharein2002. Oncethemerger
                                                                                             iscompleted,itsmarketsharecouldincreaseto22
                                                                                             percent(includingthecurrentmarketshareofIsland
                                                                                             Life).




                                                                - 34 -

Legal/      Continue      -       LegislationhasbeenpassedbytheGovernment's         TheGovernmenthasbegundraftinganomnibuslaw
regulatory/ strengthening legislatureprovidingBOJgreaterindependenceandbroader      thatwouldtakeintoallthechangestotheexisting
supervisory BOJ's         interventionpowersby:                                     legislationthathavebeeninthepastfewyearsand
framework   supervisory   ·       GrantingBOJthepowersoftemporarymanagementof       helpinharmonizingthelegislativeframeworkacross
forthe      and           deposittakingfinancialinstitutions.                       thefinancialsector.TheBOJcontinuestooperate
banking     enforcement   ·       GrantingtheBOJthelegalandadministrativepowers     satisfactorilyinitssupervisoryroleforthefinancial
sector      capabilities  toimposepenaltiesincasesofcertaintechnicalbreachesof      sectorandiscontinuingitsinstitutionalstrengthening
            toensuresafe  statutebyfinancialinstitutions.                           activities.
            andsound      ·       Upgradingthescheduleoffinesandpenaltiesfornon-
            banksin       compliancebyfinancialinstitutions.
            Jamaica.      ·       TransferringallthesupervisorypowersoftheMinister
            Ensure       ofFinanceandPlanningtotheBOJ,exceptthepowerstogrant
            consolidated andrevokebanklicensesandthepowertovestsharesof
            supervision  institutions.
            and          ·        GrantingBOJ(i)extendedjurisdictionovernon-
            supervision  bankingfinancialinstitutionsthatarepartofabankinggroup,
            ofmarket     and(ii)thepowertorequiretherestructuringofafinancial
            risk.        group.

                         -        TheFinancialRegulatoryCouncil,consistingof        TheFRChasbeenmeetingregularly(sixtimesduring

                         representativesoftheBankofJamaica,theFSC,theMOFand         2002),thusfacilitatingcoordinationandinformation

                         theJamaicaDepositInsuranceCorporationwasformally           sharingamongregulatorsaswellasharmonizationof

                         establishedinanditisfunctioningsatisfactorily,forpurposes  prudentialregulationstoreducethepossibilityof

                         ofcoordinatingthesupervisionoffinancialinstitutions. Ithas regulatoryarbitrage.

                         alsoprovidedreportstotheMinisterofFinanceandPlanning
                         ontechnicalguidanceprovidedtotherespectiveregulatory
                         bodies.

                         -        TheBOJcompletedanindependentassessmentofBCP       TheBOJhascontinuedtocarryouttraining,withthe

                         in2001findingmostofthe25principlesfullyorlargely           helpofinternationalregulatorybodies.

                         compliant. Subsequently,ithasadoptedaplanandbegun
                         undertakingspecifictraininginitiativesandcapacitybuilding
                         measuresthereunderinsupervisionandregulationofmarket
                         riskexposureofsupervisedentitiestowardsachievingfull
                         compliancewiththeBCP.

                         -        Legislationhasbeenpassedtoincludeprovisions       TheBOJhasensuredthatcomingregulations(chiefly,

                         dealingwithconsolidatedsupervisionandmarketrisk.           capitaladequacyandriskclassificationand

                         Guidelinesforriskmanagement,inclusiveofmarketrisks,        provisioning)arebeingcompliedwithinadvancebay

                         havebeendraftedbyBOJ. Regulationstoensurecapital           banks.

                         adequacy(reflectingtheamendmentsabove)havebeen
                         drafted,andtheyarebeingimplementedbythemarket,and
                         theywillshortlybesignedintolaw. ThoseRegulationswillbe
                         subjecttofurtheramendmenttotakeintoconsiderationmarket
                         risksnotcurrentlycovered.

                         -        BOJ,byamendmentstheretoin2001and2002,has          TheBOJ,alongwiththeotherfinancialsector

                         updateditsSupervisoryLadderofEnforcement".                 supervisorscontinuetoupdatetheladderof
                                                                                    enforcementaswarranted.


                         -        ABilloflawforthecreationofcreditbureaushasbeen    Thebillisexpectedtobeenactedduring2003.
                         draftedbytheGovernmentandsubmittedforpublic
                         consultationpriortoitspresentationtoParliament.




                                                           - 35 -

Legal/      Strengthen    -        FSChasbeenestablishedanditisfunctioning           TheFSCcontinuestooperatesatisfactorilyandisinthe
regulatory/ regulation    satisfactorily.                                            processofbuildingupitsinstitutionalcapacity.The
supervisory and                                                                      staffingoftheFSCislargelyinplaceandtraining
framework   supervision   -        ThenewInsuranceActhasbeenenactedanditisinline activitiesinrelevantareasarebeingundertaken.
forthenon-  ofnon-bank    withinternationalbestpractices,asdeterminedbytheBank.
banksector  financial
            institutions. -        FSChasissuedregulationsgoverningFSCactivitiesand TheFSCisintheprocessofenhancingitsinternal
                          hascontinuedstrengtheningitssupervisorycapacitythrough     capacityintermsofon-andoff-sitesupervisionof
                          trainingunderaplansatisfactorytotheBank.                   insurancecompanies.Theformerincludestrainingon
                                                                                     riskexaminationprocedures.

                          -        FSChastakenthefollowingstepstostrengthen           TheFSCisalsoimplementingSecuritiesRegulations
                          supervisionofnon-bankfinancialinstitutions:                 inareassuchascapitaladequacy,custodyof
                          ·        Hiredconsultantsforthedesignofsoftwareforfinancial securities,paymentandsettlementssystem,andsoon.
                          solvencyanalysis;                                           Otherregulationsforthesecuritiessectornowunder
                          ·        Designedtworisk-basedmodules(oneforgeneral         preparationincludemutualfundsandcollective
                          insurancesupervisionandtheotherforlifeinsurance             investmentschemes,creditrestrictions,andcorporate
                          supervision)andbeganundertakingon-sitesupervision.          governance.TheFSCisalsointheprocessof
                                                                                      enhancingitssupervisorycapacityoveralllicensees
                                                                                      underthe"ExaminationsProject."TheFSCis
                                                                                      expectedtobeself-financedbyend-2003.Adraft
                                                                                      PensionAct,containingthelegalframeworkfor
                                                                                      pensionschemes,willbeshortlysubmittedbythe
                                                                                      MinistertoCongress.

                          -        Governmenthascommittedtotakethefollowingactions TheFSChasissuedseveralguidelinestotheindustry
                          tofurtherstrengthentheinsurancesector'sregulatory           oncorporatemanagement,investmentmanagement,
                          framework:                                                  auditcommittee,relatedparties,reporting
                          ·        Issueregulationstoharmonizetherulesregarding       requirements,etc.
                          changesincontrol(acquisitions,transfer,andamalgamation)of
                          insuranceproviderswiththelicensingrequirementstherefor.
                          ·        Issueregulationstomonitormarketconductprinciples
                          andprotectionofpolicyholders' interests(fairtreatment).
                          ·        Introducenon-bindingconsultationwithotherboardsor
                          agenciesandindustryintheappointmentofatleastonemember
                          ofFSC'sBoard.
                          ·        Reviseregulationstobetterdefinestandards(i.e.,
                          internationalratings)forselectionofforeignre-insurers,
                          includingthecreationofaregistryofadmittedre-insurersthat
                          complywithsaidstandards.

                          -FSChasprovidedtheBankwithasatisfactorytime-bound
                          plantocompletetrainingofitssupervisorystaff.




                                                           - 36 -

- 37 -

