Document of
THE WORLD BANK
For Official Use Only
Report No. P7527-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
September 17, 2002
Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALRe
(as of July 31, 2002)
48.65 Jamaican Dollars = US$1.00
JAMAICAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACQNY_MS
BCP                        Basle Core Principles
BNS                        Bank of Nova Scotia
BOJ                        Bank of Jamaica (Jamaica's Central Bank)
BRDP                       Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Progam
CAN                        Country Assistance Note
CAR                        Capital Asset Ratio
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CAS PR                     Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report
FINSAC                     Financial Sector Adjustment Company Umited
FIS                        Financial Institutions Services
FSC                        Financial Services Conmmission
FY                         Fiscal Year
GAAP                       Generally Accepted Accounting Practices
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
IDB                        Inter-American Development Bank
IF!                        International Financial Institution
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
JDB                        Jamaican Development Bank
JDIC                       Jamaica Deposit Insurance Company
LAR                        Liquid Asset Ratio
LOJ                        Life of Jamaica
LRS                        Locally Registered Stock (Treasury bonds)
MOF                        Ministry of Finance & Planning
MOU                        Memorandum of Understanding
NCB                        National Commercial Bank
NIBJ                       National investment Bank of Jamaica
NPLs                       Non Performing Loans
OSI                        Office of the Superintendent of Insurance
PDL                        Past Due Loans
PIOJ                       Planning Institute of Jamaica
RBTT                       Royal Bank of Trinidad & Tobago
S&P                        Standard and Poor's
SC                         Securities Commission
SMP                        Staff Monitored Program
Vice President:            David de Ferranti (LCRVP)
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos (LCC3C)
Sector Director:           Danny Leipziger (LCSFP)
Task Team Leaders:         P.S. Srinivas and Yira Mascar6 (LCSFF)
Project Team: This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of: MessrsiMmes. Juan Ortfz (LCSFF);
Gregorio Impavido (PSD); Peter Kyle (LEGPS); Sanjay Kathuria (LCC3C); and Eduardo Brito (LEGOP). Cara
Zappala (LCSFF) provided research and logistical support. The team was led by P.S. Srinivas (Senior Financial
Economist, LCSFF) and Yira Mascar6 (Financial Economist, LCSFF) and worked under the overall guidance of
Fernando Montes-Negret (Sector Manager, LCSFF).
Peer Reviewers: James Hanson (OPD) and Hunt Howell (1DB)



JAMAICA
PROPOSED SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND RECENT PERFORMANCE                            .    ......................1
A.   The Context ......................................................................1
B.   Recent Economic Developments and Prospects ................................................................2
II.  THE JAMAICAN FINANCIAL SECTOR CRISIS ..............................................................5
A.   The Intervention Phase of FINSAC's Operations ..............................................................6
B.   The Rehabilitation Phase of FINSAC's Operations ...........................................................6
C.   Impact of the Financial Sector Intervention on the Public Debt ............... .........................7
III.   THE GOVERNMENT'S BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT
PROGRAM ......................................................................7
A.   The Government's Financial Sector Restructuring Strategy ..............................................8
B. The Government's Strategy to Strengthen Regulation and Supervision of the Financial
Sector ......................................................................             10
C.   Establishment of Credit Bureaus .....................................................................  15
D. The Government's Strategy to Manage Public Debt Arising from the Financial Sector
Crisis ......................................................................             16
E.   The Government's Strategy to Manage Overall Public Debt .......................................... 18
F.   Regulations against Money Laundering ............................... 21
IV.    EVALUATION OF THE FIRST BRDP ADJUSTMENT LOAN ...............                ................... 22
V.   BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..................              .......................................... 24
A.   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ............................................................  24
B.   Rationale for Continued Bank Adjustment Lending to the Financial Sector ................... 24
C.   BRDP's Links to Poverty Reduction ......................  ...................................... 25
D.   The Bank's Recent Emergency Assistance to Jamaica .................................................... 27
E.   Coordination with the IMF and the IDB ............................... ............................. 27
VI.    THE PROPOSED LOAN ............................................................        27
A.   Loan Objectives and Description .................    ........................................... 27
B.   Commitments under the Proposed Loan ................................ ............................ 28
C.   Disbursements, Records and Auditing ............................................................  29
D.   Impact, Benefits and Risks ............................................................  29
VII.   RECOMMENDATION ............................................................ 32
ANNEXES
I Matrix of Policy Actions .33
II    Letter of Sector Development Policy .45
IH     Status Report on the Liquidation of FINSAC .57
IV    Supervisory and Regulatory Reforms in the Jamaican Banking Sector .63
V     Overview of the Institutional Framework of Non-bank Financial Institutions in Jamaica . 71
VI    Overview of the Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for Non-bank Financial Institutions
in Jamaica .................                                                          81
VII Bank of Jamaica's Finances.93
VIII Status of Bank Group Operations .99
IX Jamaica at a Glance .101
X Key Economic Indicators .103
XI     Key Exposure Indicators ...............                                              105






JAMAICA
SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (BRDP II)
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROPOSED LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Jamaica
AMOUNT AND TERMS: US$75 million. The loan will be a fixed-spread US dollar loan
repayable in 16 years including 6 years of grace. The loan will
carry the Bank's standard terms on interest rates, front-end fees,
and commitment charges for fixed-spread loans.
DESCRIPTION:             The operation will support the second phase of the Government's
Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program (BRDP),
which includes:
Resolution of financial institutions. The Bank's first loan
supported the sale of one large commercial bank in which the
Government had a majority equity stake.  At the time, the
Government continued to have majority equity stakes in two other
financial institutions -Life of Jamaica, the largest insurance
company and, National Commercial Bank, the largest domestic
commercial bank in Jamaica. Since the first loan, the entire equity
stakes of the Government in both these institutions have been sold.
The proposed second loan supports the sale of these two financial
institutions.  Bank funds will be used to retire part of the
government bonds held by these financial institutions and it will
complement other sources of funds available to the Government
such as fiscal resources, proceeds from asset disposal, and loans
from other intemational financial institutions (IFIs).
Phase-out of the crisis management agency. FINSAC -the
Govemment's crisis management agency- which was established
in 1997, has completed all of its assigned operational functions and
has ceased operations as of July 2002. The proposed second loan
supports the operational closure of the crisis management agency
upon the successful completion of its responsibilities. FINSAC
intervened,  rehabilitated,  and  divested  several  financial
institutions. The Government no longer has majority equity stakes
in any intervened financial institution in Jamaica. FINSAC also
acquired a large portfolio of NPLs from intervened financial
institutions. It has since packaged and disposed of this entire
portfolio to private investors. The Government also acquired a
large portfolio of non-core assets (hotels, real estate, etc.) as part of
the intervention process. Most of these assets have been sold and
the Financial Institution Services (FIS, an institution established



prior to FINSAC) has been given the responsibilities for
management and disposal of remaining repossessed assets.
Management and disposal of minority Government stakes in the
remaining few financial institutions and completion of certain legal
formalities of the intervention process will also be undertaken by
FIS.
Restructuring and management of the public debt arising from
the resolution of the financial crisis. The Bank's first loan
supported the Government's actions for restructuring FINSAC's
liabilities and the conversion of all outstanding FINSAC liabilities
into negotiable government bonds, and servicing them in cash.
Although there have been some delays, the Government has
subsequently implemented all its commitments in this area. The
proposed second loan supports: (i) the Government's efforts to
continue servicing in cash all government bonds that replaced
FINSAC's liabilities with the private sector, and (ii) the
Government's actions to improve BOJ's profitability (beyond the
replacement of FINSAC debt supported under the first loan).
Regulatory and supervisory reforms in the financial sector. In
order to reduce the vulnerability of Jamaica's financial system to
future crises, the proposed second loan supports continuing efforts
by the Government to strengthen the legal, regulatory, and
supervisory environment of the financial sector. In the banking
sector, since the approval of the first Bank loan, the BOJ undertook
an independent assessment of the Basle Core Principles of bank
regulation and supervision. The BOJ and the Government have
also taken steps to address areas of weakness identified in the
independent assessment.  Necessary legislative measures have
been approved and capacity building at the BOJ is proceeding.
Significant strengthening of the legislative, regulatory, and
supervisory framework for the non-bank financial sector has been
undertaken since the approval of the first Bank loan. A new
Insurance Act - in line with international best practice - has been
approved and several implementing regulations have been issued.
The Financial Services Commission (FSC), a new integrated
regulator and supervisor for institutions in the insurance, securities,
and pension industries is operating satisfactorily and its capacity is
being strengthened.
Improving the financial infrastructure for renewed bank lending.
Since the onset of the crisis in the mid-1990s, there has been little
new bank lending in Jamaica. With the resolution of all major
financial institutions, the banking sector has just resumed more
prudent lending operations. These are essential to restart economic
growth. The proposed second loan supports the Government's
actions in strengthening the financial infrastructure in Jamaica by



creating the regulatory environment for establishing credit bureaus,
which is a crucial, but currently missing, element in the financial
infrastructure of Jamaica.
PROJECT RATIONALE: The Government of Jamaica recognizes that the two major
challenges to restarting economic growth in Jamaica and thereby
contributing to poverty reduction are the creation of a sound
financial sector after the crisis of the mid-1990s and managing the
debt burden resulting from Government interventions during the
crisis. The proposed loan will support Government actions aimed
at tackling these challenges. Jamaica is moving from a stage
where the Government had become the effective owner of almost
the entire domestically owned financial sector to one where almost
the entire financial sector is foreign owned. There is also an
ongoing transition from an environment of a poor legal, regulatory,
and supervisory framework to one where it is much more in line
with international best practices.
The Government's intervention and restructuring of financial
institutions affected by the crisis through the provision of special
FINSAC securities that capitalized interest in exchange for
impaired assets contributed to the creation of adverse debt
dynamics. The intervention generated a stock of public sector
liabilities (FINSAC debt) of about 42.4 percent of GDP as of
March 2001, over and above an already high pre-crisis public debt
level of over 100 percent of GDP, which has since remained
largely stable. The Government has explicitly recognized the
financial cost of the intervention by converting all FINSAC
liabilities into tradeable Government securities.  On all such
securities held by private financial institutions, the government is
making interest payments in cash.
The Government has committed itself to a program of
macroeconomic stability monitored by the staff of the IMF. As
part of this program, the Government is committed to generating
large primary surpluses through revenue mobilization measures
and restraint on expenditures.  For instance, in FY2000/01,
Jamaica achieved a primary surplus of 12.2 percent of GDP. The
Government's program has had to be modified since the first Staff
Monitored Program, (SMP, formulated in April 2000) largely as
result of (i) external shocks such as the events of September 11,
2001 in the US; (ii) natural disasters such as floods from Hurricane
Michelle in November 2001; (iii) violence in parts of Kingston in
July 2001; and (iv) closure of the bauxite refinery due to a labor
dispute, which impacted negatively on fiscal revenues, foreign
exchange inflows, and GDP growth. All these have adversely
affected the Government's fiscal position. The Bank supported the
Government's economic rehabilitation program in response to the



events of September 11, 2001 through an Emergency
Rehabilitation Loan of US$75 million. The Government's revised
macroeconomic program, though facing significant risks, is
credible, and has strong Government commitment.
Within the context of this strong Government commitmerit, the
Bank has been assisting Jamaica in resolving the financial sector
crisis. In order to minimize risks to the Bank and retain flexibility
to respond to changing circumstances, a programmatic approach to
lending in support of the Government's BRDP was adopted which
called for two separate single-tranche loans each of US$75 million.
The Bank's first BRDP loan, approved in November 2000,
supported the first phase of the financial sector crisis resolution.
The proposed loan supports the second phase of this process. As
in the first loan, the proposed second loan also supports specific
actions taken by the Government prior to Board consideration.
BENEFITS:               The proposed second loan would have several benefits. First, it
would contribute to moving the resolution of the financial crisis
toward completion by supporting the disposal of majority equity
stakes in the last two remaining major financial institutions in
Government hands to foreign investors. Second, the loan would
contribute to enabling the Government to continue its efforts at
servicing the liabilities generated during the crisis in cash. This, in
turn, would support the provision of greater liquidity to the
banking system. Strong and well-capitalized financial institutions
with adequate liquidity would be in better position to provide
prudent lending to the private sector, with the attendant beneficial
effects on growth, wider access, and employment. Third, the
Bank's loan would have a strong positive signaling impact through
supporting the closure of the crisis resolution agency upon the
completion of its responsibilities. Fourth, the loan would support
the continued strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory
framework for the financial sector in Jamaica. This is expected to
reduce the vulnerability of the financial system to future shocks. It
would also contribute to improving the environment for better
lending practices through the creation of credit bureaus. Fifth, it
would support the Government's program of debt management by
contributing to the lengthening of maturities of the public debt and
replacement of the stock of relatively expensive, shorter-term,
domestic debt with relatively cheaper international debt (assuming
only modest depreciation of the Jamaican currency). This would
modestly ease the Government's fiscal burden and reduce the
pressure on domestic interest rates. Sixth, it is expected that the
Bank's support, together with that of the other IFIs, will further
increase confidence of the domestic and foreign private sector
regarding the Government's commitment to the final resolution of



the financial sector crisis, and thereby contribute to greater
economic activity. Finally, resolution of the financial sector crisis
is key if Jamaica is to put its economy back on a sustained positive
growth path. If the Government's program supported by the
proposed loan is successful, a major benefit would be the
resumption of higher economic growth.
RISKS:                   Both the Government's program as well as the Bank's operations
in supporting it face several, significant, risks. Recent exogenous
shocks suffered by the economy have also highlighted the risks
faced by the program. However, actions taken by the Government
since the beginning of the crisis and subsequent to the approval of
the first Bank loan have simultaneously changed the nature of the
risks and contributed to increase confidence that risks are
manageable.  As was the case with the first loan, the Bank
recognizes these risks, as well as the fact that it is not realistically
possible for the proposed operation to address all risks and mitigate
them completely. Despite the risks, the Bank believes it is worth
supporting the Government's program, in order to move the
process of resolution of the financial sector crisis towards
completion and attempt,to maintain higher growth in Jamaica.
The main risks facing the operation are the following: First,
arguably the single biggest risk is that of potential macroeconomic
instability. The Government has thus far been largely successful in
stabilizing and lowering interest rates as well as generating
significant primary surpluses broadly in line with the targets set out
in the SMP. These have enabled it to service its large stock of
debt. However, going forward, there is a risk that servicing the
public debt could become much more challenging. The events of
September 11 in the US and natural disasters such as floods had
major negative implications for the Jamaican economy resulting in
large revenue shortfalls. The economy has low capacity to absorb
more large exogenous shocks.  The Government has already
approached the IFIs and received emergency assistance after the
events of September 11. Additional resources may be harder to
mobilize in the event of further difficulties. The Government's tax
collections are already quite efficient and spending is already on an
extremely tight leash. There is little room for improvement in
revenues or contraction in spending. If fresh exogenous events
cause further fiscal pressures, which are addressed through
additional borrowings, it is unlikely that the Govemment will be
able to meet SMP targets in terms of putting its public debt on a
sustainable path.
Second, the program faces significant political risk. Elections are
due in Jamaica by March 2003 and are likely to be held before the
end of 2002. While the Govemment has thus far shown a strong



commitment to a credible macroeconomic program, it is not
difficult to visualize a scenario where political pressures might
lead to higher than planned public expenditures in the short to
medium term resulting in greater fiscal pressures.
Third, there is a risk that the extremely tight fiscal discipline
required to make the proposed program successful may not be
sustainable in the medium term. Although the tight discipline has
not been the cause of the recent social tensions in Jamaica, such
outcomes remain a risk if rapid economic growth does not resume.
Fourth, the Government's financial sector restructuring program
has been largely successful in placing the sector on a path to
recovery. However, this has been achieved by placing a large
amount of Government debt in the sector, raising its exposure to
Government credit risk. Government bonds form the majority of
bank asset portfolios, both because of the replacement of FINSAC
debt with government bonds, as well as through their own
investment operations. As long as the Government continues to
service its obligations, the banking sector is likely to remain
relatively sound. However, if the Government has difficulty
servicing its debt, the quality of bank assets will almost certainly
rapidly erode, with concomitant adverse impact on banking system
soundness.
Fifth, although banking sector and non-bank financial institutions'
regulation and supervision have been significantly strengthened,
continuous vigilance will be necessary to ensure that there are no
lapses in supervision, which could expose the financial system to
additional risks. The FSC is a new entity and continued support to
strengthen it and enhance its autonomy are necessary to ensure that
it successfully performs its functions. Jamaica now has a largely
sound legal framework for the financial sector. It needs to ensure
that its implementation and enforcement continue.
SCHEDULE OF
DISBURSEMENTS:          The full amount of the loan is expected to be disbursed in a single
tranche upon loan effectiveness.
CLOSING DATE:           December 31, 2002
PROJECT II) NUMBER: P073756



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (BRDP II)
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to Jamaica in the amount of US$75 million to support the second phase of the Government's
Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program (BRDP II). The program focuses on
completing the financial resolution of the crisis that occurred in the mid-1990s and involves the
following components: (i) sale of the National Commercial Bank (NCB, currently the second
largest commercial bank) and Life of Jamaica (LOJ, the largest insurance company); (ii) sale of
NPL portfolio; (iii) disposal of a significant portion of the real estate asset portfolio; (iv) closure
of operations of the crisis management agency; (v) restructuring and management of the public
debt arising from the resolution of the financial sector crisis; (vi) regulatory and supervisory
reforms in the financial sector; and (vii) improving the financial infrastructure. The loan will be
a fixed-spread US dollar loan repayable in 16 years including 6 years of grace. The loan will
carry the Bank's standard terms on interest rates, front-end fees, and commitment charges for
fixed-spread loans.
I. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND RECENT PERFORMANCE
A.    The Context
2.    As discussed in the Board document for the first BRDP loan (Report No. P7397-JM)', a
severe financial sector crisis occurred in Jamaica in the mid-1990s. The crisis was largely
attributable to rapid financial sector liberalization that was not complemented by a sufficiently
robust prudential and regulatory infrastructure and strong enforcement. A large number and
variety of financial institutions emerged, enabling regulatory arbitrage. By late 1996, there were
compelling signs of systemic liquidity and solvency problems in several financial institutions and
inflationary pressures built up. The Government's response focused on reducing inflation
through tight monetary policy, maintaining a stable nominal exchange rate, intervening in the
financial sector through a full guarantee for all depositors, strengthening the regulatory and
supervisory framework of the financial sector, and re-capitalizing weak institutions using
Govermment-backed debt issued by a newly created failure resolution agency - the Financial
Sector Adjustment Company Limited (FINSAC). This institution was established in 1997 with
the objectives of intervention, rehabilitation and divestment of troubled financial institutions.
Through the interventions of FINSAC, the Government largely avoided a meltdown of the
financial sector.
I The loan was approved by the Bank on November 30, 2000.



3.    However, the stabilization of the financial sector came at a substantial cost. Since the
Government did not have the resources to service all FINSAC notes in cash, it resorted to
capitalizing interest on FINSAC paper (largely at market interest rates that peaked at about 20
percent per year) through the issue of more FINSAC paper. While this postponed the financial
recognition of the costs of the crisis, the compounding effect of interest capitalization resulted in
an extremely rapid growth of FINSAC paper - reaching a level of about J$142.7 billion (about
US$3 billion, or about 42.4 percent of GDP) as of March 2001, without resolving the banks'
cash flow problems. Taking into account the already high (non-FINSAC) public debt that
existed before the crisis (over 100 percent of GDP in 1995, which has largely remained stable
since then), Jamaica faces a severe debt sustainability and fiscal problem.
4.    The Govemment recognized that resolution of the financial sector crisis and reversing the
adverse debt dynamics was essential for the economy to achieve significant recovery. Since
early 2000, the Govemment has undertaken several promising initiatives, including a significant
clean up and restructuring of the financial sector, maintaining an extremely tight fiscal stance in
which large primary surpluses were targeted and largely achieved, and signing of agreements
with the IMvF for two Staff-Monitored Programs (SMPs) covering the years 2000-2002 and
2002-03. On the basis of these actions, the Govemment approached the Bank, the IDB, and the
CDB for support to resolve the crisis in the financial sector. The Bank approved a US$75
million in November 2000 and disbursed it in full in December 2000 to support the first phase of
the Govemment's program. The loan was part of a programmatic approach in which the Bank
envisioned providing a second loan of an equivalent amount to support the second phase of the
Govemment's program. The IDB approved a two-tranche loan for US$150 million in September
2000 and disbursed the first tranche shortly thereafter. Faced with the shocks of late 2001, the
IDB responded to the Government's request for funds by formally splitting the second tranche
into two components of US$40 and $35 million each. The first component of the second tranche
for US$40 million was disbursed in March 2002. The CDB approved a US$25 million loan, of
which $5.9 million remains to be disbursed. The CDB also approved an additional US$4 million
for ongoing technical assistance.
B. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects2
5.    Since the last CAS for Jamaica was discussed at the Board in November 2000, the
Jamaican economy has been continuing on a gradual recovery path, and, despite some major
concerns on the debt front, it is in better shape than at any point since the financial crisis began in
1996. After four years of negative growth following the financial crisis, real GDP rose by 1.1%
in 2000/01 and again in 2001/02, in spite of the multiple shocks of 2001. The fiscal effort that
began in 1998/99 has been sustained. Single-digit inflation, a key macroeconomic objective of
the Government, was achieved for the sixth consecutive year (inflation was 7.6% at end-March
2002, a little higher than 6.4% in March 2001), largely through tight monetary policy.
Significant improvements in private capital inflows and government borrowings from successful
international bond issues in May and December 2001 led to a rebuilding of net international
2 For more details regarding the macroeconomic situation, see (i) Jamaica: Staff Report of the Article IV
Consultation and Review of the Staff Monitored Program, IMF Document No. EBS/01/83 dated June 14, 2001 (ii)
Report No. P7493-JM, Jamaica: Emergency Economic Rehabilitation Loan, December 7, 2001, The World Bank;
and (iii) Report No. 24689-3M, CAS Progress Report for Jamaica 2002-03 (which accompanies this loan).
2



reserves of over US$650 million during 2001/02, reaching US$1.9 billion by March 2002 (about
23 weeks of goods and services imports). A 15-year, US$300 million bond issue was
successfully floated in June 2002. It was heavily oversubscribed at an interest rate of 10.75%.
Also, S&P reaffirmed its B+ long-term foreign currency and its BB- long-term local currency
sovereign ratings for Jamaica in March 2002, and projected a stable outlook based on the
Government's maintenance of macroeconomic stability
6.    In July 2002, a new SMP was agreed between the authorities and the IMF for 2002/03,
signaling the Government's reaffirmation of fiscal discipline even during an election year.3
7.    Real GDP growth was estimated at 3 percent from April to September 2001, primarily
due to a recovery in agriculture from the previous year's drought, resumption of bauxite and
alumina production after a disruption in a processing plant in the US, and growth in tourism.
The economy was adversely affected by several major shocks in the second half of 2001 - an
outbreak of violence in Kingston in July, the impact of the terrorist attacks on the US in
September on tourism (aggravated by the slowdown in the US economy), floods in late
November which damaged one-fifth of Jamaica's crop acreage, and an October-December 2001
strike in a major alumina producer that caused a 17 percent drop in mining output in that quarter.
Finally, Jamaica again experienced heavy flooding in May 2002, which damaged agricultural
crops and infrastructure. In spite of such multiple shocks, positive growth was experienced in
2000/01, and is estimated at 1.1 percent for 2001/02 and projected at 2.0 percent for 2002/03
(revised from earlier estimates of 2.5 percent).
8.    These shocks have impacted most severely on tourism and its related sectors. Tourist
arrivals for stopover visitors declined by 7.6 percent in 2001/02 compared to a growth of 6.3
percent in 2000/01 (cruise arrivals dropped by 5.1 percent in 2001/02 after a 14.4 percent growth
in 2000/01). -Net tourism receipts are estimated to have declined by almost 12 percent in
2001/02. A recovery in tourism is anticipated towards the second half of 2002/03, but remains
vulnerable to economic conditions in the U.S.
9.    The strong fiscal adjustment effort since 1998/99 weakened in 2001/02 due to the shocks,
with the central government deficit at 5.7 percent of GDP, a substantial deviation from the May
2001 target of 2.8 percent. This was mainly due to lower revenues from taxes, but also to
increased expenditure on security, tourism promotion and flood relief, wage settlements due
earlier than anticipated, and interest payments related to the holding of FINSAC securities at
National Commercial Bank (NCB). The central government primary surplus declined to 8.0
percent of GDP in 2001/02 from 11.8 percent in 2000/01, although still reflecting a significant
fiscal adjustment effort.
10.   Public sector debt declined from 131.9% at end-March 2001 to 130.6% of GDP at end-
March 2002, less than the over 6 percentage points decline anticipated in the May 2001 SNP
projection. On the external front, the debt service ratio rose from 14.6 percent of exports of
goods and services in 2000/01 to 19.2 percent in 2001/02. The cost of servicing an expanding
public debt poses significant fiscal challenges for the Government. There has been a downward
3IMF Country Report No. 02/197.
3



trend in interest rates, with the six-month Treasury Bill declining from 16.9 percent at end-March
2001 to 14.6 percent at end-March 2002 (it fell further to 13.8 percent at end-June 2002).
11.   The real effective exchange rate has appreciated substantially relative to 1995 (44.8
percent between December 1994 and December 1998), although there has been a partial reversal
of this after 1998 including in calendar year 2002 (7.7 percent depreciation between December
1998 and July 2002, including about 2 percent between April and July 2002). Much of this
appreciation can be linked to the financial crisis and the resultant need to keep a tight monetary
policy. The tight monetary policy, along with the trade liberalization, has successfully reduced
inflation, but the resultant appreciation has also eroded competitiveness and growth prospects.
Lower export earnings (due to lower prices on bauxite and aluminum), a decline in tourism
receipts and increased investment income outflows have resulted in a widening of the current
account deficit from 5.7 percent of GDP in 2000/01 to 8.0 percent of GDP in 2001/02 (5.3
percent projected in the July 2002 SMP). This occurred despite a 17 percent increase in
remittances to US$986 million in 2001/02. Part of the current account deficit is "self-financing",
since both FDI as well as remittances also lead to greater imports (also, remittances in kind are
recorded both as merchandise imports and also as transfers). The rising trend in the current
account deficit, accompanied by a long-term appreciation in the exchange rate is a cause for
concern, and bears close attention.
12.   However, in spite of difficult market conditions, spreads over US Treasury Bills on
Jamaican bonds are relatively low, and net international reserves were above target at US$1.9
billion at end-March 2002 (about US$1.8 billion at the end of June), partly due to the US$250
million 20-year international bond issue in December 2001. In June 2002, Jamaica again
successfully issued a 15-year US$300 million international bond, which was heavily
oversubscribed, at a yield of 10.75 percent.
13.   The Government program for the current fiscal year aims to accelerate growth through
continued fiscal consolidation, macroeconomic stability and structural reforms. An increase in
economic growth to 2.5 percent is forecasted for 2002/03. The primary sources of growth
include recovery in agriculture, tourism and mining (however, the impact of the floods in May
2002 and a later-than-anticipated recovery in tourism may lower growth, thus the Bank's forecast
for 2002/03 is a more conservative 2 percent) as well as continued modest growth in services,
particularly in the telecommunications sub-sector. Under the new SMP, the Government has
committed itself to further strong fiscal adjustment, including measures to improve tax
compliance, increase user fees, and restrain expenditures on wages and salaries. Also, the central
government deficit is projected to decline to 4.4 percent of GDP and the central government
primary surplus to increase to 10.4 percent of GDP (public sector primary surplus to 11 percent
of GDP)4. However, the overall public sector deficit is expected to remain high at 6.6 percent of
GDP (6.8 percent in 2001/02), due to a projected increase in Bank of Jamaica's operating losses.
14.   The high debt overhang and continued deficits, and the resulting debt service, mean that
the Government's discretionary expenditure is seriously compromised. Sustained improvement
in the adverse debt dynamics will need a reduction of the public sector borrowing requirement
4A review of these targets is expected before the end of 2002 to take account of the damage caused by floods in
May 2002.
4



and a sustained reduction in domestic interest rates. It is estimated that the public sector debt
will decline to 128.4 percent of GDP in 2002/03, after taking into account resolution of the
FINSAC debt at the BOJ. This represents a 2.2 percentage-point decline over 2001/02, which is
less than that projected in the May 2001 SMP. 5
15.   The Government's SMP foresees a tight monetary policy to target inflation of less than 7
percent for 2002/03. The primary objective of exchange rate policy is to maintain single digit
inflation, while maintaining and strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. In the first
quarter of 2002/03, the real effective exchange rate has depreciated marginally by 1.5 percent.
The current account deficit is expected to increase to 8.2 percent due to higher oil prices and a
slower than anticipated recovery in tourism. The target for net international reserves is US$1.6
billion at end-March 2003 (18.8 weeks of imports of goods and services).
II. THE JAMAICAN FINANCIAL SECTOR CRISIS
16.   Jamaica faced a severe financial sector crisis in 1995-96. A detailed discussion of the
causes and management of the crisis is available in Report No. P7397-JM: Report and
Recommendation of the President for the first Bank Restructuring and Debt Management
Program Adjustment Loan6. In brief, newly privatized banks and non-bank financial institutions
operating under an inadequate regulatory and supervisory regime undertook risky lending and
investment activities in an environment of a booming real estate market. When government
macroeconomic policy caused high interest rates and the real-estate bubble burst, many of these
institutions failed. The legal framework for intervening financial institutions was weak and gave
inadequate powers of intervention, sanction, and enforcement to supervisors.
17.   Insurance companies played a key role in triggering the crisis. They offered new
insurance products in the early 1990s (popularly known as investment or lump-sum policies),
which enabled them to take deposits disguised as insurance premiums. A small portion of the
deposits went to insurance coverage, while the majority was used to invest in real estate, stocks,
bonds, and securities. Once the liquidity problems emerged, insurance companies tapped mostly
their related banks for funds, triggering the problems that surfaced in the banking sector.
18.   The Government initially attempted to implement loss-sharing arrangements with
depositors for the first few failed institutions. However, depositor confidence evaporated and
runs began on the banking system. Depositors shifted their funds into stronger institutions -
particularly foreign-owned - in an extensive flight to quality. The authorities then reassured the
public by extending full coverage of all bank liabilities, revoking their original response to
earlier bank failures.  The implementation of this costly approach emerged from     the
Government's worries that large risk of ongoing bank runs would have become systemic
increasing possibilities for capital flight, coupled with evidence of increasing social turmoil.7 In
5Based on a symmetric treatment of the resolution of BOJ losses, the decline was about 4.4 percentage points.
Table 3 in the CAS PR notionally includes the resolution of BOJ losses in the debt stock before 2002/03 for
gurposes of symmetric comparison of the debt profile (see also footnote 4 in the CAS PR).
The discussion in Report No. P7397-JM, although not repeated here, remains relevant to the proposed loan.
7 Capital flight was lessened by significant flight to quality of deposits from troubled domestic banks largely to the
Bank of Nova Scotia -an international bank with a large market presence, perceived as stronger by depositors.
5



the process, the Government effectively became the owner of, or a major investor in most of the
domestically owned financial sector.
19.   The Government initially established the Financial Institutions Services (FIS) to wind
down the operations of the first two failed financial groups. In 1997, as the full extent of the
crisis became clearer, the Government established another public sector entity, the Financial
Sector Adjustment Company Limited (FINSAC), with a broader mandate to: (i) restore liquidity
and solvency to distressed institutions; (ii) strengthen the financial management of institutions;
(iii) improve the efficiency of the financial sector in mobilizing and allocating resources; and (iv)
restructure existing financial institutions so that they could be attractive to private investors in
the future. FINSAC assisted financial institutions and re-capitalized them by purchasing shares,
making subordinated loans, and purchasing non-performing loans. FINSAC's activities in
managing the crisis can be divided into two phases: the intervention phase and the rehabilitation
phase.
A.    The Intervention Phase of FINSAC's Operations
20.   FINSAC implemented a series of interventions and acquired a large share of the
ownership of the financial system. It provided assistance to five commercial banks, five life
insurance companies, two building societies, and nine merchant banks. Initially, it provided
some resources in cash, but when the size of the problem increased, it provided institutions with
special, largely illiquid FINSAC notes that allowed capitalization of interest8. FINSAC notes
carried mostly floating- interest rates usually indexed to the 6-month Jamaican Treasury Bill rate9.
The interest payment on almost all notes was capitalized in the form of fresh FINSAC notes. As
of March 2001, FINSAC's gross support to the system amounted to about J$142.7 billion, 42.4
percent of GDP.
B.    The Rehabilitation Phase of FINSAC's Operations
21.   Subsequent to initial intervention, FINSAC attempted to rehabilitate intervened financial
institutions through introduction of better management and cost-cutting measures, such as staff
and branch rationalization in order to prepare them for sale.
Rehabilitation of banks
22.   This involved mergers to consolidate the banking operations of all FINSAC controlled
institutions into two banks -Union Bank (UB) and National Commercial Bank (NCB). FINSAC
first merged (the good bank portion of) smaller intervened domestic banks into Citizens Bank,
and changed its name to Union Bank in June 1999. It merged two smaller merchant and trust
banks into NCB. As of March 2001 (before the sale of UB to the Royal Bank of Trinidad and
Tobago, RBTT, became effective), institutions intervened by FINSAC -consolidated into NCB
8 About 82 percent of the total amount of resources provided by FINSAC at the point of intervention was in the
form of bonds.
9 Only a few of the bonds carried fixed interest rates - mostly ranging from 9-10 percent for FINSAC notes
denominated in Jamaican dollars and 7-9 percent for notes denominated in US dollars. FINSAC notes denominated
in US dollars were a small fraction of overall FINSAC paper.
6



and Union Bank- held close to 45 percent of total commercial bank deposits of the Jamaican
financial system.
Rehabilitation of life insurance companies
23.   Concomitantly with the advances in the banking sector, the Government restructured the
insurance sector. Importantly, in providing support to intervened insurance companies the
Government cut off the financial ties that existed between these companies and related banks,
thus improving the transparency and soundness of the system. This endeavor complements the
concerted effort within the industry to return to the core business of insurance, while moving
away from other financial activities in which they were heavily involved in the past. FINSAC
undertook a major restructuring process and divestment strategy for the insurance sector. It sold
the interest-sensitive deposit-like instruments of intervened insurance companies to Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) and used Treasury bonds (LRS) and cash obtained from the MOF as assets to
back up these liabilities. It sold the traditional life policies and pension funds of intervened
insurance firms to non-intervened domestic insurance companies and new foreign entrants.
C.    Impact of the Financial Sector Intervention on the Public Debt
24.   The support programs aimed at averting the collapse of the financial system generated a
large stock of debt as a result of the direct assistance given to banks and the purchase of non-
performing loans by FINSAC, plus the accruals of interest being capitalized on the debt. The
Government took over the majority of FINSAC's liabilities as of March 31, 2001 and it is
servicing them in cashl. As of March 31, 2001 the total stock of FINSAC/FIS liabilities
amounted to J$142.7 billion, equivalent to 42.4 percent of GDP, almost as large as Jamaica's
external debt"1. The main holders of this debt were the MOF, the BOJ, Union Bank, NCB, and
others (mostly insurance companies).
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S BANK RESTRUCTURING
& DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
25.   FINSAC's intervention in the financial sector and regulatory reforms subsequent to the
crisis have dramatically reduced the number of financial intermediaries in Jamaica and greatly
simplified the ownership structure (In Report no. P7397-JM, see Annex m for details on the
banking sector and Annex IV for details on the insurance sector). Total banking sector assets as
of May 2002 were J$330 billion (US$6.8 billion) with commercial banks representing 76.6
percent of total, building societies 15.8 percent and near banks 7.6 percent. Currently there are 6
commercial banks, 11 merchant banks, and 4 building societies. As of May 2002, NCB and
BNS together represent about 74 percent of total assets of commercial banks. The remaining 26
percent includes: Union Bank (RBTT Bank of Jamaica since November 2001), 14 percent;
CIBC, 6.8 percent; Citibank, 4 percent; and TCB Group (domestic, now First Global), 1.7
10 FINSAC bonds at the BOJ were converted into government bonds only in September 2002, and interest on them
is being accrued, although at market interest rates. Details are discussed in Section IIl-D.
I l The Government implemented a series of actions - supported by the Bank's first loan - aimed at restructuring this
debt, which were effective April 1, 2001. The figures given in this section are prior to the restructuring.
7



percent. As of December 2001, life insurance companies had total assets of J$35 billion
(US$720 million) and non-life insurance companies of J$17.6 billion (US$362 million). Of the
large banks, BNS has the largest share in total commercial loan portfolio with 56 percent of the
total (or 31 percent of its total assets, compared to 22 percent in investments), while 50 percent
of the assets of NCB and about 65 percent (declining from 70 percent after redemptions by
MOF) of the assets of Union Bank are primarily tied up in LRS that replaced FINSAC paper.
A. The Government's Financial Sector Restructuring Strategy
26.   As discussed above, during the intervention and rehabilitation phases of the
Govemment's support to the financial sector, FINSAC acquired significant control of the
domestic financial system. In addition, since a large part of bank portfolios were concentrated in
real estate -either as assets financed through loans or as collateral, FINSAC also became the
owner of numerous real estate assets such as commercial and residential properties. The
portfolio of problem loans bought in the restructuring process is also an important part of
FINSAC assets. The Government adopted a phased strategy to dispose of the financial
institutions and other assets in which it had acquired interests as a result of the crisis and the
Bank's support to the Government has been in line with this phased approach. The divestment
process is a crucial final component of the Government's financial restructuring strategy.
Divestment of Financial Institutions
27.   The Bank's first loan supported FINSAC's sale of Union Bank to RBTT. At the time,
FINSAC held majority equity stakes in two other major financial institutions - National
Commercial Bank and Life of Jamaica. As part of the actions to be supported by the proposed
second loan, these two financial institutions have been sold. FINSAC sold its entire majority
shareholding in Life of Jamaica on November 15, 2001, to a subsidiary of Barbados Mutual
Assurance Society for US$41 million. FINSAC sold its entire majority shareholding in NCB on
January 11, 2002, receiving a down payment of about US$55 million, out of a total sale price of
about US$125 million12. As a result, the Government has no majority equity stake in financial
institution since January 2002 -although it is in the process of divesting equity holdings of about
26 percent in each of three institutions (Island life, Dyoll Insurance Co., and Victoria Mutual
Building Society), as discussed below in paragraph 33.
Asset Disposal - Portfolio of non-performing loans
28.   FINSAC acquired a non-performing loan portfolio of J$74 billion (face value of J$33
billion along with accrued interest) from intervened financial institutions. Disposal of these
loans has been an important element of the resolution of the financial sector crisis. FINSAC
established a workout unit to manage this portfolio and attempt recovery. By August 2001, this
unit had recovered about J$5.7 billion. As part of the actions supported by the Bank's first loan,
FINSAC hired an international consultant to assist in the process of disposal of the NPL portfolio
and obtained a preliminary diagnosis of the status of the portfolio. As part of the actions to be
supported by the second loan, the portfolio was sold to a subsidiary of Beal Bank of Texas on
12 The sale price is based on the bank's net asset value as of September 2001.
8



January 30, 2002.13 The Govemment received a down payment of US$23 million (about J$1.1
billion), and the sale is structured so that the government shares in the recoveries actually made
by the purchaser according to the following schedule: 15 percent of the first US$50 million
recovered, 25 percent of the second, 35 percent of the third, 45 percent of the fourth, and 50
percent of the remainder. The offer is based on cash flow projections for the next 3-4 years
where the buyer expects to collect approximately US$215 million in gross proceeds, leading to
total estimated income for the Government of about US$90 million in the next two years. This
would result in a recovery rate of about 22 cents per dollar face value of NPLs. As of July 2002,
FINSAC had already received about US$2 million in recoveries for a total of about US$25
million (J$1.2 billion) - including the US$23 million down payment.
Asset Disposal - Portfolio of other assets
29.    FINSAC also acquired a large portfolio of other non-core assets during the intervention
process (residential and commercial real estate, and other assets such as furniture & equipment,
artwork, and motor vehicles). As part of the actions supported by the first loan, FINSAC had, by
August 2000, sold J$11 billion of non-core assets. As part of the actions to be supported by the
proposed second loan, FINSAC has made further progress in this area, with sales of J$15 billion.
It has sold 98 percent of the portfolio of residential properties - realizing a total amount of J$0.5
billion. The disposal of commercial properties (including freehold land, industrial, & hotels) has
been slower, with sales for J$10.6 billion accounting for about 75 percent of the total14. Out of
six hotels it acquired, FINSAC has sold four and entered into a lease with an option to buy
agreement for another hotel", . FINSAC also sold J$3.9 billion in other assets.
30.    To speed up the sale process of commercial real estate properties, FINSAC designed a
new strategy in 2001 and packaged most remaining properties for sale in bulk 17, but delayed the
bidding process until the first quarter of 2002 to avoid undermining the then ongoing sale of
NPLs. The Government accepted bids from several interested parties until April 30, 2002.
Although FINSAC found the offers received on bulk sales too low, it accepted individual offers
on 9 of the 25 properties being sold, accounting for 40 percent of the total portfolio packaged for
sale. FINSAC has provided the Bank with a list of sold and unsold properties as of July 2002,
with several properties (specially those acquired in the process of selling LOJ in November
2001) under sale arrangements in process, expected to be finalized by the end of 2002.
13 Civil unrest in Jamaica in the summer of 2001 and the events of September 11, 2001 in the US adversely affected
the interest of potential buyers in the first attempt to sell the NPL portfolio. However, soon thereafter, FINSAC
aggressively marketed the portfolio and finalized the sale.
I These figures are based on the fire-sale value of the properties, as estimated by FINSAC.
15 The Sandals Group has leased the property and has an option to buy it within three years.
16 The last hotel pending disposal has a combined shareholding of Kassner Estate and FIS for a total of 78 percent.
These two shareholders would like to dispose of their respective holdings together. The hotel is currently under a
long-term management contract with Marriott, which makes interest from outside parties harder to materialize.
17 This includes real estate properties that the Government retained after the sale of NCB and LOJ.
9



Winding Down of FINSAC
31.   With the completion of FINSAC's responsibilities of intervening and rehabilitating crisis-
hit institutions and subsequently, disposing of its majority equity stakes in intervened
institutions, the Government closed FINSAC operations as of July 2002. The winding down of
FINSAC, is expected to have a strong positive signaling effect of indicating the end of a crisis
and the beginning of a new era with stronger financial institutions. However, FINSAC has had
to deal with a number of issues as a consequence of the diverse nature of the subsidiaries of the
financial institutions that it acquired. There were also legal proceedings associated with some of
the interventions.  The management of the Government's minority stakes in intervened
institutions as well as the responsibility of completing the legal procedures required to formally
close down institutions that have already ceased operations have been transferred to FIS (see
Annex HI).
32.   The Government is proceeding with the divestment of FINSAC's minority equity stakes
of 26 percent in Island Life, 26.5 percent in Dyoll Insurance Co., and US$8.25 million of
preferred shares in Victoria Mutual Building Society (VMBS)18. In addition, out of the 172
companies -subsidiaries of the financial institutions that FINSAC had acquired- that FINSAC
originally had to dispose/liquidate, it has dissolved 72; two are being stricken off awaiting
notification from the Registrar of Companies; and 45 companies have had their documentation
completed and reviewed and are pending the appointment of a liquidator (see Annex E). The
remaining two categories include 29 companies for which FIS has assumed the operational
responsibility to complete formalities, and 24 companies for which FIiNSAC is proceeding with
the divestment of its shares. On the latter category, the resolution of some of the companies will
be protracted, as there are major legal and other administrative issues surrounding them. The
gross financial exposure of the Government on account of these remaining ownership stakes is
small.
B. The Government's Strategy to Strengthen Regulation and Supervision of the Financial
Sector
33.   As FINSAC attempted to restore liquidity and re-capitalize weak institutions, the
Government undertook the reform of the regulatory and supervisory framework. Significant
progress has been made in several areas since the onset of the crisis. The supervisory power of
the BOJ over commercial banks, merchant banks, and building societies has been strengthened.
Jamaica has introduced a Deposit Insurance Act with limited protection to cover deposits up to
J$300,000 (about US$6,600) of commercial banks, merchant banks, and building societies,
funded by premiums paid by these institutions. Keeping in view that poor regulation and
supervision of the insurance companies was a key problem in precipitating the crisis, a major
overhaul of the regulation and supervision in the insurance sector was undertaken through
technical assistance supported by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and is being
continued through technical assistance supported by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). A
detailed discussion of the regulatory and supervisory framework for the banks and non-bank
financial institutions in Jamaica as of September 30, 2000 is given in Report No. P7397 JM:
18 The VMBS deal has been agreed upon in writing and finalization of legal documents is expected shortly (by end-
September), while the other two transactions are at an advanced stage, expecting completion before the end of 2002.
10



Report and Recommendation of the President for the first Bank Restructuring and Debt
Management Program Loan19. Annex IV of this document provides details on recent
developments in the regulation and supervision of the banking sector since September 30, 2000.
Annex V and VI of this document discuss details of the institutional structure of the insurance
sector (the most significant of the non-bank financial institutions in Jamaica) and its regulation
and supervision respectively.
Actions in the banking sector supported by the Bank's first loan
34.   Following on several critical improvements of regulation for the banking system made
since 1997, the Bank's first loan supported several actions of the Government in continuing to
strengthen that regulatory and supervisory regime. Legislation empowering the BOJ to intervene
in distressed financial institutions without the Finance Minister's approval was drafted. Cabinet
approval was obtained to amend bank secrecy provisions to permit exchange of information
between local financial regulatory agencies.  The BOJ issued an updated "Ladder of
Enforcement" to supervised entities, which incorporated the 1997 amendments into the
previously circulated document that clarified steps in the intervention process. The BOJ, which
had already undertaken a self-assessment of its compliance with the Basle Core Principles in
2000, agreed to undertake an independent assessment in 2001. The Government committed to
make its best efforts in obtaining Parliamentary approval of legislative changes approved by the
Cabinet in critical areas identified in the assessments.
Actions in the banking sector to be supported by the Bank's proposed second loan
35.   Since the approval of the first loan, the BOJ has continued to strengthen its supervisory
capabilities. It is widely acknowledged by supervised institutions that the scrutiny performed by
the BOJ has dramatically improved since the crisis (see Annex IV for a summary).
36.   In line with its commitments to the Bank, the BOJ undertook an independent assessment
of its compliance with the BCP in 2001. The IMF led the assessment team with participation
from staff of the Financial Services Authority of the UK and the Bank of Sweden. The
assessment concluded that the BOJ is fully compliant with 11 principles, largely compliant with
8, materially noncompliant with 5, and noncompliant with 1. Thus, Jamaica shows a satisfactory
level of compliance with the BCPs. Areas of weaknesses identified by the assessment relate to
independence of bank supervisors, consolidated supervision, remedial measures (as impacted by
BOJ's limited autonomy to take action), and market and country risks. In relation to market and
country risk, the lMF-led team also acknowledged that work which had already proceeded apace
under the BOJ's action plan arising from its earlier self-assessment would result in material
upgrading in this area in the short term. Based on this assessment, the BOJ updated its earlier
formulated action plan and implemented specific proposals to address areas of weakness. The
main actions undertaken by the BOJ include the drafting of prudential regulations on country
risk, market risk and consolidated supervision as well as IMF-sponsored technical assistance
initiatives on market risk and consolidated supervision. The technical assistance received also
included some training of supervisory staff in the areas of market risk and consolidated
19 Although not repeated here, the discussion in Report No. P7397 remains relevant to the proposed loan.



supervision. The BOJ has also undertaken other training initiatives in the area of market risk,
which have involved training of several senior examiners by the Federal Reserve Board, and
specific assignments of such senior officers at Federal Reserve Banks on Market Risk
examinations.
37.   As part of the actions to be supported by the Bank's proposed second loan, the relevant
legislation was amended to enable BOJ's compliance with two of the five BCPs (relating to
consolidated supervision and remedial measures) in which Jamaica was found to be materially
non-compliant.
* The BOJ was granted the necessary powers to carry out consolidated supervision, including
extended jurisdiction over non-banking institutions integrated in banking groups.  In
addition, MOUs were signed among the two main financial supervisory agencies (BOJ and
FSC), the Jamaica Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Ministry of Finance, which gave
legal underpinning to the formation of a coordinating body, the Financial Regulatory Council
(FRC), chaired by the Govemor of the BOJ. This Council commenced meetings in
December 2000 and has issued reports to the Finance Minister;
* The BOJ was granted the power to require the restructuring of a group of companies to
ensure that financial and non-financial activities are segregated in different sub-groups within
an economic group so as to reduce the possibility of contagion;
* The BOJ was granted the power to require the segregation of non-banking activities in banks
by the transfer of those operations to a separate corporate entity;
* The BOJ was given the power to impose penalties in cases of specified technical breaches of
the banking statutes and the schedule of fines and penalties was upgraded;
* Powers of temporary management of deposit taking financial institutions were transferred
from the Minister of Finance and Planning to the BOJ; and
* The categories of exemptions to bank secrecy laws were extended to permit disclosure of
information where it is in the specific bank's interest that the information be disclosed
(example for the purposes of the acquisition of the bank by outside parties).
38.   To achieve compliance with the issue of independence of the supervisor, amendments to
various statutes were introduced in March 2002 transferring from the Minister to the BOJ the
power of temporary management; the Minister retains powers of approval and revocation of
licenses, final determination on persons debarred from bank management, vesting the shares of
an intervened institution and other regulation making powers. Similar to the reform of the
process for determining fit and proper criteria pursuant to the granting of new licenses, the
Minister is now also required to obtain the prior positive recommendation of the BOJ when
authorizing the change of control of a deposit-taking institution or a banking group.
39.   To achieve compliance with the two other core principles (relating to investment criteria
and market risks) with which the BOJ is also materially non-compliant and, more generally, to
strengthen the overall regulatory framework, the BOJ has proposed the introduction of further
amendments to legislation including: (i) streamlining the provisions relating to the acquisition of
interest in deposit-taking institutions and introducing new definitions of "control", "subsidiary",
"parent company", and "capital base"; (ii) requiring institutions to notify the BOJ of any
proposed acquisition of any other company and prior to undertaking of any new type of business,
with the BOJ reserving the right to veto such acquisition or undertaking; (iii) requiring
12



shareholders of institutions to advise of any transaction which will increase a shareholder's
holdings by incrementals of 5 percent or more, or will increase the shareholder's holdings to 20
percent, 50 percent or 75 percent or more of voting power or issued shares; requiring institutions
to advise the BOJ of any investment or credit facility in excess of 5 percent of the capital base;
and (iv) introducing a new definition of capital.
40.   The BOJ has continued to update the ladder of enforcement ("Guide to Intervention of
Supervised Financial Institutions") that clearly spells out to the industry the supervisory
approach of the BOJ, aimed at (i) recognizing areas of concern at an early stage, (ii) enabling
prompt action to effectively contain the problems, and (iii) taking the appropriate steps to sort
out the problems and minimize any systemic effects. This guide includes the sanctions that will
be imposed by the BOJ or that the BOJ will refer to the relevant sanctioning body.
41.   These amendments have corrected the shortcomings in the present legal framework that
prevented Jamaica from fully complying with the BCPs. Hereafter, compliance with the
principles would be accomplished through progressive implementation of the new laws,
including new regulations and supervisory procedures, which the BOJ has started to implement.
Although currently banks in Jamaica are not largely exposed to country and transfer risk (BCP
11), the BOJ has issued to the industry a guidance document on such risks that is now in force.
The industry has effectively implemented this standard and this will make Jamaica compliant
with this particular BCP.
42.   As discussed above, a Financial Regulatory Council has been formed to improve the
coordination among supervisors of different type financial institutions. Amendments to relevant
laws to permit information exchange between supervisors have been approved by the Parliament.
The FRC facilitates sharing of information and aids in the process of harmonization of important
regulations (risk-based capital adequacy, reporting requirements, reserve requirements, crisis-
intervention policies) to reduce the possibility of regulatory arbitrage.
43.   With all the changes in banking laws and regulations introduced since the crisis, there is
an acute need for consolidation and harmonization of the various pieces of legislations governing
the deposit-taking system, amendments, and regulations so as to remove material inconsistencies,
which now exist. Such consolidation would provide a clearer and cleaner framework for future
operation of the banking sector. The Government has agreed that it will present an Omnibus
banking statute to Parliament that will achieve this objective in 2003. The BOJ has already made
proposals for the drafting of this law. This new Omnibus law will also upgrade BOJ's guidelines
on minimum policies and procedures that it expects licensed institutions to comply with, and the
"Standards of Best Practice", which have already been implemented, to the status of enforceable
regulations.
44.   The BOJ has also made proposals to the Government to address within the Omnibus law,
other recommendations for legislative amendment included in the BCP to appropriately
strengthen the regulatory framework, such as the introduction of specific regulation of leasing
activities, the requirement that credit to related parties are extended on arms length basis, and the
like.
13



Future reform agenda in the banking sector
45.   Strengthening regulation and supervision in the banking sector is a continuous process
and the BOJ is committed to ensuring that its institutional capacity stays in line with
international best practice. At present, the BOJ is in the process of updating current policy and
procedural manuals as well as designing and preparing inserts/manuals for the new areas under
development (e.g. market risk, consolidated supervision), developing more robust and responsive
information systems and systems of supervisory reporting, and continually upgrading its staff
training program. It is also far advanced in its work on the development and implementation of a
supervisory framework for credit unions and the development and implementation of a
framework to evaluate market risk for financial institutions. BOJ staff has continued to take
advantage of the US Federal Reserve Board's training programs for supervisors to upgrade their
capacities and skills. The guidance document on consolidated supervision has been drafted, and
is now being discussed with the industry.
Actions in the non-bankfinancial institution sector supported by the Bank'sfirst loan
46. Recognizing that poorly regulated non-bank financial institutions - especially insurance
companies - played a key role in precipitating the financial sector crisis, the Government took
several steps to improve the regulation and supervision of non-bank financial institutions, which
were supported by the Bank's first loan. Cabinet approvals for a new Insurance Act and
amendments to several laws to permit exchange of information between regulators were
obtained.  The Jamaican Cabinet approved the fornation of a new Financial Services
Commission (FSC) with regulatory and supervisory responsibilities over all non-bank financial
institutions -specifically insurance, securities, and pensions.  A new Insurance law that
addressed many of the weaknesses of the past and provided a sound basis for the future
development of the industry was drafted and presented to Parliament. The Govemment prepared
a "Green Paper" (and since drafted a "White Paper") on pension reforms and began the process
of consultation with stakeholders on reforms to the pension system. The Govemment committed
to make its best efforts to obtain Parliamentary approval of the above legislative measures. Since
then, the Pension Act has been drafted to facilitate the supervision of pension administration by
the FSC.
Actions in the non-bankfinancial institution sector to be supported by the Bank's proposed
second loan
47.   The proposed second loan supports several actions taken by the Govemment after the
approval of the first loan to further strengthen the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework
for the non-bank financial institution sector.
* The new Insurance Act has been enacted.
* The Financial Services Commission has been established and is functioning. The old
Securities Commission and Office of the Superintendent of Insurance have been closed and
the FSC has taken over responsibility of regulating and supervising participants in the
securities and insurance industry.
14



* The FSC has undertaken steps, in discussion with the Bank, to further strengthen its
institutional capacity. It has put in place a framework for risk based supervision and its staff
has been trained to conduct such supervision. A consultant hired by FSC is in the process of
designing the appropriate framework for financial solvency analysis.
Future reform agenda in the non-bankfinancial institutions' sector
48.   rhe Jamaican authorities have invested a lot of time, money and skills in updating the
regulatory and supervisory framework for insurance since the financial crisis.  The new
insurance law and regulations are of high quality and they successfully address internationally
accepted principles of insurance supervision. The law is highly detailed and sophisticated and
will require substantial effort on the part of the new supervisory authority to implement it. As
conceived, the FSC is likely to successfully and independently discharge its functions.
49.   Over time, and after gaining substantial experience with the FSC and its operations, the
Government will need to address certain areas to further strengthen insurance regulation and
supervision and move it further towards international best practice (see Annex VI for details).
As part of its ongoing program of strengthening regulation and supervision, the Govemment has
agreed to take the following actions to further strengthen the insurance sector's regulatory
framework:
* Although the FSC is structured to be largely independent, international best practice suggests
that its independence from political intervention can be further improved through
consultation with other boards or agencies and representatives of the insurance industry in
the appointment of at least one member of the FSC's Board.
*  Currently, the Insurance Act sets out the bases on which a license can be refused. Additional
powers should be granted to the supervisory authority to enable it to refuse a license on the
basis of an economic study, independent of the projected business plan, which addresses the
question of financial viability of the new entrant.
*  The rules regarding changes in control (acquisitions, transfer and amalgamation) of insurance
providers need to be harmonized with the relevant licensing requirements.
* Regulations that better define standards (i.e., international ratings) for selection of foreign re-
insurers, including the creation of a registry of admitted re-insurers that comply with such
standards need to be revised.
*  Regulations to monitor market conduct principles and to protect policyholders interests (fair
treatment) need to be issued.
C. Establishment of Credit Bureaus
50.   An important component of the infrastructure of a modern financial system is a
centralized credit bureau through which relevant information of debtors would be available to
financial institutions and other third parties, with adequate safeguards for protection of privacy.
Such a bureau permits financial institutions to better manage credit risk exposures to borrowers
as well as permitting the supervisor to better monitoring credit risk of supervised entities. A
centralized credit bureau does not yet exist in Jamaica. The Government (as well as the banking
sector participants) recognizes the importance of such an entity for the future growth and
15



development of the Jamaican financial market. As part of the actions to be supported by the
proposed second loan, the Government has drafted a Credit Reporting Act for the creation of
Credit Bureaus in Jamaica and submitted it for public consultation prior to its presentation to
Parliament. This draft Credit Reporting Act provides for the licensing by the Minister of Finance
of credit bureaus, with prior recommendation of the BOJ. It also spells out the conditions and
limits for the disclosure of information, the form and content of consumer information, as well as
the offenses and penalties for breaching of the law. Credit bureaus are to be considered as credit
institutions, thus subject to the scrutiny of the BOJ, the FSC, and the MOF; managers and
directors should comply with fit and proper provisions.
D.    The Government's Strategy to Manage Public Debt Arising from the Financial
Sector Crisis
51.   The Government recognized the critical role of a sound public debt management strategy
for the sustainability of the economy as a whole as well as for the sound functioning of the
financial sector. The Government laid out its overall public debt management strategy in the
April 2000 SMP. An integral part of this strategy is the approach to managing FINSAC debt
arising out of the financial sector crisis.
Actions supported by the Bank'sfirst loan
52.   The cornerstone of the Government's strategy to manage the financial sector crisis related
debt has been to explicitly recognize the financial cost of the crisis, managing FINSAC debt and
improving the liquidity of the financial sector through replacing illiquid FINSAC notes with
"performing" Treasury Bonds (Locally Registered Stock or LRS). As part of the Bank's first
loan, the Government committed to convert all outstanding FINSAC debt to LRS and service
this debt in cash effective April 1, 2001. The Government also obtained Cabinet approval for
restructuring a portion of the FINSAC debt held by other public sector agencies. It wrote off
about J$19.4 billion of debt held by the MOF. It also agreed on a restructuring plan for J$28.55
billion of FINSAC debt held by the BOJ (arising from the BOJ's provision of liquidity to banks
in distress during the crisis) -inclusive of interest accrued until March 2001. The Government
implemented all of its agreed upon actions by the agreed upon dates, except the one relating to
FINSAC debt at the BOJ.
53.   The principal reason for the delay in the resolution of the FINSAC debt at the BOJ
related to the BOJ's position that the commitment made by the Government in the first loan, if
not accompanied by other measures, would significantly impair the profitability of the BOJ in
the medium term (See Annex VII, which includes the 2001 audited balance sheet of the BOJ).
Concerns regarding profitability increased after the approval of the first loan due to the large
open market operations of the BOJ to mop up liquidity as a result of rapidly accumulating
external reserves. Therefore, despite the fact that the Government provided the Bank with a
resolution of Cabinet and a letter from the BOJ and MOF outlining a mechanism to address the
FINSAC bonds at the BOJ prior to the approval of the first loan, and although it authorized the
BOJ to offset a portion of FINSAC bonds against its deposits at the BOJ, this was not
implemented until recently. The Government, however, was keenly aware of the fact that the
issue needed to be resolved prior to Board consideration of the proposed second loan.
16



54.   In August 2002, the MOF and the BOJ reached agreement on a revised mechanism to
address the FINSAC debt at the BOJ and a broader plan to restore BOJ finances, which includes
the following actions:
* As per previous Cabinet approvals: (i) J$13 billion in FINSAC bonds has been offset against
MOF deposits at the BOJ; (ii) the balance principal amount of J$15.5 billion in FINSAC
bonds at the BOJ as of March 31 2001 along with J$3.2 billion of accrued interest up to
March 31, 2002, were converted into Government securities paying market interest rates.
This interest will be capitalized (fresh instruments at interest rates will be issued in lieu of
cash interest payment) until 2007/08.
* The BOJ had receivables on its books from the Government amounting to J$8.3 billion,
carrying below market rates of interest (see annex VII). This amount has been converted into
Government securities eaming market rates of interest. The interest on this instrument will
also be capitalized until 2007/08.
* The BOJ has J$2.2 billion of zero-coupon LRS on its books. The Government has agreed to
redeem these in cash prior to April 1, 2003.
* Any losses sustained by the BOJ in subsequent period will be settled, in accordance with the
Bank of Jamaica Act, by the issuance of LRS. The effective date for the issuance will be
April 1 of the year immediately following the calendar year in which the loss is sustained.
Interest will be paid on a semi-annual basis at the prevailing 6-month Treasury Bill rate plus
1.50 percentage points, capitalized until 2007/08.
55.   The above mechanism addresses the BOJ's concern regarding its profitability while
increasing transparency through recognition of debt already in BOJ's books. Conversion of all
low-yielding assets to securities paying market rates of interest would assist in bringing the BOJ
back to profitability (on an accrual basis) in the medium term, under the monetary policy regime
outlined in the SMP. Since after the restructuring all securities held by the BOJ consist of liquid
securities yielding market rates of interest, its ability to conduct sound monetary policy will not
be adversely affected. The proposed solution is a compromise reached between the MOF and the
BOJ on the issue of resolution of FINSAC debt at the BOJ, within the commitments made by the
Government to the Bank under the first loan. In essence, it converts quasi-fiscal losses to
explicit government debt. The proposed solution does have some adverse implications as it
contributes to further weakening the overall fiscal position, adds to the debt stock on an up-front
as well as an ongoing basis, and delays the achievement of sustainability in public debt
dynamics. The Bank, however, recognizes the constraints faced by the Government and
appreciates that there were only a few degrees of freedom within which the Government can
operate.
56.   Any resolution of the FINSAC debt at the BOJ would have had implications on three
major policy variables: (i) If the debt were to be retired or serviced in cash, in whole or in part,
the Government would have had to find additional resources from within an already extremely
tight fiscal program; (ii) If the debt were to be converted to securities paying market interest rates
and the debt service is done through issuance of fresh market-rate yielding Government
securities, the Government's stock of public debt - on a one-off and on an ongoing basis - would
have increased. The level of public debt to GDP ratio would be higher and the trend of its
decline would be less steep than earlier envisaged; and (iii) Relaxing monetary policy through
17



permitting larger, albeit moderate, depreciation (and potentially lower interest rates) would be
another way to improve BOJ profitability, while enhancing competitiveness and growth
potentials. However, this has adverse implications in terms of the Government's overall
macroeconomic program under the SMP as well as having negative impacts on its servicing of
foreign debt.  Under the constraints, therefore, the Government has chosen a resolution
mechanism that places emphasis on the first two items above - redemption of part of the debt in
cash and accruing the balance at market rates but temporarily capitalizing interest.
Actions to be supported by the Bank's proposed second loan
57.   Previously mentioned above, as a result of the actions supported under the first loan, with
the replacement of the FINSAC paper at the BOJ with Government securities, there is no
FINSAC debt outstanding in Jamaica -as reported in the Letter of Sector Development Policy
(Annex II). The Government has explicitly recognized the cost of the crisis by taking all
FINSAC debt on to its own books and is continuing to service all such debt held by the private
financial institutions in cash.
58.   The Government redeemed for cash J$7.6 billion in FINSAC/FIS bonds mostly held by
third parties other than NCB, Union Bank, and LOJ. All remaining FINSAC/FIS bonds were
replaced by LRS. The maturity structure of the debt was significantly lengthened in the
replacement process. In the case of Union Bank, 83 percent of the FINSAC debt had maturity
before 2006 as of March 31, 2001; however 100 percent of the bonds replaced by LRS have
maturity between 2006-2016 and 70 percent of the replaced bonds mature after year 2011. The
average interest rate on the earlier FINSAC bonds declined by one percentage point and it is now
equal to the Treasury bill rate, with most US bonds remaining at their original fixed rates. The
Government designed the swap of bonds at NCB (effective April 1, 2001) following a structure
consistent with the Government's goal of improving its debt management. This had a sizeable
impact due to the larger size of NCB, particularly since after replacement, 18 percent of bonds at
NCB mature by 2005 and 24 percent by 2008, while the remainder matures between 2011-2012.
The Bank's proposed second loan will support the continued servicing of this debt in cash.
59.   In addition to the restructuring of FINSAC's debt held by the BOJ (supported by the first
loan), the proposed second loan will support the following actions taken by the Government to
improve BOJ's profitability: (i) replacement of J$ 8.3 billion in advances and other receivables
from the Government (below market securities related to previous BOJ losses) with marketable
securities, (ii) commitment to redeem in cash J$2.2 billion in non-interest earning securities
during FY 2002/03, and (iii) commitment to settle any losses sustained by the BOJ in subsequent
periods through the issuance of marketable Government securities. Interest accrued on the
replacing securities will be capitalized with the issuance of Government securities until
FY2007/08.
E. The Government's Strategy to Manage Overall Public Debt
60.   As of March 31, 2002, the total non-financial public sector debt of the Government
(excluding BOJ and net of non-financial public sector holdings of FINSAC paper, LRS, and
other securities) amounted to J$485.5 billion (130.6 percent of GDP). Of this amount, domestic
18



debt (including FINSAC debt) amounted to J$290.8 billion or 78.2 percent of GDP. Extemal
debt accounted for J$194.7 billion or 52.4 percent of GDP20. As discussed in para. 10 and the
CAS Progress Report (CAS PR) that accompanies this loan, this level of debt as a percentage of
GDP remains very high, and has not declined as anticipated, even though it has stabilized over
the last two years. However, this is after accounting for additions of 22 percentage points above
that anticipated in the April 2000 SNP, reported in the May 2001 SNP (see paras. 64-66).
61.   The broad objectives of the Govemment's debt management strategy over the medium
term are to meet its annual borrowing requirements and reduce the debt service burden to
sustainable levels. The Government strategy to achieve these goals is to maintain a prudent debt
structure, further diversify the debt portfolio, increase reliance on market-determined instruments
for domestic debt issuance, promote and build a liquid and efficient market for govemment
securities, increase the transparency and predictability of primary market debt issuance, and
continue to implement policies leading to lower interest rates and faster GDP growth.
62.   The Govemment has been increasing the share of fixed rate debt in the domestic market,
which was less than 15 percent in FY2000/01, increased to 44 percent in 2001/2002, and is
expected to reach 60 percent in the medium term, more in line with intemational best practices.
It also continued to reorganize the domestic debt stock towards longer-term instruments by
replacing maturing Treasury Bills and other short-term debt securities with longer-term
instruments. During FY2001/02, the stock of outstanding T-Bills declined 39 percent and the
maturity profile of new LRS lengthened helped with the auction of the first 12-year LRS21. As a
result, at end FY2001/02, 15.5 percent of the new debt issued had a maturity of 10 years and
over compared with 14.3 percent at the end of FY2000/01. The Govemment's strategy to
replace higher cost domestic debt with relatively lower cost foreign debt (under only modest
depreciation of the Jamaican Dollar) is reflected in the increase in the share of extemal debt from
48.3 percent of GDP as of March 2001, to 52.4 percent of GDP at end-March 2002 (out of a total
debt to GDP ratio of 130.6 percent). This reflects bond issues in the international capital markets
as well as net inflows from IFIs, which are long-term funds at relatively lower rates. In response
to the effects of the September 11, 2001 attacks, and the flood damage caused by Hurricane
Michelle, the Bank provided US$75 million through the Emergency Economic Rehabilitation
Loan, and the IADB provided US$40 million through a social sector loan during the year.
63.   Management of this extremely high level of public debt will continue to remain a major
challenge going forward. The data indicates that the Government has had limited success thus
far in achieving planned reductions in public debt. The Govemment's debt to GDP ratio is
higher than envisaged in the April 2000 SNP and the rate of decline projected at present is
slower than that envisaged earlier. Unexpected extemal shocks, upward revisions in estimates of
liabilities, as well as the resolution of BOJ's deteriorating finances (beyond FINSAC debt held at
the BOJ) have all contributed to increases in public debt (see the CAS PR for details).
20 Of the domestic debt, outstanding FINSAC/FIS securities -the remaining balance at the BOJ net of the offset of
J$13 billion against Government liabilities at the BOJ- accounted for 4.2 percent of GDP.
21 About 74 percent of new LRS issued in FY 00/01 had maturities of 5 years and over, compared with 43.6 percent
of new issuance in the previous FY99/00.
19



64.   Public sector debt stabilized at around 132 percent of GDP in 2000/01. As reported in
the SMP completed in May 2001, the larger than projected level of debt was about 22 percentage
points of GDP above the April 2000 SMP estimates. Around 1 percentage point of this
difference was explained by lower growth and by the larger overall deficit of the non-financial
public sector than earlier projected. The remaining difference reflected (i) the assumption of
previously off-balance sheet items in the privatization process as debt and lower sale proceeds
than anticipated; (ii) valuation effects resulting in part from the larger than expected depreciation
of the Jamaican dollar; (iii) previously unforeseen debt that has been assumed and/or guaranteed
by the Government; (iv) higher than expected capitalized interest on Financial Sector Adjustment
Company (FINSAC) securities; and (v) the accounting treatment of FINSAC bonds held by the
Bank of Jamaica (since resolved). Of the total debt outstanding as of end-March 2002, 52
percent was external. Of domestic debt, around three quarters was at floating interest rates and
10 percent U.S. dollar linked (including FINSAC securities in U.S. dollars).
65.   The vulnerable fiscal situation in Jamaica is reflected by the high level of debt, weak
growth, high real interest rates, severe compression of non-interest expenditures and little scope
for raising already high taxes, large debt service obligations falling due over the next years, and a
dependence on continued access to international capital markets. A stabilization and reduction
of the debt to GDP ratio will require an ambitious and sustained adjustment effort, requiring
continued very high levels of primary surplus. But the situation will continue to be precarious in
the short-to-medium-term. As Annex C of the CAS PR shows, a fairly narrow range of
parameter values can result in either a sustained decline in the debt to GDP ratio, or a continuous
increase. Thus, if output were growing at 4 percent, real interest rates were 6 percent, and the
primary balance were 10 percent of GDP, the debt burden would be more than halved over ten
years, while a 2 percentage point deterioration in all these parameters would result in a failure to
reduce the debt burden.
66.   Inclusion of the effect of the BOJ resolution increases the accounting of the debt by 3
percentage points of GDP upfront (in 2002/03) and thereafter by about 1.5-2 percentage points of
GDP per year for the medium term (See Table 3, CAS PR). The upfront increase arises from
making explicit a quasi-fiscal loss of the BOJ prevailing for several years. The overall impact of
the BOJ resolution is to make the declining path more gradual, with a reduction in the revised
debt to GDP ratio from 130.6 percent in 2001/02 to 108.4 in 2005/06.22
67.   The high level of public debt poses a significant risk to the stability of the banking sector.
A large portion of commercial bank assets in Jamaica are Government bonds -obtained as a
result of FINSAC interventions as well as through banks' own investment activities. As long as
this debt is satisfactorily serviced, the banking sector is likely to remain sound. However, any
difficulties in debt service are likely to be transmitted rapidly to the banking sector, impair their
assets and hence place the capital adequacy and solvency of the sector at risk.23 It is important to
note that through strong efforts of the Government, the financial sector has been restored to
22 However, based on a symmetric treatment of BOJ losses of previous years (as noted in footnote 5 above), the debt
to GDP ratio declines from 135.2 percent in 2000/01 to 132 percent in 2001/02, and then is projected to decline to
108.4 percent in 2005106 (Table 3 in CAS PR).
23 The large share of Government bonds in total bank assets.(with a risk-weight of zero) enables higher risk-adjusted
capital ratios. However, in the event of deposit withdrawals, banks would have a limited capital cushion to
withstand risks.
20



health and regulation has largely brought up to international standards. The key weakness of the
banking sector, however, is its large exposure to Government debt. This exposure is likely to
remain high for quite some time, until sustained economic growth permits banks to build up
significant, good quality, loan assets. Hence, the Government's continued ability to service its
large debt is key to the soundness of the banking sector.
68.   Going forward, it is clear that high primary surpluses along with sound monetary and
exchange rate policy that secure adequate external competitiveness to support growth while
maintaining low inflation will need to continue to be maintained in addition to ensuring that no
additional liabilities are taken on by the Government in order to put the public debt stock on a
sustainable and declining path.
F. Regulations against Money Laundering
69.   Since 1997, among several critical regulatory improvements in Jamaica, tighter
procedures against money laundering have been introduced. Drug money laundering had been
declared a criminal offense by virtue of the Money Laundering Act (MLA) passed in 1996.
Supporting regulations were issued in 1997. Guidance Notes on Money Laundering, which are
intended to bring to the attention of financial institutions the minimum standards required of an
effective program to detect and deter money laundering, were also issued by the BOJ, in
consultation with the industry, in July 2000. These Notes, which are being periodically updated,
are comprehensive and set out policies and procedures as required under legislation and include
procedures for voluntary reporting and provide examples of suspicious transactions.
70.   Jamaica is a member of the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF), a regional
initiative to achieve the effective implementation of, and compliance with, the 40 Financial
Action Task Force (FATF) Recommendations and the 19 CFATF Recommendations. Under the
aegis of CFTAF, Jamaica undertook an evaluation of the implementation of the Kingston
Declaration of 1999 that pointed out two shortcomings of the Money Laundering Act: the failure
to criminalize non-drug money laundering and the omission to create an obligation on financial
institutions to report suspicious transactions. Both these omissions have since been addressed
through legislative amendments. Jamaica is not among the 19 non-cooperative countries or
territories in the international fight against money laundering identified by the FATF.24
71.   Jamaica is continuing its efforts to further improve financial sector transparency and has
initiated the process of compliance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1373 and 1377, by
initiating introduction of legislative amendments needed to address tax evasion and the financing
of terrorist activities. An Executive Order has been issued to designate remittance companies as
financial companies under the MLA. Also, under the MLA, financial institutions (including
insurance companies) are required to report any suspicious transactions including those above a
specific threshold. A Financial Crimes Unit (FCU) has been established, and now functions
under the Ministry of Finance, while liaising with the Directorate of Public Prosecutions to
investigate financial crimes. In addition, the BOJ and other financial sector regulators perform
supervisory roles in their respective industries. The FCU is receiving training as part of the CDB
24 Source: http:f/wwwl .oecd.org/fatf/NCCT en.htm
21



technical assistance program. Also a specialized Commercial Court has been created, which is
expected to expedite prosecution of civil cases against money launderers.
IV. EVALUATION OF THE FIRST BRDP ADJUSTMENT LOAN
72.   Several evaluations of the first BRDP Adjustment Loan were carried out, including a
review of the loan by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the loan circulated to the Board on December 21, 2001,25 a review of the ICR
by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), as well as a review of the loan undertaken as
part of the Bank's preparation and due diligence for the proposed second loan. The following is
a brief evaluation of the first loan, based on these reviews.
73.   A panel of QAG reviewers assessed the first phase of the BRDP in August 2001.
Overall, the panel found the quality at entry of this operation, as well as the eight quality
dimensions of the operation to be "Satisfactory" and the Bank Input and Processes to be "Highly
Satisfactory." The panel's view was that the program is likely to meet its development
objectives, despite considerable risks.  However, it expressed some concern about the
sustainability of the operation as the financing made available by the Bank was limited relative
to the large need of funds by the country, which would constrain the country's ability to
maneuver in the event of further domestic or external shocks. Still, the panel accepted the view
that on balance, not providing any support would probably have been worse. The panel's report
classified the operation as high-risk/high reward, commending several aspects of the loan
including: (i) the large degree of collaboration with the IMF at the operational level in designing
the macroeconomic elements of the program and with the IDB on sector aspects; (ii) adequate
timing, by providing support after a gap of three years as well as after ensuring the
Government's ownership of the program; and (iii) extensive assessment of underlying risks and
consequently, adequate choice of lending mechanism through a programmatic approach,
particularly given the Bank's disappointing past experience in the country.
74.   A detailed assessment of the Bank's first loan prepared as part of the ICR found that,
overall, the Bank's experience with the first loan was satisfactory. The loan supported actions
that had already been completed by the Government prior to Board consideration as well as
commitments of the Government to undertake several actions after Board approval. With the
notable exceptions of its inability to meet baseline scenario targets in the SMP regarding overall
public sector debt and the handling of FINSAC's debt at the BOJ, the Government had since
implemented all of its commitments to the Bank.
75.   The OED's evaluation of the ICR concluded that the Government had reached concrete
goals in all the major areas specified in the loan with actions that would be hard to reverse. The
OED rated the outcome of the project as "Satisfactory", with institutional development as
"Substantial" and a sustainability rating of "Likely".  The Bank's performance and the
Borrower's performance were rated as "Highly Satisfactory" and "Satisfactory", respectively.
The OED assessment lists several "lessons of broad applicability". First, a strong government
commitment and ownership of the program--particularly in publicizing the strategy to internal
and external constituencies--was critical to the success of its first phase. Second, the choice of
25 Report No. 23336.
22



single tranche programmatic loans, building on the lessons of previous Bank experience with
Jamaica, was key to restoring operational relations with the country by concentrating first on
compliance with attainable short-term objectives and avoiding locking the client into an overly
ambitious, politically sensitive, more rigid medium-term agenda. Third, close collaboration
between the Bank and other IFIs allowed the Bank's more conservative views to be incorporated
into the SMP and enabled the Bank to build on the work of the IDB.
76.   Despite the overall satisfactory experience, however, three specific areas supported by
the first loan faced unexpected difficulties, of which two - the sale of Union Bank and the issue
of FINSAC debt at the BOJ - have since been resolved. The third - relating to evolution of the
public debt - remains the major risk faced by the Government's BRDP and the Bank's loans in
support of the program.
Sale of Union Bank
77.   Prior to Board consideration of the first loan, the Government had provided the Bank
with a signed sale contract in which RBTT Holdings had agreed to-acquire Union Bank. Despite
the fact that there were certain - mostly fairly standard - conditions precedent stipulated in the
terms of the sale contract, the Bank considered the signed contract as adequate evidence of the
sale of Union Bank. However, the final transfer of ownership of UB from FINSAC to RBTT
was delayed until March 2001. This was mainly because the difference between prevailing
market interest rates and those on LRS being offered to RBTT in exchange for FINSAC bonds
lowered the valuation of the bank. Although the signed sale contract gave no room for
negotiation on the interest rates on LRS, a final decision on the maturity structure of LRS had not
yet been made, which enabled RBTT to reopen negotiations. The final resolution in March 2001
preserved the maturity structure originally proposed, which together with the lower interest rate
on the replacing LRS enabled the Government to substantially improve its debt service profile.
The Government, in turn, accepted a lower sale price for the bank and provided a letter
indicating its willingness to cash LRS to meet UB liquidity needs upon receipt of a three months
notice. Since March 2001, RBTT has been fully in charge of UB - although having been
effectively involved in its management since December 2000. The bank is in the process of
upgrading its information systems, staff capacity and skills, and has restarted fresh lending.
Restructuring of the FINSAC paper at the BOJ
78.   As discussed above, the Bank's first loan supported the Govemment's actions aimed at
restructuring FINSAC paper at the BOJ. The total amount of this paper as of March 31, 2001
was J$28.6 billion. The Govemment provided the Bank with an agreement signed by the MOF
as well as the BOJ indicating that J$13 billion of the FINSAC paper would be offset against
deposits of the Govemment held at the BOJ. In this regard, immediately thereafter, the
Govemment authorized the BOJ to use the J$13 billion of Govemment deposits for the offset.
For the balance of J$13.2 billion plus interest accrued until March 2001 (or J$15.6 billion), the
Govemment would issue special LRS to the BOJ. The interest rate on these special LRS would
be variable and computed in a manner to ensure that the BOJ did not incur cash losses. The
implementation of this agreement was, however, delayed until August 2002, while broadened in
scope. The principal reason for the delay in the resolution of the FINSAC debt at the BOJ
23



related to the BOJ's position that the commitment made by the Government in the first loan, if
not accompanied by other measures, would have significantly impair the profitability of the BOJ
in the medium term. The issue has since been resolved and a detailed discussion of the
resolution mechanism is included in paras. 54-56.
Evolution of public debt
79.   The Bank's first loan supported a commitment by the Government to ensure that its
overall public sector debt in Jamaican dollar terms would be consistent with the base case
scenario of the SMP. The objective of this commitment was to ensure that the growth in
Jamaica's overall public sector debt was initially arrested and that subsequently, the public debt
would be put on a declining and sustainable path. Despite an impressive policy effort, the
Jamaican economy remains highly vulnerable with a large debt overhang (about 131 percent of
GDP), which has reduced only fractionally since the formulation of the April 2000 SMP. Its
evolution, the reasons thereof, and implications have been discussed above in paras. 64-66.
Successful management of public debt is the most important challenge facing the Government.
V. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
80.   The last CAS for Jamaica (Report no. 21187-JM) was discussed by the Board
concurrently with the Bank's first BRDP loan on November 30, 2000. An update, which keeps
the Bank's strategy largely unchanged for the next twelve months, is being presented to the
Board concurrently with the proposed second loan. The CAS PR proposes that new Bank
lending be limited to the two projects already identified in the last CAS - of which the proposed
second BRDP loan is one -as well as one other project identified in the aftermath of September
11. The last CAS identified that the resolution of remaining financial sector problems is
necessary for restoring growth and thereby employment opportunities. By allocating resources
efficiently, well-functioning financial systems play a key role in the process of economic growth.
The financial crisis has significantly impaired the Jamaican financial sector's ability to play that
role. In Jamaica, moreover, the financial sector itself accounts for a significant fraction of GDP
(15 percent in 200.1), so a decline in value added originating in the financial sector has a major
impact on overall growth. The vision of the Government's strategy to restructure the financial
sector is that this will lead to greater competition, foster development of strong and well-
.capitalized financial institutions, and reduce the vulnerability of the system to future crises.
This, in conjunction with a tightened fiscal stance and a resultant decline in interest rates, is
expected to improve financial intermediation and enable the private sector to draw on a higher
share of the considerable domestic savings to fuel higher growth.
B.    Rationale for Continued Bank Adjustment Lending to the Financial Sector
81.   The last CAS envisaged that a base-case assistance program for Jamaica would involve
two adjustment loans to the financial sector of US$75 million each. The CAS PR provides an
update on the implementation of the CAS discussed in November 2002 and proposes a
continuation of the current strategy for an additional period of 12 months. The proposed lending
24



program of US$130 million includes the proposed second loan addressing the financial sector
crisis in Jamaica, which was the second operation included in the last CAS. There is strong
rationale for the proposed Bank assistance to the financial sector in Jamaica at this stage. First,
resolution of the financial sector crisis is essential if the Jamaican economy is to achieve
sustained economic growth in the future. Actions supported by the Bank's first loan went part of
the way towards resolution of the crisis. The proposed loan would assist in taking the process
near completion. Second, the Government has continued to strengthen its fiscal policy stance,
despite adverse circumstances.  IMF staff assessed the SMP to be broadly on track until
September 2001, although public finances have significantly worsened since then, largely as a
result of extemal shocks. The Govemment has responded by reaching agreement on a fresh one-
year Staff Monitored Program with the IMF covering FY2002/03. Third, the Govemment has
demonstrated its commitment to move the financial sector crisis resolution process to completion
through its actions taken prior to and since the approval of the first loan. While the financial
sector does face significant risks, a strong foundation has been laid for future development of the
sector. Fourth, the Bank's experience in the first BRDP loan has been satisfactory. With the
notable exceptions of the continued capitalization of interest on Government debt at the BOJ and
less than anticipated reduction in the overall public sector debt, the Govemment has met all of its
commitments under the first loan.
82.    It is important to recognize that restoration of solvency and soundness to the banking
system is a long-term goal that goes beyond a single operation. Past Bank experience in other
countries (for example, in Mexico) has shown that it is more realistic to support a program of
reforms with programmatic sector loans, involving a number of sequential operations that can be
approved based on the success of the previous ones26. Therefore, the Bank's strategy in the
financial sector in Jamaica has been to undertake a series of operations in a programmatic
context, each focusing on distinct policy measures and actions that, taken as a whole, would
contribute to the strengthening of the financial sector and supporting the Government's BRDP.
C. BRDP's Links to Poverty Reduction
83.    The Government's BRDP should have a strong impact on poverty reduction. It is
expected to create an environment for increasing long-term growth, reducing the probability of
occurrence of future financial crises. Well-managed and well-capitalized banks operating under
a sound regulatory and supervisory framework are likely to restart lending to the private sector,
thereby improving access of the private sector to the financial system27 2g. As the actions being
supported by the proposed loan are important steps in implementing the Government's BRDP,
they would also contribute to poverty reduction.
26 Before the first loan, the Bank's most recent experience with a programmatic lending approach was with the Bank
Restructuring Facility for Mexico (World Bank Report No. P7347 ME).
27 From April 2000 to February 2001, average commercial bank lending rates fell by 2.5 percentage points,
reflecting fiscal and monetary policy.
28 Although there are issues relating to the consistency of the data on which BOJ estimates real credit growth
(because of the purchase of NPLs by FINSAC, replaced with FINSAC bonds), the Bank's rough estimates, taking
account of this, is that real credit to the private sector has been increasing since early 2002.
25



84.   Improving the soundness of Jamaica's financial system will help sustain long-term
growth and reduce poverty. There is strong evidence of a causal link between financial
soundness and economic growth. Different measures of financial development, at a point in
time, help Vredict subsequent economic growth, even after account is taken of other determinants
of growth . In turn, the international experience clearly shows a positive effect of growth on
poverty reduction. A recent study (Dollar and Kraay, 2000) suggests that growth in per capita
GDP would result in an almost one-for-one increase in the income of the poor30.
85.   The Government's BRDP involves completing the resolution of the intervened financial
institutions affected by the financial crisis. A strong and solvent financial sector would have
enhanced capacity to perform its functions of mobilizing savings and allocating capital to
productive activities, at a time in which availability of financial services may become a major
determinant of economic growth. Sustained economic growth, in turn, is key to consolidating
recent gains in poverty reduction in Jamaica. As described above, the restructuring of intervened
institutions by FINSAC involves providing them with performing notes (i.e. negotiable
government securities that pay interest in cash). This would help reduce the liquidity constraints
faced by these institutions, and help create conditions for the eventual resumption of prudent
bank credit, which would help sustain growth.
86.   Reducing the risk of another financial crisis in Jamaica will imply big gains in poverty
reduction. The Government has significantly strengthened the legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework for the financial sector and continues to do so on an ongoing basis. The objective of
this effort is reducing the risk of a repeat of the financial sector crisis of the mid 1990s. Recent
international experience shows that financial crises entail huge fiscal costs that crowd out social
spending, with dramatic effects on poverty increases. Jamaica's public debt increased by 42.4
percent of GDP as a result of government interventions in the financial sector. Internationally,
the 1999 banking crisis in Indonesia cost the country about 50 percent of GDP3l; the Brazilian
crisis of 1994 cost about 13 percent of GDP; and the Mexican banking crisis cost the country
about 20 percent of GDP. To face these costs, governments must adjust other expenditures,
generally social expenditures and other investments, which comprise a large share of the budget,
with often devastating effects on the levels of poverty32 and future rates of growth and
competitiveness. Total debt service obligations in FY 2001/02 are estimated to account for 62
percent of total expenditures. The Government has committed to a macroeconomic program that
calls for large and sustained primary surpluses in the medium term in order to enable the debt
profile to be stable and declining. Such large surpluses and commitments to debt service reduce
the possibility of using these funds for social programs and thereby make gains in poverty
29 A review of evidence on the contribution of financial system development and growth is presented in Caprio and
Honohan (2000).
30 Dollar, David and Kraay Aart, "Growth is Good for the Poor", The World Bank, 2000. The positive impact of
growth on poverty reduction is supported by extensive research, including Gallup, John Luke; Radelet, Steven; and
Warner Andrew, "Economic Growth and the Income of the Poor", Harvard Institute for International Development,
November 1998; Roemer, Michael and Gugerty, Mary Kay, "Does Economic Growth Reduce Poverty?", Harvard
Institute for International Development, March 1997.
31 See The World Bank, Finance for Growth, December 20, 2000.
32 The 1982-82 Brazilian debt crisis caused incomes of the poor to decline by as much as 33 percent, well above the
decline in average income. See De Ferranti, David and Perry, Guillermo, Securing our Future in a Global Economy,
Chapter 5, p. 78.
26



reduction more difficult. A reduction in the risk of another banking crisis would, therefore, have
a significant payoff in terms of both avoiding the increase in the ranks of the poor caused by the
crisis and in liberating public funds for use in poverty reduction programs.
D. The Bank's Recent Emergency Assistance to Jamaica
87.   In support of the Government's program, the Bank approved the Emergency Economic
Rehabilitation Loan in the amount of US$75 million on December 20, 2001. The loan was
intended to support the Government in its furtherance of sound macroeconomic policy,
sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction in the aftermath of the economic shocks,
which threatened to derail reform. The loan would enable the Government to rebuild damaged
infrastructure, maintain spending in key social programs at a time of potential social unrest,
invest in public sector reforms, and revive the tourism industry while still tackling the country's
debt burden (see Report K2 P7493-JM).
E. Coordination with the IMF and the IDB
88.   As in the first loan, the Bank has continued to work closely with the IMF and the IDB in
order to ensure a coordinated approach to support the Government's efforts in restructuring the
financial sector. The Bank participated in IMF Article IV and SMP assessment missions during
2001 and 2002. The Bank and the IDB have worked closely on all aspects of the proposed
parallel financial sector operations of the two institutions. The IDB changed the original number
of tranches of its operation approved in September 2000 from two to three. It disbursed a second
tranche for US$40 million in March 2002 against compliance with roughly half the outstanding
conditions, while the third tranche of US$35 million is pending the completion of the remaining
actions originally supported by the loan. The CDB has approved a two-tranche loan for US$25
million in October 2000 and has similarly split its second tranche into two components, the first
of which has been disbursed. The actions being supported by the IDB and CDB loans are
consistent with and complementary to those being supported by the Bank.
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Loan Objectives and Description
89.   The Jamaican authorities. have requested Bank support for the Government's Bank
Restructuring and Debt Management Program (BRDP) described above. In November 2000, the
Bank provided a loan of US$75 million as the first of two loans in support of this program. The
proposed second loan was anticipated at the time of Board consideration of the first loan and will
support further actions of the Government in moving the resolution of the financial sector crisis
to completion. Disbursements under the proposed operation would help the Government in
retiring a portion of the debt currently being held at formerly intervened financial institutions that
have since been sold. The loan would thus assist in restructuring and improving the profile of
the Government's debt. The Bank's proposed loan would result in restructuring about 5 percent
of Government debt outstanding at formerly intervened financial institutions by replacing high-
cost domestic debt with cheaper, longer-maturity international debt. Bank resources would be
additional to the fiscal resources that the Government will have to mobilize to retire/service
27



FINSAC debt. The Borrower would be Jamaica with the Ministry of Finance and Planning being
the Executing Agency., The implementation of the bank restructuring/resolution program has
been carried out by FINSAC with the support of the MOF.
90.   The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed in full in a single tranche upon
effectiveness, expected before December 2002, in support of up-front reform measures that have
already been taken by the Jamaican authorities (Annex 1). The loan closing date would be
December 31, 2002.
B.    Commitments under the Proposed Loan
91.   Letter of Sector Development Policy. The authorities have submitted a Letter of Sector
Development Policy (Annex II) describing the Government's strategy for restructuring the
financial sector, strengthening supervision and regulation of the sector, and managing Jamaica's
public debt, both in the short and the long term.
92.   The proposed loan supports the following actions taken by the Government:
(i) Life of Jamaica: The Government has sold Life of Jamaica to a subsidiary of Barbados
Mutual Life Assurance Society.
(ii) National Commercial Bank: The Government sold NCB to AIC Limited of Barbados (a
subsidiary of AIC Limited of Canada).
(iii) Bank of Jamaica's Profitability: Beyond the actions supported by the Bank's first loan, the
Government replaced J$8.3 billion in advances and other receivables from the Government
(below market securities related to previous BOJ losses) with marketable securities. Interest
accrued on the replacing securities will be capitalized with the issuance of Govemment securities
until FY2007/08.
(iv) Portfolio of Non-Performing Loans: FINSAC has sold its portfolio of non-performing
loans to a subsidiary of Beal Bank of Texas.
(v) Portfolio of other assets including real estate: FINSAC/FIS has divested about 98 percent
of its total residential properties and 75 percent of total commercial properties as of the end-July
2002. It also sold other assets (including motor vehicles, artwork, fumiture & equipment etc.)
for J$3.9 billion.
(vi) Supervision and regulation of the financial sector: The BOJ was granted the necessary
powers to carry out consolidated supervision with greater intervention powers, including
extended jurisdiction over non-banking institutions integrated in banking groups. MOUs were
signed among interested supervisory agencies and a coordinating body, the Financial Regulatory
Council (FRC), chaired by the Govemor of the BOJ was created. The BOJ has issued a revised
"Ladder of Enforcement" to incorporate changes in 2001-2002. The legal amendments corrected
the shortcomings in the legal framework that prevented Jamaica from fully complying with the
BCPs. The BOJ is continuing the training program to enhance supervisors' skills in the weakest
areas of bank supervision, including consolidated supervision and market risk. Regarding
28



supervision of the non-banking sector, the new Insurance Act has been enacted and the Financial
Services Commission has been established and is functioning. The FSC has undertaken steps to
further strengthen its institutional capacity, including putting in place a framework for risk based
supervision and training its staff to conduct such supervision.
(vii) Establishment of credit bureaus: The Government has drafted a Bill of law for the
creation of credit bureaus in Jamaica, which was submitted for public consultation prior to its
presentation to Parliament.
(viii) Winding down of FINSAC. FINSAC's operations have ceased as of July 2002.
However, FINSAC remains as a legal entity to assist in the on-going liquidation processes.
(ix) Commitments regarding actions to be taken after Board consideration: The
Government has committed in its Letter of Sector Development Policy to amortize the J$2.2
billion in zero coupon bonds held by the BOJ before the end of FY2002/03. Also, it committed
to settle any losses sustained by the BOJ in subsequent periods through the issuance of
marketable Government securities, on which interest accrued is to be capitalized with the
issuance of Government securities until FY2007/08.
C.    Disbursements, Records and Auditing
93.   Loan disbursement would be made under simplified procedures for adjustment loans.
The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Deposit Account in US dollars in the
BOJ. Upon effectiveness, the Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal application against
which the Bank will disburse the entire loan proceeds in one tranche into the Deposit Account
for the Borrower's use. If after being deposited in the Deposit Account, the proceeds of the loan
are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items other than redemption of government bonds
that have replaced FINSAC bonds at formerly intervened financial institutions (para. 24), the
Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) deposit into.the Deposit Account an amount equal
to the amount of said payment, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the
Bank will cancel an equivalent amount of the loan.
94.   The Deposit Account shall be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The auditors shall submit a report not later than 3 months from the date of disbursement of the
loan verifying that Bank funds have been used for the purpose specified above.
D.    Impact, Benefits and Risks
95.   Social Impact. The proposed loan would have little social impact in the short-run. In
the medium and longer runs, however, the measures supported by this operation would have
important social implications as they would assist in the creation of an environment conducive to
the resumption of prudent lending to the private sector, with the associated benefits in terms of
output growth and employment generation. The ultimate objective of the restructuring/resolution
process supported by the proposed operation is a better functioning financial sector, able to
withstand external shocks, allocate financial savings more efficiently, and better able to lend to
the private sector. Given the low level of new real lending in Jamaica as a result of the financial
crisis, it is hoped that new lending would spur economic growth and thereby create more job
29



opportunities, an important benefit in a country with a high level of unemployment. A banking
system less vulnerable to crises will be better able to sustain growth and, therefore, deal with the
poverty agenda described in the CAS.
96.   Environmental Impact. The Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program to be
supported by the proposed loan is not expected to have any environmental impact. The loan is
ranked U for environmental purposes.
97.   Benefits. The proposed second loan would have several benefits. First, it would
contribute to moving the resolution of the financial crisis toward completion by supporting the
disposal of majority equity stakes in the last two remaining major financial institutions in
Government hands to foreign investors. Through its support for the Government's debt
management strategy, the loan would contribute to enabling the Government to continue its
efforts at servicing the liabilities generated during the crisis in cash. This, in turn, would support
the provision of greater liquidity to the banking system. Strong and well-capitalized financial
institutions with adequate liquidity would be in better position to resume prudent lending to the
private sector, with the attendant beneficial effects on growth, wider access, and employment.
Second, the Bank's loan would have a strong positive signaling impact through closure of the
crisis resolution agency upon the completion of its responsibilities. Third, the loan would
support the continued strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for the
financial sector in Jamaica. This is expected to reduce the vulnerability of the financial system
to future crises. It would also contribute to improving the environment for better lending
practices through the creation of credit bureaus. Fourth, it would support the Government's
program of debt management by contributing to the reduction of the stock of expensive domestic
debt. This would modestly ease the Government's fiscal burden and reduce the pressure on
domestic interest rates. Fifth, it is expected that the Bank's support together with that of the
other IFIs will increase confidence of the domestic and foreign private sector regarding the
Government's commitment to resolving the financial sector crisis and thereby contribute to
greater economic activity. Finally, resolution of the financial sector crisis is key if Jamaica is to
put its economy back on a sustained positive growth path. If the Government's program
supported by the proposed operation is successful, a major benefit would be resumption of
substantive economic growth and its consequent positive impacts in Jamaica.
98.   Risks. Both the Government's program as well as the Bank's operations in support of
the program face several significant risks. Recent exogenous shocks suffered by the economy
have also highlighted the risks faced by the program.  However, actions taken by the
Government since the beginning of the crisis and subsequent to the approval of first Bank loan
have simultaneously changed the nature of the risks and contributed to increased confidence that
risks are manageable. As was the case with the first loan, the Bank recognizes these risks and
that it is not realistically possible for the proposed operation to address all risks and mitigate
them completely. Despite the risks, the Bank believes it is worth supporting the Government's
program, in order to move the process of resolution of the financial sector crisis towards
completion and attempt to restart growth in Jamaica.
99.   Macroeconomic risks. Arguably the single biggest risk facing the program is that of
potential macroeconomic instability. The Government has thus far been largely successful in
stabilizing and lowering interest rates as well as generating primary surpluses broadly in line
30



with the targets set out in the SMP. These have enabled it to service its large stock of debt.
However, going forward, there is a risk that servicing the public debt could become much more
challenging. The events of September 11, 2001 in the US had major negative implications for
the Jamaican economy resulting in large revenue shortfalls. The economy has low capacity to
absorb more large exogenous shocks. The Government has already approached the IFIs for
emergency assistance after the events of September 11, 2001. Additional resources may be
harder to mobilize in the event of further difficulties. Government's tax collections are already
quite efficient in Jamaica and spending is already on an extremely tight leash. There is little
room for improvement in revenues or contraction in spending. If fresh exogenous events cause
further fiscal pressures, which are addressed through additional borrowings, it is unlikely that the
Government will be able to meet SMP targets in terms of putting its public debt on a sustainable
path.
100. Political risks. Elections are due in Jamaica by March 2003. While the Government has
thus far shown strong commitment to a credible macroeconomic program, it is not difficult to
visualize a scenario where political compulsions cause higher than planned public expenditure in
the short to medium term resulting in greater fiscal pressures. If financed through additional
debt, political pressures could place Jamaica's macroeconomic program at risk.
101.  Social risks. There is a risk that the extremely tight fiscal discipline required to make the
proposed program successful may not be sustainable in the medium term. Although the tight
discipline has not been the cause of the recent social tensions in Jamaica, such outcomes remain
a risk if rapid economic growth does not resume.
102. Financial sector risks. The Government's financial sector restructuring program has
been largely successful in placing the sector on a path to recovery. However, this has been
achieved by placing a large amount of Government debt in the sector, which has resulted in high
exposure of the sector to Government credit risk. Government bonds form the majority of bank
asset portfolios, both because of replacement of FINSAC debt with government bonds as well as
through their own investment operations. As long as the Government continues to service its
obligations, the banking sector is likely to remain relatively sound. However, if the Government
has difficulty servicing its debt, the quality of bank assets will almost certainly rapidly erode,
with concomitant adverse impact on banking system soundness. In the short to medium term,
the financial sector faces a significant risk of contagion from the Government's fiscal position.
103.  Regulatory risks. Although banking sector and non-bank financial institutions
regulation and supervision has been significantly strengthened, continuous vigilance will be
necessary to ensure that there are no lapses in supervision, which could expose the financial
system to additional risks. The FSC is a new entity and it must be provided with adequate
support and autonomy to ensure that it successfully performs its functions. Jamaica now has a
largely sound legal framework for the financial sector. It needs to ensure that implementation of
the framework is sound.
31



VII. RECOMMENDATION
104. I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
September 17, 2002
Attachments
32



ANNEx I
JAMAICA: PROPOSED SECOND BANK RESTRUCTURING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Issue        Objective  Actions of the Jamaican    Actions originally'proposed to be,  Actions of the Jamaican Government
Government supported       taken by the Goverment prior      supported under the second loan
under the first.loan       tothe second loan              _
Macro        Maintain   -   Maintenance of sound   -   Continued maintenance of   -  The Government has maintained sound
stability   sound           macroeconomic              sound macroeconomic policy    macroeconomnic framework consistent
economic       framework consistent with  framework consistent with      with policy objectives and programs
policy         policy objectives and      policy objectives and          outlined in the 2000 SMP and its
framework      programs in the SMP and    programs described in the      revisions, 2000 CAS, and Letter of Sector
Letter of Sector Policy.   SMP and comnmitments made      Policy dated October 19^, 2000. The
in the Letter of Sector Policy.  Government has been satisfactorily
implementing its macroeconomic
adjustment program as outlined in the
SMP as applicable for each period.
Reduction   -  Government has          -  Undertaking of periodic,   -   The Government has been undertaking
of public      committed to undertake     scheduled reviews of           periodic scheduled reviews of
sector debt    periodic, scheduled        performance as agreed under    performance as agreed under the 2000
reviews of performance as  SMP. Satisfactory              SMP and its revisions. In August 2002,
agreed under the SMP.      implementation of the          the Government entered into a new
-  Satisfactory               Govermment's program under     2002/03 SMP with the 1MF. This SMP
implementation of the      SMP. If macroeconomic         incorporates appropriate measures to
Government's               performance is off-track,      address the large macroeconomic shocks
macroeconomic              appropriate measures to be     that took place since the first SMP.
adjustment program as      agreed with the IMF to put it
outlined in the SMP.       back on track.
-  Government has          -  Govermment's public debt    -  Largely due to external shocks and to the
committed to ensure        reduction plan consistent with  upward revision of the 2000/01 debt data,
reduction of public sector  the base case scenario in the  the reduction of public sector debt in
debt in Jamaican dollar    SMP to be on track.           Jamaican dollar terms has not been
terms consistent with the                                 consistent with the base case scenario of
33



Issue        Objective   Actions of the Jaaican     Actions oriin fy proposed to be  Actions ofdithe Jaaican  overnment
.  .Governmnent supported  'taken by the (Government prior   supportediunder the second1oan
.under the first lan,          to- the second<loan,
base case scenario of the                                 the 2000 SMP. The Government has
SMP.                                                      committed to a revised macroeconomic
scenario reflected in the SMP approved in
July 2002.
Government has             Completion of assumption of    Government explicitly assumed, as part
committed to explicitly    FINSAC' s liabilities as public  of its domestic debt,, all FINSAC
assume all remaining       debt and continued satisfactory  liabilities outstanding as of March 31,
FINSAC liabilities         servicing in cash of the same.  2001. It has been making full interest
outstanding as of April                                   payments in cash on all assumed
2001 as part of domestic                                 liabilities to private financial institutions
public debt making full
interest payments in cash.
34



Is'sue      Objective   Actions of:the Jamaican  "'Actions originally'proposed to be  Actions of the Jamaican Government
Government supported      taken by the Government.prior     supported under the. second loan
under the first loan.     Io the second loan
FINSAC      Reduce debt -  Government stated that  -  FINSAC liabilities to be fixed  -  FINSAC did not incur additional
and pay        FINSAC will not incur     at the level stated in the    liabilities over and beyond those
interest in    additional liabilities over  Government's letter to the  identified in the 2000 SMP, as revised in
cash on        and beyond those stated in  Bank dated August 31, 2000.  December 2001.
remaining     the Government's letter. to
stock of       the Bank dated August 31,
debt.          2000.
-  Government has                                       -   Government used all funds from the first
committed to use Bank                                   loan (Loan No. 7036-JM) to reduce
funds to reduce the stock                               Government debt held by private
of FINSAC debt.                                         financial institutions. It has committed to
use funds from the proposed second loan
for the same purpose.
-  Cabinet approval has been -  Formalization of the write-
obtained for the write-off  offs/off-sets of FINSAC debt
of FINSAC debt owed to    through necessary legislative
the Ministry of Finance   actions (supplementary
amounting to J$19.4       budgets).
billion.
-  Cabinet approval has been                            -   In addition to the restructuring of
obtained for offsetting                                 FINSAC's debt held by the BOJ
J$13 billion of FINSAC                                  (supported by the first loan), the
debt held by the BOJ                                    Government has taken a broader
against the sterilized                                  approach to improve BOJ's profitability,
deposits of the                                         as reflected in the MOU between the
government at BOJ.                                      MOF and the BOJ regarding the
resolution of BOJ losses, signed on
-  Cabinet approval has been                                September 9, 2002. The MOU provides
obtained to restructure                                 that the Government: (i) has replaced J$
J$13.2 billion of FINSAC                                8.3 billion in advances and other
debt held by BOJ into cash __8_3_billion_in_advances_and_other
35



Issue:       Objective   kctonis of. the Jamaucan . Actions.originally proposed:to .be  Actions of the Jamaican Governinent
.  : .  - -  :;;Government supported  taken by the Govermnent prior    supported under- the second-loan
.under the first loan      tothe second loan.
interest paying                                       receivables from the Govemment (below
Govemrnment bonds. Rate                               market securities related to previous BOJ
of interest to be set at a                            losses) with marketable securities, (ii) has
level to ensure that BOJ                              committed to redeem J$2.2 billion in non-
does not incur cash losses                            interest eaming securities during FY 2002/03,
in any fiscal year.                                   and (iii) has committed to settle any losses
sustained by the BOJ in subsequent periods
through the issuance of Government
securities. Interest accrued on the replacing
securities will be capitalized with the issuance
of Government securities until FY2007/08.
-  Government has          -  FINSAC to be applying all
committed that FINSAC      proceeds from recoveries of
will use all proceeds from  NPLs and non-core assets, net
recoveries of NPLs and     of operating expenses, to
non-core assets, net of    reduce its outstanding
operating expenses, to     liabilities.
reduce its outstanding
liabilities.
-  FINSAC has provided all proceeds from
recoveries of NPLs and non-core assets,
net of operating expenses, to the
Govemment. The Government has used
these funds to service its bonds replacing
FINSAC liabilities.
Restructure  Restructure/ -  Union Bank (the second
banking      sell           largest domestic bank) has
sector       intervened     been sold.
banks.                                 -  FINSAC to have acquired     -  Government has sold its entire equity in
-  The following steps in the  more than 75 percent equity of  NCB to a private financial institution.
process of FINSAC          NCB.                           This is the largest domestic bank with a
36



Issue        Objective  Actions of the Jaai can    Actionsornginally proposed to be  Actions of the Jamaican Government
Government supported       taken-by theGoverment prior       supported under the second loan
_______________under the first loan    .;tcthe second loan_
acquiring an equity stake  -  A rehabilitation and/or     market share of 37 percent of total
of more than 75% in NCB    restructuring strategy for the  commercial bank assets.
have been completed: (i)   bank to be developed by the
The Board of NCB           new management team
approved the Schemes of    focusing on issues such as
Arrangements (the          improving shareholder value,
Schemes) to restructure    staff rationalization, cost
NCB's equity;              reductions, systems upgrading
(ii) Shareholders have     and product improvement.
been informed of the    -  NCB to be brought to the point
Schemes; (iii) The         of sale through the
Jamaican Supreme Court     restructuring process with the
issued an order directing  ultimate objective of resolving
NCB shareholders to meet   and selling NCB.
on November 8, 2000 to
consider, and vote on the
Schemes.
Government has
committed to complete the
additional legal and
corporate steps necessary
to ensure that FINSAC has
more than 75% equity of
NCB.
New management has
been appointed in NCB
including (i) Managing
Director (CEO), (ii)
General Manager,
Information Technology
(CIO), and (iii) General
Manager, Finance,
Planning and Risk
37



Issue       'Objective   Actions of the Jamaican    Actions originally"proposed to be  Actions of the Jamaican Government
Government supported=      taken by the Govermment prior     supported under the second loan
._______  _ _._ .under the firstiloan  to,,the.second;loan
Management (CFO).
-  A plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, to address NCB's
potential liquidity needs
prior to conversion of
FINSAC paper into cash-
yielding instruments and a
strategy to manage
liquidity subsequent to the
conversion has been
submitted.
-  A strategy, satisfactory to
the Bank, to manage NCB
during the time in which
NCB is under FINSAC's
or Government's control,
has been submitted.
-  Government has
committed to present a
plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, to restructure NCB
by March 31, 2001.
Sale of      Sale of non- -  A plan acceptable to the  FINSAC will continue       -  (i) Government has sold 75 percent of
FINSAC       core assets    Bank, for                  disposal of non-core assets   FIS's commercial real estate assets
non-core     held by        disposition/administration  with the objective of        administered by FINSAC and 98 percent
assets       FINSAC.        of FINSAC non-core         completing sale of entire     of FIS's residential real estate assets
assets has been submitted.  portfolio.                    administered by FINSAC (acquired in the
intervention process). (ii) Government
has closed FINSAC operations as of June
30, 2002. It has transferred FINSAC's
remaining asset administration and legal
responsibilities to FIS and has provided
the Bank with a satisfactory strategy for
38



lssue        Objective  Actions of the"aii'naican  'Actions originally pop     to be  Actions of.the Jan.acan Government-
Government supported.      taken by the Govermient prior     supported,under the second loan
._-_._.._.._.-  under the.first loan   to the second loan
management, disposal, and winding down
of these assets.
Divestment   Divestment  -  The diagnostic phase of  -  FINSAC will continue selling  -  Government has sold to a private
of FINSAC    of NPLs by     NPL portfolio analysis has  NPLs with the objective of   financial institution FINSAC's entire
Non-         FINSAC.        been completed.            disposing of the entire       NPL portfolio, which was acquired in the
performning             -   Advisors have been hired   portfolio.                    intervention process.
loan -                      to value and develop a
portfolio                   strategy for sale of the
NPL portfolio.
-  A plan acceptable to the
Bank, for disposition/
administration of NPLs
has been submitted.
Insurance    Restructure/ -  Legal opinion of       Take necessary actions to resolve -  Government has sold its entire equity in
Companies - sell           independent counsel has  LOJ in order to sell the entity.  LOJ to a private financial institution.
Life of      intervened     been obtained to the effect                              LOJ is the largest insurance company in
Jamaica     insurance       that FINSAC currently has                                the system with about 30 percent of total
companies.     more than 75 percent of                                   insurance assets.
the voting rights of LOJ.
-  LOJ's Board of Directors
has agreed that a
shareholders' meeting will
be convened wherein
authorization will be given
for FINSAC to obtain
more than 75 percent of
the equity of LOJ.
-  A plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, to address LOJ's
potential liquidity needs
prior to conversion of
FINSAC paper into cash-
39



DIIssue      Objective                                 its           ro              Actions of the Jmaican Government . X
Government supported       taken by the Government.prior     supported under the second loan
.__.__.__.under the first loan.     . to the second loan_
yielding instruments and
strategy to manage
liquidity subsequent to the
conversion has been
submitted.
-  A plan, satisfactory to the
Bank with a strategy to
manage LOJ during the
time in which LOJ is
under FINSAC's or
Government's control has
been submitted.
-  Government has
committed to ensure that
all necessary legal and
corporate steps are taken
so that FINSAC obtains
over 75% of the shares of
LOJ.
Legal!       Continue    -  Cabinet approval has been -  BOJ to have obtained greater  -  Legislation has been passed by the
regulatory/  strengthenin   obtained to enhance BOJ's  intervention powers.          Government's legislature providing BOJ
supervisory  g BOJ's       intervention powers to                                    greater independence and broader
framework   supervisory     deal early with financially                              intervention powers by:
for the      and            distressed institutions.                                 *   Granting BOJ the powers of
banking      enforcement                                                                temporary management of deposit
sector      capabilities                                                                taking financial institutions.
to ensure                                                                *  Granting the BOJ the legal and
safe and                                                                    admninistrative powers to impose
sound banks                                                                 penalties in cases of certain technical
in Jamaica.                                                                 breaches of statute by financial
Ensure                                                                      institutions.
40



Issue        Ohjective  Aticons of the Janaican"   Actions origina1y proposed tobe. :  Actions of the Jaiaican Government
Yer      n sby.the Government prior                         supported under the second loan
. ___.  __ under the first loan t     to the second loan
consolidated                                                            *  Upgrading the schedule of fines and
supervision                                                                penalties for non-compliance by
and                                                                        financial institutions.
supervision                                                             *  Transferring all the supervisory
of market                                                                  powers of the Minister of Finance
risk                                                                       and Planning to the BOJ, except the
powers to grant and revoke bank
licenses and the power to vest shares
of institutions.
-  Cabinet approval has been -  Amendment of BOJ Act to     *   Granting BOJ (i) extended
obtained to permit BOJ to  facilitate exchange of           jurisdiction over non-banking
share information on      information among                 financial institutions that are part of a
financial institutions with  supervisory agencies.          banking group, and (ii) the power to
other                                                       require the restructuring of a financial
regulatory/supervisory                                      group.
agencies.
-  Cabinet approval has been -  Financial Regulatory Council
obtained to establish a    established.               -  The Financial Regulatory Council,
Financial Regulatory                                     consisting of representatives of the Bank
Council, to coordinate                                   of Jamaica, the FSC, the MOF and the
activities of bank and non-                              Jamaica Deposit Insurance Corporation
bank supervisors.                                        was formally established in and it is
functioning satisfactorily, for purposes- of
coordinating the supervision of financial
institutions. It has also provided reports
to the Minister of Finance and Planning
on technical guidance provided to the
respective regulatory bodies.
-  BOJ has agreed to       -  Continued strengthening of
undertake independent      BOJ's supervisory capabilities. -  The BOJ completed an independent
assessment of Basle Core  Independent assessment of      assessment of BCP in 2001 finding most
Principles (BCP) no later  BCPs to have been completed   of the 25 principles fully or largely
41



Iss u'e     Objective   Actibs,of 'the Ja'maican   Actio'nsonIgiinaliy proposed to be ''Actions of.the Jamaicanovernment
Government supported      taken by the Government prior     supported under. the-second loan
.________ , ______ ,under,the, first.loan.    to the second- loan
than second quarter of     no later than second quarter of  compliant. Subsequently, it has adopted
2001. This followed its    2001.                        a plan and begun undertaling specific
self-assessment carried out                             training initiatives and capacity building
in 2000.                                                measures thereunder in supervision and
regulation of market risk exposure of
supervised entities towards achieving full
compliance with the BCP.
-  Revised capital adequacy
norms to have been put in  -  Legislation has been passed to include
place by the BOJ and          provisions dealing with consolidated
implemented by the banking    supervision and market risk. Guidelines
industry.                     for risk management, inclusive of market
risks, have been drafted by BOJ.
Regulations to ensure capital adequacy
(reflecting the amendments above) have
been drafted, and they are being
implemented by the market, and they will
shortly be signed into law. Those
Regulations will be subject to further
amendment to take into consideration
market risks not currently covered.
-  Cabinet approval has been -  Crisis intervention policy in
obtained for development   place.
and implementation of
crisis intervention policy.
- Government has
committed to make best
efforts to obtain
Parliamentary approval of
above measures.
-  BOJ has issued the
"Supervisory Ladder of                               -  BOJ, by amendments thereto in 2001 and
Enforcement" to take into                               2002, has updated its Supervisory Ladder
42



Issue       Objective   Actions of the Jamaican,  Actions originally: proposed to be  Actions of.the Jamaican G6overnment
.Government supported      taken by the Government prior    supported under the second loan.
.underthe first loan      to-the.second;loan
account 1997                                            of Enforcement".
amendments.
-  A Bill of law for the creation of credit
bureaus has been drafted by the
Government and submitted for public
consultation prior to its presentation to
.__________          _____________________________    P arliam ent.
Legal!      Strengthen   Cabinet approval has been  -  FSC established and      -  FSC has been established and it is
regulatory/  regulation  obtained for the            functioning.                  functioning satisfactorily.
supervisory  and         establishment of the
framework   supervision  Financial Services
for the non-  of non-bank  Commission.
bank sector  financial
institutions.  Cabinet approval has been  -  New Insurance Act enacted.  -  The new Insurance Act has been enacted
obtained for the new                                       and it is in line with international best
Insurance Act.                                            practices, as determined by the Bank.
Government has committed  -  Continued strengthening of  -  FSC has issued regulations governing
to make best efforts to obtain  non-bank regulatory and   FSC activities and has continued
legislative approval of above  supervisory capabilities.  strengthening its supervisory capacity
measures.                                                 through training under a plan satisfactory
to the Bank.
- FSC has taken the following steps to
strengthen supervision of non-bank
financial institutions:
*  Hired consultants for the design of
software for financial solvency
analysis;
*  Designed two risk-based modules
(one for general insurance
43



Issue       Objective   Actions of the-Jamaican    Actionsoriginially proposed to be  Actions of the Jamaican Goverinment
Government supported      taken by the-Government prior     supported under the second loan
._______ .___ _ under the first loan    to the second loan
supervision and the other for life
insurance supervision) and began
undertaking on-site supervision.
Government has committed to take the
following actions to further strengthen the
insurance sector's regulatory framework;
* Issue regulations to harmonize the
rules regarding changes in control
(acquisitions, transfer, and
amalgamation) of insurance providers
with the licensing requirements
therefor.
* Issue regulations to monitor market
conduct principles and protection of
policyholders' interests (fair
treatment).
* Introduce non-binding consultation
with other boards or agencies and
industry in the appointment of at least
one member of FSC's Board.
* Revise regulations to better define
standards (i.e., international ratings)
for selection of foreign re-insurers,
including the creation of a registry of
admitted re-insurers that comply with
said standards.
-FSC has provided the Bank with a
satisfactory time-bound plan to complete
training of its supervisory staff.
44



ANNEX U
LEz*SR OF SECTOR DEVELOPMELT PoLicy
Kingston, SeptemberlO 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
Prcsident
Thc World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensobn:
1. The Government of Jamaica has undcrtaken a series of actions to rcsolve the finmncial
sector crisis that occurred iu the mid-1990s as well as to contain and rcvcrse the adverse
debt dynamics that arose as a result of Government intcevention in the financial sector.
The Government has successfilUy restrctmucd all the financial institutions in which it had
intervened and the majority of sharcs beld by the Financial Sector Adjustment Company
Limited (F1NSAC) in these institutions have been divested. In addition, the bulk Of other
assets acquired in the process have been sold. FINSAC debt held by these institutions
and BOI has been rcsuuctured and assumed by the Central Government The agencies
with responsibility for supervising financial intcrmcdiaries in Jamaica have been
strengthened. Debt management is being donc in the context of a major 3scal cffoit-
aimed at generating a primary surplus as high as 10.5 percenL of GDP and an overall
deficit of no more than 4.4 percent of GDP in 2002/03.
2. This Lettcr of Development Policy describes Jamaica's current econouiic conditions and
provides details of the financial sector rceorms undcrtaken. la support of thcse initiatives,
the Government requests a second loan fhom the World Bank for the amount of TJSS 75
million This rcquest is in line with the Bank's expressed in(ention to provide up to
USS150 million in programmatic support, of which a loan of USS75 million was
provided in November 2000.
3. This support is intended for the fial resolution of the banicng crisis and the
improvement of fina=cial intermediation in Jamaica. Rcsumption of growth of rcul bank
credit to the private sector will assist in the recovcry of output growth and cmployment.
4. The Governmcnt is conrident that the broad set of macro-economic and financial sector
refonms that have been implemented have rcstored the financial sector to health and
reduced its vulncraility to future shocks, while containing the overal financial cost of
the crisis. At the setor level, the Govenment's bank restructuring sta2cgy is intended to
J; -,*                                                - m             -
'ic~  Z~gz~IM.
0             7                  -.~~~~'P
45J 



achieve four objectives: first, the complction of the restructuring and saWe of the
rmgaining FINSAC shares in the intervened financial insttutions as well as disposal of
other assets acquired by FINSAC as a result of the intavention; second, closurc of
FINSAC upon the satsfactory complebton of its respoMsibilitie signalling the end of the
financial sctor crisis resolution; third, resucuring and management of tho public debt
arising from thLe interention; and, fourth, continued stegthening and consolidating of
the legal, regulatory, supavisy, and cnforcement framework for the safe and sound
opaation of the financial sector. The Govcnmcnt bas achieved the first objective
through the sale, merger, or closure of all intervened banks and no-banmk finaneial
institutions, depeading on their viability. The Government does not have a majority stake
in any financial institution in Jamaica and the few remaining minority stakes are small
and in the process of disposal. Foreign investors have invested heavily in Jamaicas
financial insdtutions. All non-performing loans (NPLs) acquirod during the intervention
have been sold as well as the majority of the non-core assets. Responsibility for
managing and disposing of the remaining assets has passed from FINSAC to FIS. In
order to achieve the second objective, FINSAC ceased operations in July 2002, although
it will continue as a legal entity to enable it to complete certain legal formafities. In line
with the third objective, there arc no FINSAC bonds outstanding in Jamaica as of the date
of this lettr. All ENSAC bonds have been convertcd to Govenment obligations. are
tradeable, carry market rates of interst, and with the exception of bon'ds at the BOJ, are
being serviced in cash. The fourth objective has been acbieved through continuadion of
efforts at formulation and approval of necessary legislation and regulations to move
Jamaica's financial sector regulation closer to intemonal best practices. This will be a
continuing effort
1. Macroeconomic Framework
5. The Government's macroeconomic programme has evolved since the approval of the first
loan by the World Banl, largely in reaction to unepectod shocks such as the impact of
the terrorist strikes in the US on September I1*, 2001 on the Jamaican economy,
violence in Kingston in July 2001, and floods in the country in 2001 and 2002. These
shocks have had significant adverse inplications for the Govenrment's fiscal positioa.
The Govermnent acknowledges the support of the Bank in assisting Jamaica to cope with
these shocks through its Emergency Rehabilitation Loan approved last year. Despite
thesc shocks, however, the Govcmment has maintained a sound macroeconomic
framework consistent with policy objectives and programmes outlined in the original
SMP and its revisions and the Bank's CAS. The Govenment has been satisfactorily
inplementing its macroeconomic adjustrnent programme as outlined in the revised SMe.
The Government has been undertaking periodic scheduWed reviews of performance as
agreed with the Bank under the first loan. In August 2002, the Government entcred into a
new SMP with the 1MF. This revised SMP incorporates appropriate measares to address
the macroeconomic shocks described earlier.
6. During the first half of fiscal ycar 2001/02, the Jamaican economy was growing at a
annualised rate of 3 percent, reversing a trend of flat or no GDP growth over the previous
four fiscal years. IMF staff had assessed the SMP to be broadly on tack until September
2001, with all quantitative targets for the cnd of September 2001 met This was due
mainly to the strong recovery of agriculture from the previous year's drougbt a
46                                             2



resumption of bauxite and alumina productiou after disution in a processing plant in the
U.S. and posive, albeit lower, growth in touism. nlation was higher than envisafed, at
7Y2 percent, largely due to administraive increases in tranportation, prices in Junc. This,
however, represents tIe sixth consecutive ycar of single digit inflation. Net intemationl
reserves at the cad ofMarch 2002 were USSl.9 billion, sigificantly highr han the SWP
target, largely reflecting successful intemnational bond issues in May and December 2001,
and buoyant private capital inflows.
7. Howevcr the economy suffered four major shocks in 2001/02: (i) an outbreak of violence
in a section of Kingston in July; (CH) a significant reduction in visitor arivals caused by
the September 11, 2001 events in the US and the slowdown of the world economy; (iii)
major infrastuctu  damage and populadon dislocation as a result of wide scale flooding
in tw eastern paishes of the island associated wilh Hurricane Michelle dt have reduced
real GDP growth br he fiscal ycar as a whole to around I percent; and (iv) the clos   of
a bauxite efinery due to labour problems impacted GDP growth and revenue flows to the
Central Gornmet. Lower reveuesu higher expenditures on securry, tourism
promotion, and flood relief and rehabilitation m:ulted in an increase in the fiscal dcficit,
despite significant cutbacks in other expenditures.2 The Central Government's deficit
rose to 5.7 perccut of GDP corresponding to a primary surplus of around S percent of
GDP. Intest rates continued their downward trend, except for a bhef interruption ia
October when they were increased temporrily to facilitate orderly adjustments in the
exchange rate.
8. The main challenges facing the lamaican ecowmy continue to be bigh public sector debt
and low economic growth, which bas been further exacerbated by recent flooding in May
2002. The challenges will bc addressed by continuing fiscal consolidation. maintaining
macroeconomic stability and through rtiher structral reforms. Widhin tlis conte, the
Govermnment plans to reduce the Central Goveament's fiscal deficit by 1.3 pcrcentage
points of GDP in fiscal year 2002/03 to 4.4 percent of GDP, with a primary srplus of
around 10.5 perceat of GDP, to be achieved througb continued restaint in expenditures
and further strcgthening of tax administration to improve revenue collection. These
targets will be reviewed shortly in light of esimates of the additional spending required
for reconsmiction as a result of the May floods as well as the success of our efforts to
obtain intenadoonal assistaace in this respect. Exchange rate and monetary policies are
intended to promote growth through maintaining and, if possiblc, enhaning
competitiveness wbile prescrving single digit inLation. The targct for Nct International
Rcservcs is US$1.6 billion at the end of March 2003. Improvements in public sector
managnement will continue with the rcstuctring of the remaining (gecrally smaller)
public entezprises through reorganizations, mergers, transfers and privatisation.
9. ' The aim of the fiscal measures in the 2002103 programme is to reduce the Central
Govemment's deficit by 1.3 percentage points of GDP over the 2001/02 outur, to
'At end March 2002, the 12-month inflation was 7Y' percent. However, excluding the
twansportation price inerease i June the rAte would havc been around 6 percent
2 Higher expenditures also include larger wage expenditwes due to earlier tha anticipazed
wage settlements and higher mterest payments related to the Nationl Commercial Bank's
(NCB) holding of Financial SectorAdjustennt Company (F0ISAO socurities.
47                                          3



4.4 pect of GDP, consistet with a primary surplus of about 10.S pecent of GDP. To
achieve this, the Goverment intends to implement a scries of measure to merase
revenue collection. These include strcngthening of the compliancc machney, reduction
in prefercntal exemptons, and continuing eapenditure restraint However, &e
Govetnment is committed to at least maintain the real level of spending on social safety
ncts in 2002/03. The deficit or the rcst of the public sector, of just ove 1 per cent of GDP
in 2001102, will increase by I percentap point of GDP to 2 percent in 2002/03. This
resu1ts from the quasi-fiscal operations of the Bank of Jamaica (BO1), which is projected
to make a loss of 3 percent of GDP, up 1 percentage point on FY 2001102. These losses
asise largely from the sterilization of the impact of past accumulon of foreig reserves
on the money supply and a 16 percentage points reduction in the cash resev. Continued
emphasis wll be placed on impving the performance or public entises Where a
surplus of 0.6 percent of GDP is projected it 2002/03 (unchanged f*om last year). The
overaU public sector deficit wiII declila by about % percentage point to around
6K2 percent of GDP, with a primaty surplus of about 10.5 per cern of GDP. These Escal
targets will bc reviewed in light of additional recons uction sperding resulting from the
floods and the results of the Governmenras efforts to generate intemational support for
this spending.
10. Total pulibc sector debt is projected to decline from 129 picct of GDP at the end of
2001/02 to 124 pcrcent by the cnd of 2002/033. The Govemment will limit the approval
of projects under the deferred financing schemLe to an amount consistent,with an increase
ia public sector debt of JS2 billion (0.5 percent of GDP) umually. and minimi.ze the
issu5nce ofCentral Govaenent guarantees forborrowingbyfth public or pivate soctor.
11. Thc Govcment believcs that the above measures are consistat with gcneraing the
indicative prmary surplus and the overall deficit but themr are downside risks. First,
domestic interest rates may not decline as rapidly as assued and, second, the real GDP
growth projections may not bc realized. In either of these events, the Goveroment is
committed to takdng mneasures to contain deviations fiom targets, through fiuther cuts in
expenditures. Any additional outlays or shortfalls in revenues will also be offset by
expenditure cuts elsewhere.
12. The main objective of exchange rate policy is the maintenance of a credible and stable
market consistent with an intenationally competitive economy. In keepiag with these
objectives, the ROJ will allow thc exchange rate to reflect underlying market forces and
will continue to permit limited Qlcxibility in the rnae provided that exchange rate
movements do not appear destabilizing. In the context of furthsr fiscal consolidation, a
moderate lowering of interest rates should be possible without triggering an increase in
inflation. Accordingly, the BOJ has designed a monetary programme for 2002/03, whiO
ent3ils somc increase in not claims on the public sector by the banking system, and
continued lowering of 'interest rates to encourage faster growth Lower interest rates
would result in an 8 percent real expansion of credit to the private sector, which is
importat to maintain the momnentum of economic growth. Although the cash reserve and
3 Tbis, howcver, does not take into account the additional debt arising as a result of the
replaccment of FINSAC debt at BO] with Government bonds. This is cxpected to add abouL 4
percnt of GDP to the debt stock.
4
48



liquid asset requirements havc been reduced significantly in the recent past, the liquid
asset requirement remains olatively high at 27 pecen. The BOJ prposcs a fth
7 percentage points reducdon in the liquid assets ratio to 20 percent in 2002103 and the
cessation of remtuneation of prudential reserves on foreign cumrency deposits.
13. Significant progress has been made towards strengthening the supervisory framework for
bank-s and non-bank fnancial institutions Oth. amendments to the BOJ legislation to
supervise financial groups, and the establishment of the Financial Servcs Commission
(FSC), the cntty in charge of supervising non-bank fiacial institutions. FISAC has
successfully discharged its msndate to restore the liquidity and solvency of the oinancial
system, and that inshbition's operations were wound up in July 2002. Residual
responsibilities were handed over to the Financial inttudions Services Limited (FM.)
The Govemment has initiated the intoduction and enforcement of legislative
amendments to address tax evasion and any financing of terrorism activitics and
established a Financial Crimes Unit to investigatc and prosecute money-laundering
offeaces. Simplification of the tax system will be examined.
14. Progress has been madc in improving public sector management with the assistance of
the Bank and other intenational partncrs in recent ycars. The Govcrnment plas to
restucture the remaining (generally smaller) public enites tbrough reorganization,
mergers and transfes, privatisation, and closure. New legislation has been passed in
Parliament (the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act) to improve
niansparency and accountability of public entities.          I
15. In the current stable inflation environment, competitiveness will be enbanced by wage
raoderation and increased productivity. The recently established productivity centre
should play a useful role in assessing productivity developmcats.
16. The policies outlined in the SM? are expected to help lay the foundarons for the
medium-term achievement of higher growth, morc employment, and moderate inflation.
Growth is expected to accelcrate to 3-4 per cent a year on avcrage by 2005, as a result of
growth in tourism, as well as in mining, agriculture, and fmancial and other services.
Inflation can be contained at around S percent per year in the medium term while
strengthening competitiveness. The six-mouth Treasury Bill ratc is projected to decline
significantly from the current level (13.8 percent), while public sector primary surpluses
will be kept over 10 percent of GDP. Continued fiscal consolidation belped by faster
growth and lower nomiEal interest rates could shiR thc public sector ovcrall balance to a
surplus by 2005/06. Such an improvcment in the overall balance could lower the public
sector debt from around 129 percent of GDP at the end of 2001/02 to below 100 percent
of GDP by 2006/07, wbich in tun would support furthcr declines in real interest rates.
17. The Govemnment acknowledges that it hs been unable to mt its commitment made to
the Bank under the first loan of ensuring reduction of public sector debt in Jamaica dollar
terms consistent with the base case scenario of the original SMP. This has largely
occurred due to the impact of the unanticipated extenal shocks as well as additional
liabilities that had to be taken on by the Govenment including measures to address the
profitability of the BOJ. The Government is fully aware that the extremely largo public
4The Bank provided assistance through the Public Sector Modemization Project
S
49



sector debt poses the greatest challenge to macroeconomic maagement in Jamaica.
Continued satisfactory senncing of the debt is also critical to the soundness of the
financial sector. Focusing on the objective of reducing the debt over GDP raio and
improving the term structure of Jamaica!s public sector debt, will require a very
disciplined approach to containing public sector expenditures and impoving tax
collections in oTder to achieve-the fiscal targets set in the SMP. As part of this effort, the
Govermen intends to apply the resourc  obtined from the Bank loan to foster a more
rapid decline in the public sector domesiic debt. A clear aim of Govemment policy is a
sustained reduction in the public debt to GDP ratio.
2. Status of the Finandal Sector and Resolution of the Crisis
18. The liberalizadon of the financial system that occurred in the decade from ithe mid-I 980s
to the mia 1990s, was not accompanied by a sufficienly robust prudential aad
supervisory inbasbtcture, and a wide range of intdcately related financial institutions
emerged, with substatial lending to connected parties. Some fincial instiuions began
to show signs of liquidity problems in 1995. which were initially met through greater
resort to the overdafL facility of the BOJ. The Government addressed the financial sector
problems through the creation of FINSAC, chaging it with the responsibilities of
ntervention, rehabilitation, and divestumnt  The intervention, rehabilitaion, ad
divestment pbases of FINSACs operations have been completed. and FINSAC's
operations have ceased. The resolution of the crisis hsu come at a very bigh fiscal cost,
The total cost of the restructuing was estimated at 37 perccnt of GDP as of March 2000.
19. The Govenment recognizes the need for a long-term, comprehensive solution to address
the increasing debt burdcn associated with the FINSAC liabilitics and the lack of
liquidity faced by finamcial intermcdiarims. The Govcnmnent has undertaken the following
strategy to reduce FINSAC's debt:
(i) FI[SAC's debt to the Ccntral Government (the Ministry of Finance and Planning)
has been written off.
(ii) FINSAC's debt at the BOJ has been restrctured. JS13 billion of FINSAC debt at
the BOJ has been amortized by the Central Government. The outstanding balance of
JSIS.55 billion along with accrued interest up to December 2001 has been convcrted to
a 25-year Government bond paying market rates of interest Given the Government's
fiscal constraints, however, the interest on this debt to the BOJ will be accrued and
capitaized.  Iu this manner, thc financial soundness of the BOJ will not be
compromised.
(iii) Union B1nk of Jamaica Limnited (UBJ) has been sold to RBTI Holdings Ltd.
Proceeds fiom the sale have been used to reduce the stock of FINSAC debt held by UBJ
by an equivalent amount. Part of the proceeds from the Bank's first loan was also used
to redeem FINSAC bonds at UBI. The balance of the FrNSAC paper at UBJ has been
replaced with Govermment securities paying interest in cash.
(iv) National Commercial Bank Jamaica Limited (NCB) has been sold to AIC
(Barbados) Limited, a subsidiay of AIC Limited of Canada Proceeds from the sale
bave been used to reduce the stock of Govemment debt hold by NCB. Part of the
50



proceeds from the Bank's first loan was also used to redeem Government bonds at
NCB. The balance of the FINSAC paper at NCB has been replaced with Government
securitics paying interest in cash.
(v) Life of Jamaica Limited (LOJ) has been sold to Barbados Mulual Life Assurnce
Society. Proceeds frm the sale have been used to reduce the stock of Government debt
held by LOJ. The balance of the FINSAC paper a LOT has been replaced vwith
Government securities paying intcrest in cash.
(vi) The entire portfolio of NPLs acquired by FINSAC as a result of the intervendon has
been sold and the procceds used to reduce Government debt outstanding. A portion of
the NPLs.were rccovered direcly by FINSAC while the majority has been sold to Beal
Bank of Texas under an arrangament in which the Govement received an upiont
paynet and a share in recoveries made by the buyc. t is expected thal the NPLs will
yield approximately 22 cents per dollar of principal. The proceeds received tbus far
from the sale have been used towards reducing Government debt held by the fincial
institutioas and future receipts will be used in a similar manner.
(vii) FINSAC assumed responsLbility for many non-ore assets such as commercial and
residential propery, artwork, automobiles etc. during the intrrvention process. With the
exception of commrrcial real estate assets, almost the entire portfolio of other assets bas
heen sold. 75% of the commercial real cstate assets have been sold and ihe managemcnt
of the remaining assets has been transferred to FIS. The proceeds recived thus far fiom
the sale have becn used to   s reducing Government debt held by the fincial
institutions and future recipts will be used likewise.
(viii) The Government bas used all proceeds from World Bank, IDB, and CDB loans
supportng its financial sector resolution strategy to reduce the stock of FINSAC debt
Proceeds from the second loan being requestcd from the World Bank will be used to
retire, Govenmelnt debt held by the private financial institutions.
20. Through the steps outlined above, the Goverment has explicitly assumed all FINSAC
liabilities outstanding as of March 31, 2001 as part of domestic public debt. It has becn
making full interest paymcnts in cash on all assumcd liabilities to private financial
institutions. As committed to the Bank under lhe first loan. FINSAC did not inu
additional liabilities over and beyond those identified in the Government's lettcr to the
Bank in August 2000 and the revised SMP. Thec Govcrnment has used Bank funds from
the first loan and will use finds Erom the proposed second loan for reduction in stock of
Govermnent debt held.by financial institutions.
21. As discussed above, the Govemment has proposed a mechanism-to deal with the losses of
the BOJ. The proposal is in line with the commitments made to the Bank by the
Governent in the first loan. The main implications of this proposal are a one time
increase in the debt stock over and beyond that programmed thus far, ongoing additions
to the debt stock to the extent of,capitalized interest paymeots made to the BOJ wbich
could potentially slow down the ratc of decrease in thc debL/GDP ratio, and slow
achievement of cash profitability by the BOJ. However, the Government belicves that
7
51



this proposal clearly demonstrates its commitment to comprehensively deal with the
FINSAC debt as wetl as its wilinness to explicitly recognize the financial cost of the
crisis and address the assets of the BOJ. Ther is no FINSAC debt outstanding in Jamaia
as of the date of this letcr. The Govermnent's fiscal constaints dictate that, for the
medium team, servicing of this componcnt of the debt at the BOJ wiU have to be
capitalized. Finally, the Government has attcmpted to ensure that the financial soundCass
of the BOJ and its ability to implement sound monetary policy wuill not be cornpromised
by thc proposed resolution mechanism.
3. Strcngthening of Legal, Regulatory, and Supervisory Framework
A.    Bank Supervision
22. IlTe Govcnment has taken continuing actions over the past few yeas to enhance the
soundness of the bankdng system through improvement of.tho lcgal and reglatory
fiamework and the supervisory capabilities within the BOJ. Specific actions include: (i)
implementation of the amendments to the Icgslatiou enacted in 1997 in order to enhmce
the supervisors powers to takc certain prompt corrective measures, including the powcr
to require "Board Undtaldngs", isue Directions" and "Casc and l)esist Ordes" wbich
previously could only be done by the Ministe of Pinance; (ii) tightened prudential limits
on conaected lending; (iii) introduction of Basle capital requircments to be set at 10%/ of
risk-based assets (more conservative than the standard 8/e); (iv) a broadr, more xacting
definition of what constitutes "fit and propee" in rcspect to managers, directors and major
shareholders of banks; and (v) tightened investment limits and greater powers to allow
for the examination of accounts of holding companies.
23. In March 2002, Parliamcnt approved, and the Governor General assented to, several
amendments to the Banking Act, the Building Societies Act, the Financial Institutios
Act, and the Bank of Janaica Act to further enhancec the legal supervisory fmeworkl
Thus, (i) the power to assume temporary management was transfcrred from the Minister
to the BOJ, (ii) the BOJ was empowered to impose fines against supervised institutions
for the breach of statutes, (iii) the BOJ was granted extended jurisdiction over non-
banking insmtutions that are part of a banling grup, as well as the power to require the
restructuring of a financial group. The Minister of Finance has only retained the powers
to grant and revokc bank licenses and to vest shares of institutions determined to bc non-
viable by the BOJ.
24. The BOJ has undertaken a self-assessment of Jamaica's compliance with the Basic "Core
Pninciples" and followed it up with an independent review of such principles during
2001. The independent assessment concluded that Jamaica was largely compliant with
19 of the 25 Core Principles and compliance with another was achieved shortly after the
.assessment Principles where compliance is lacking inchde areas such as evaluation of
market risk, consolidated supervision of financial conglomcrates, and enhanced ability to
supervise related party transactions. The BOJ has taken a series of steps aimed at
strengthening its capabilities in these areas and moving it closer to compliance with the
Core Principles. These efforts will continue until Jamaica achieves compliance with all
the principles. The BOJ has issued "Moncy Laundering Guidclines" to be followed by
commencial banks, marchant banks, building socieies, cambios and bureau of eXcha=nges
(mclusive of credit unions operating such facilities) and comp}iance with them by the
industry is being monitored by BOJ. in addition, the Bank of Jamaica Act will be
5
5 2



amnended to intduce remittance compies among the institutions to comply with Anti-
Money Laudering (AML) zequirements. A task force was set up to analyse thfe kgal
framework for AML and to propose amendments to include Terrorist Fingace as a
criminal offence.
25. In ordcr to improve the supervisors ability to detect wealmesss early in the financial
cycle, the amthorities have strengtned their superios y processes. including on- and
off-site supavision. Qusrterly performance targcts have been developed for the bunkng
system and a Financial Stability Monitoriug Committee was cstablished to analyse.the
systemic risks in the system. The ongoing process for improving supervisory practices
includes the recenly updated 'Guide to Intervention of Supcrvised Financial Institutions"
(a ladder of enforcement that inchldes the amendments up to March 2002). The Guide
will be coitinuously updated to reflect changes in legislaion.
26. An inker-agency crisis Intervention poicy, which addresses the above issues and the
individual and collective roles of each of the regulators of the financial syste, was
completed in August 2000 and Cabinet approval has been obtained. In kping with Its
mndate to supervise all deposit takn institutions, the BOJ has also recently ben given
responsibility to oversee the operations of credit unions in Jamaica. The BOJ will
strengthen its capability to handle this now responsibility.
27. To flrther enhance financial sector supervision, the Govermment considers that the
coordination of the activities of the different supervisory agencies aad the timely sharing
of information among them is essential to rcduce the risks associated with the activities of
financial conglomerates. In this regard the BOJ, JDIC (Jamaica Deposit Insurance
Corporation), the FSC (a new non-baoIk supervisory entity-Financial Services
Commission) and the Ministry of Fine and Planning have strengthened foma inter-
institutional mechanisms, including the siaturc of Memorandum of Understandings
(MOUs) among them though the estabishmen of a Financial Regulatory Council for
consultation and the systematic sharing of relevant information, which belp to ense the
consistency of prudential norms, facilitate consolidated supervision, mininize the risks of
contagion, prevent regulatory arbitrage, and facilitate timely discussion on policy for the
financial sector. ITe Financial Regulatory Council meets on a monthly basis and issues a
semi-annual report to the Minister of Finnce on technical guidance provided to the
respective regulatory bodies.
28. The Fiacial Regulatory Council considers the following issucs a priority: i) the
hmbmonization of risk-based capital adequacy requirements for dually liccnsed entities; ii)
the review of regulation and supervision of umit trusts, mutual hin 4, and similar products
to ensure a level playing field and adequacy of investor protection; iii) the adequacy of
reporing requirements in respect pf financial companies and the development of specific
rula relating to transactions within a fincial group, dividends and other distnbutioDs,
and the ownership and management of the group and iv) the determninaion of the lead
regulator and the coordination of exanations for dually licensed eantities.
29. One of the primary causes of the crsis of 1996/1997 was the co-mingling of financial and
non-financial activities within the same corporate group. Thc Goveunnent cnacted
logialation to deal with this potential problem suh as tightening of investmcnt limits and
restrictions on connected lending. Additional enhancements to limit the risk of contagion
9
53



from non-banking businesses to the banks cluctde i) the legally binding BO] Guidance
Note on TScparation of Deposit Taldng Activity from Managed Fund Activity." wbich iu
now being implaented by the industry, ii) empowering the BOJ to examine and inspVct
the books of not only holding companies and subsidiaries of a deposit-taking licese but
also other mcmbers of the group; iii) empowring the BOJ to require Lhe retuctutdig of
a financial group; and iv) assess that shareholders, directors, and maagers of holding
companies meet the fit and proper ctitecia. To furfter strengthLen financial groups,
regulations will be issued under the BOJ Act to address consolidaton and consolidatd
supervsion. including capital adequacy and credit limits on a consolidated basis.
I.    Non-Bank Supervsbon
30. In the conte  of strengthening fnancial sector reform, the Government has created anew
non-bank supervisory authority, the FSC- A new Ins ce Act has been enacted by
Parliament. The FSC will inplement the new Insurance Act and will be responsiblc for
the licensig, regulation and supervision of entities deng in securities, collecive
invesmcnt funds (e.g. unit tusts and mutual fuids); invesment advisors, the insurance
industry (companies, brokers, agents and sales persons) nd pTivate pension finds. The
Govemment undastands the importnce of having an autonomous supevisoy entity.
Tterefore, the law ensures that the entity has adequate enforcement powers. including the
power to levy fines, and interention authority. In the interest of greater transparcncy and
accountabilty, public comment wiU bc sought prior to the enactment of new rulcs,
regulations, guidelines or amendmcnts. Fees and commissions will be set such Ihad after
an initial start-up period the entity wil become selflfndiug,
31. The FSC is functioning satisfactorily and all senior level appointmcnts of the PSC,
including the CEO, have been made. The FSC has developed its organizational chart, and
plan of its future operational stratcgy, which it is in the process of implementing. The
FSC has begun issuing necessary regulations for the industry and continues to strengthen
its supervisory capacity trough training programs. Specifically, the FSC has taken the
following steps to strengthcen supervsion; (i) it has hired consultants for the design of
filing software for fincial solvency analysis; and (ii) it has designed two risk-based
modules for both general and lifc insurance supervision and begaa on-site supavision
following training reports.
32. While the Goverment is confident that the new Iuance Act is in line with much of
intemational best practice, it recognizes that thr wc areas where further improvemcnt
can be made. The priority of the Government thus fir has been to put in place a sound
basic framcwork for reguation and supervision of the financial sector. As the sector
stabilizes 4rd begins to grow, the Governncnt wiU implement fsrter improvements in
the regulatory framework. Future strengthening will include. (i) issuing regulations lo
harmonize the rules regarding changes in control (acquisitions. transfer, and
amalgamaion) requirements; (ii) issuing regulations to monitor market conduct
prindples and protection of policyholders' interests (fair trcatment); (i introducing non-
binding consultation with oiher boards or agencies and industmry Civ) consulting with
other superavisory boards orrelevant governmnnt agenLcies andindustry associations inthc
appointment of one member to the FSC Board to promote transparency beyond the
publication of commissioners' names in the Gazeae; and (v) revising regulations to bctter
10
54



defLnc standards for selecton of foreig inswers including the creation of a rogisty of
admitted reimuers that comply with said sandards.
C.    Creation of Credit B3uresus
33. Ihc Goverment recognizes that a  impotant component of thc lna      e ot a
moder   financial system  is a centized cr    registry trough which releant
informaon of debtors would be availal, to finaci isitdtons and other third paie
with adequate safeguards for protection of pnvacy. Such a registry would pemit
financial insttutions to better manage credit risk expour to borrwr as well as pemit
the superisor to better monitor credit risk of supervised entities. Since a cestralizod
credit resy does not yet exist in Jamaica, the Govemnment has decided to undtke the
necs=y legislative actions to create the legal and reguatory environmcnt for lthe private
sector to be able to establsh a credit registry in Jmaica. A Bill of law for the creaton of
Credit Baus has been drafted and has been submitted for public consultation prior to
submission to the legislaturo. The Govenmet will use its best efforts to obtain
legislative approval ofthe law.
D.      Condusion
34. Jamaica has made signficant progress in addrssing the issues resulting from the
financial sector criis of the mid 1990s and in initiating stuctural reforOis of the sector.
As described in this letter, the Govemment has brought the resolution of the cnsis to near
completion. Only minor, and largely administratve, actions remain. The Government is
committed to easuring further souWd developmen of the financial sector and bclicves that
the policies to be implemented during the next two yas should assist in this process.
The World Banks assistance will be beneficial to the success of the Government's
program.
Sincerely yours,
minisJDavies
5inc and Planning
11
55



56



ANNEX III
STATUS REPORT ON THE LIQUIDATION OF FINSAC
As at August 9, 2002
FINSAC's exit strategyl
The Financial Sector Adjustment Company (FINSAC), which was incorporated on January 29,
1997, has successfully worked towards achieving its mandate of resolving the problems of
solvency and liquidity which occurred within the financial sector during the crisis of the 1990s
and has provided for a comprehensive and sustainable rehabilitation of the sector.
The agency employed a three-phased strategic plan, which included:
1. Intervention phase;
2. Rehabilitation phase;
3. Divestment phase;
It has completed the intervention and rehabilitation phases and is now in the final segment of the
divestment phase. All major shareholding in financial institutions such as NCB and LOJ have
been divested, and arrangements have been made to divest the minority shares in Dyoll and
Island Life before the end of this calendar year. As a result, the primary focus is now on the
winding down activities (see below) and the divestment of the remaining real estate portfolio.
It should be noted however that FINSAC has been forced to deal with a number of issues -
"matters arising" -as a consequence of the diverse nature of the subsidiaries of the financial
institutions that FINSAC acquired. There were also legal proceedings associated with some of
the interventions in some instances. These and other issues must be addressed despite the
pending closure of FINSAC.
To facilitate FINSAC's winding down, all its residual activities will be handled through
Financial Institutions Services (FIS).
These activities will mainly consist of:
* Processing and finalizing claims arising under the representations and warranties of the
various Share Sale Agreements FINSAC entered into;
* Monitoring the performance of covenants made under some of the Sale Agreements (for
financial institutions), specifically those pertaining to the payment of the purchase price
of entities, FINSAC sold;
* Resolving residual issues relating to insurance, asset disposal -the real estate portfolio
and the recently sold NPL portfolio;
This section replicates a letter provided by the Government on July 26, 2002 describing FINSAC's exit strategy.
57



* Providing full property management services for all properties in the FINSAC portfolio
(remaining 50 percent of the commercial properties need to be sold);
* Managing and maintaining accounting processes for transactions relating to all operating
entities (in which FINSAC has interest) especially those properties managed by Jamaica
Mutual Properties Limited & LOJ Property Management Limited;
* Handling & monitoring complex liquidation issues for Mutual Life Group, Crown Eagle
Group, NCB Group, & Corporate Group;
* Liaising with brokers and the continuation of remaining sale activities; and
* Monitoring debt collection and reconciliation.
To facilitate the above, the following initiatives have been undertaken:
1. FINSAC is no longer an operating entity and a small staff complement has been
retained on contract with FIS to deal with FINSAC-related matters.
2. All properties and subsidiary company acquisitions from NCB pursuant to the
scheme of arrangements and LOJ pursuant to the sale to the Barbados Mutual
Consortium have been done through FIS. These properties and companies are
owned by FIS.
3. FIS has established a focused liquidation team to work assiduously on the
winding up of the numerous subsidiaries and affiliated companies acquired by
FINSAC.
58



Table I ClassiTncation of Companies as at August 9, 2002
kIR--i                  "Ti-TUJ '  ' 'DffS1?0AlD/MANAGfEM19I         T    F'A-             CQI$          - T
ACTIT:                                                                -                              -.,
FINSAC had external
assistance through an
Strategies for winding  international consulting
down have been      company to undertake the
determined based on  project of winding
the level of        down/liquidate 172
complexity and      companies. Now FINSAC
nature of the issues  is proceeding as follows:
outstanding.                                 o  With the sale of NCB &
Category 1: Completed       LOJ, Finsac's interest in the
While the exercise for There are 72 companies in  relevant companies "fell
some of the pending  this category, these have  away".
companies should not either now been dissolved
exceed 3 months, the  or the responsibility for
majority of cases are  their dissolution lies with
not expected to be  the intervened entity.
completed in less than                       o These companies have no                   Awaiting confirmation from
12 months.          Category 2: Strike off      assets or liabilities; strike  September 2002  the Registrar of Companies
hnitiated/ pending-2        off has been initiated.
companies
o  Have no substantive issues;  Ongoing     All documentations have been
Category 3: Liquidation     planned to be liquidated by              completed and reviewed.
recomnended-45              an in-house Liquidator.                  FINSAC's board approved
companies                                                            the appointment of Claudette
Booth as liquidator for these
companies. The appointment
of the liquidator is now
59



AREAS OF                STATUS            DISPOSAL/MANAGEMENT TIMEFRAME                        COWMMENTS
ACTIVITY:                                          STRATEGY
LIQUIDATION                                                                                       _
pending.
In order to expedite the
liquidation process FINSAC
is considering a proposal
presented for the transfer of
the assets/liabilities from
smaller companies into a
holding/parent company,
strike those companies off and
liquidate the holding
company. This will mean
there will be fewer companies
to take through the longer
liquidation process.
Given the relationship with
FINSAC and FIS, it has been
*  These are companies with   Ongoing         decided that the actual legal
lawsuits and unresolved                   transfer is not necessary, but
Category 4: Assignment/      administrative issues; as                 FIS will continue to treat with
Transfer of Interest to      well as those having                      these operationally.
FIS-29 companies             properties in the process of
sale; but the sales are                   These companies are
expected to be protracted.                currently in Receivership.
Winding-up of 8 of these
o  Companies in which         Ongoing         companies-that-are in the
FINSAC has shares or                      Corporate Group is dependent
Category 5: Divestment       interest. Effort is being                 on resolution of a major
of Shares/ Interest En       made to sell these.                       lawsuit.
I progress-24 companies  I      _I_               _
60



CLASSIFICATION OF COMPANIES AS AT AUGUST 2002
CATEGORY I                 CATEGORY2                         CATEGORY3                            CATEGORY4                        CATEGORY 5
Completed              Strike Off Initiatedt         Liquidation Recommended                Assignment/Transfer of               Divestment of
Pending                                                             Interest to FIS                Shares/lnterest In
Recommended                    Progress/Pending
UNION BANK                    MUTUAL LIFE              CORPORATE GROUP (1)                       CALDON GROUP (1)                 CORPORATE GROUP (10)
GROUP (5)                     GROUP (1)                Capital Assurance Bldg. Society           Caldon Finance Merchant Bank     Jamaica Observer Limited
Citizens Assets Mngmnt Ltd.   Jamaica Housing Dev*                                               Ltd.                             Levart linited
IEFCOL Leasing                                              CROWNE EAGLE GROUP (7)                                                Continental Imnport/Export
Jamnaica Citizens Inves. Ltd  UNION BANK               Coolit Limited                                    CORPORATE                Corporate Money Market
Odessa Services Ltd           GROUP (1)                Crown Eagle Life Insurance                          GROUP (5)              Formidable Uimited
World Trade Services Corp     Union Bank Holdings      Eagle Foundation for Enterprise           Corporate Group Limited          CMB Investments Limited
Ltd                     Eagle Nominees limited                     Corporate Life Insurance         WB Finance & Inv.
Fairfield Developments                     Corporate Merchant Bank          Kelner Ltmited
DYOLL GROUP (9)                                        Forte Belle Management                    Friends Group Ilmited            Klienworth limited
Caynan Financial Services                              Trmupton Lniited                          WSLB                             Tamron Limited
lirnited
Caymnan Inswuance Centre                               EAGLE MERCHANT BANK GROUP (5)              CROWNE EAGLE GROUP (8)            CROWNE EAGLE GROUP
Caribbean National Group                               Crown Eagle Hotels Ulnited                 Ciboney Group Limited                        (21
lirnited                                               Eagle Commercial Bank                      Ciboney Hotel Developers        Ebony View lUimted
Dyoll/Wataru Coffee Comnpany                           Eagle Permanent Building Society           Ciboney Hotels Uniited          Luxury Resorts Intemational
Lniited                                                Eagle Trust Co. Ltd.                       Ciboney Proprietors United
Dyoll life Insurance Company                           West Coast Holdings LCd Exeter Holdings Uriited                                 DYOLL GROUP (1)
Lirmited                                                                                          Leisure Operators Liniited      Dyoll Group lirnited
Dyoll Caribbran Fritnacial                                      HORIZON GROUP (2)                 LAixury Resorts Enterprises
Services Limited                                       Horizon Building Society                   Number Sixty Ulmited             EAGLE HOLDINGS GROUP
National Building Society of                           Horizon Life lnimited 
Caymran Ltd.                                                  ISLAND LIFE GROUP (1)                    DYOLL GROUP (2)            Jamaica Fruit & Shipping
New Seville Development                                Island Victoria Bank Urnited               Buck Security Merchant Bank     Comnpany limited
linited                                                                                           Limiited (In L'dation)
Dyoll Insurance Co. Ltd.                                      MUTUAL LIFE GROUP (6)               Caribbean Trust and Merchant      ISLAND LIFE GROUP (1)
Comnercial & Residential                   Bank Ltd (in L'dation)          Island Life Insurance Company
Development Ltd.                                                            Limited
LO] GROUP (15)                                         Dural Developnent                          EAGLE HOLDINGS GROUP
Atlantic Southern Insurance                            Halsbury Ltd                                            10                  EAGLE MERCHANT BANK
Aviation Service                                       ConsOIt Manufacturing                      Cinchona Heights Limited                  GROUP (2)
Global Bahamas Holdings                                Mutual Services (C'bean)                   Eagle Holdings & Investment      Eagle Investments & Securities
Global Life Assurance Co                               866 Realty Inc.                            LAd.                             EBH Investment Corporation
Global life Assurance                                                                             Hillhaven limited                (USA)
Bahamas                                                           NCB GROUP (13)                  Old England Coffee Dev.
Health Corporation Jamaica                             Carp Corporation limited                                                          MUTUAL LIFE
Hitek Software Engineering                             Cherry Brook Limited                        EAGLE MERCHANT BANK                      GROUP (7
Inter-American Marketing                               Club Jaiaica Beach Resort                           GROUP (1)              Int'l Hotel (O'seas) Ltd.
Corporation                                            Computer Services & Prog.                  Eagle Merchant Bank Ltd.         Int'l Hotel (SL Lucia) Ltd
Interational Investments LAd                           Egnaro limited                                                             Ja. Hotel Properties Assoc
International Systems and                              Epsom Holding Umited                               FIDELITY (1)            Ja. Hotel Properties Inc.
Service Corp.                                          Glen Abbey Umited                          Fidelity Fiance Merchant Bank    Jamaica Hotel Ltd.
Lested Development Ulmited                             Mutual Securities Umited                   Ltd (In Uquidadon)              Jamaica Mutual Inc.
LOJ Pooled Investmnent Funds                           Mutual Security Trust & Merchant Bank                                       Mutual Turks & Caicos
Ltd.                                                   NCB Group Limited                              HORIZON GROUP (1)
LOJ Property Management                                NCB Trut & Merchant Bank                   Horizon Merchant Bank
Limuted                                                Noxid limited (formerly Kayrich)           (In liquidation)
SL Andrew Developers Lid.                              Pembroke Hotel Enterprises Ltd
Ufe of Jamaica Unmited                                                                            IDEPENDENT MERCHANT
UNION BANK GROUP (4)                                BANKS (Z)
Citizens Building Society                  Intercontinental Merchant Bank
Citizens Merchant Bank Ltd.               lUmited (In L'dation)
Citizens Ftnance & In. Agency              Partner Merchant Bank limited
-Doncaster Holdings Ltd.                   (In Uquidation)
VMBS GROUP (3)                                 MMUTUAL LIFE (4)
Renovation limited                         Jamaica Mutual Holdings
Tisane Limited                             Jamaica Mutual Life Assur.
Summerhill Development Umited              Jamaica Mutual Pension Fund
COMPANIES ALREADY IN LIQUIDATION,          Jamaica Mutual Properties
NCB GROUP (21
National Mutual Investment Ltd.
Zentor Urmited
CROWN EAGLE GRP. (1)
Woodpecker Ulmited
72                          2                                45                                    29                               24
61



62



ANNEX IV
SUPERVISORY AND REGULATORY REFORMS IN THE JAMAICAN BANKING SECTOR
KEY REGULATORY &        I TERNATIONAL BEST PRCTICE |PE-CRISIS SITUATION IN          CURRENT STATUS IN JAMAICA
SUPERVISORY ISSUES                                    JAMAICA
Preconditions for effective banking supervision:
Market discipline       Adequate flow of information to Less than optimal information to  Major improvement in level and
market participants; appropriate the market when supervisor not  detail of information flow  to
incentives.                   provided with accurate data by  market (financial indicator trends
licensees; likelihood of rumors  in addition to pre-existing data on
individual financial entities)
Safety net              Appropriate level of systemic  Full guarantee               Limited   guarantee  through
protection-confidence. Limited                              establishment  of  a  deposit
guarantee                                                  insurance corporation in 1998.
Current coverage per depositor
._er institution now J$300, 000.
Supervisory powers      Operational independence and  Not legally independent; no   Not legally independent; no
resources;                    minimum period of appointment  minimum period of appointment
Sufficient enforcement powers;  All enforcement/intervention  Enforcement/intervention powers
powers held by the Minister.  of supervisors have continued to
be enhanced.
Powers for effective resolution of Actions to be taken by the Supervisor may assume
problems in banks, including exit; Minister                temporary management of a weak
institution. The Minister retains
the powers of licensing and de-
licensing institutions, vesting of
shares of failed institutions, final
sign off on fit and proper
requirements as well as to issue
Regulations.
63



KEY REGULATORY &        INTERNATION4L .BEST PRACTICE  PRE-CRISIS SITUATION IN       CURRENT STATUS IN-A;MAICA
SUPERVISORY ISSUES     .                              JAMAICA
Interagency co peration and   No information sharing        MOU signed among financial
sharing of rele ant information.                            supervisory agencies underpinned
the formation of the Financial
Regulatory Council (FRC), which
is chaired by the Govemor of the
BOJ. It commenced meetings on
December 2000.
Clear criteria f~r lead regulator.  No lead regulator       MOU goveming FRC activities
broadly defines the role of the
lead regulator under the Crisis
Intervention Matrix.
Licensing and structure:
Permissible activities  Clear definition of the scope of  Deposit taking activities de facto  Deposit taking activities still not
permitted activities, at a minimum  permitted to insurance companies  exclusively reserved to licensed
deposit taking activities reserved                          banks, as insurance companies
to banks                                                    continue  de  facto to issue
products    with    miniscule
'insurance wrapper' with the bulk
of premium payments going to a
"deposit fund" or 'deposit like'
instrument.
Ownership structure     Financial strength of major   Opaque groups.                BOJ may request changes to the
shareholders; effective                                     ownership structure of financial
supervision not hampered by                                 groups where determined that
group structures; transparency                              transparency and effective
supervision is hindered or
viability of licensee is threatened.
Fit and proper criteria  Stringent criteria applicable to  Certain requirements for owners  Requirements enhanced, and now
owners, directors and senior  and managers.                 extended to non-banking
management. Accountability and                              companies within conglomerates
I responsibility of managers and  I_that include a deposit-taking
64



.KEY REGULATORY &        INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICE   PRE-CRISIS SITUATION iN        CURRENT, STATUS IN JAMAICA
SUPERVISORY ISSIEg                                    JAMAICA
directors                                                   licensee. There is also automatic
statute barring of owners,
directors and senior managers of
failed financial entities.
Transfer of shares      Controlling interests approved by  Minister's approval       Minister's approval, fit and
supervisors                                                 proper requirements enhanced.
Major investments.      Approved by supervisors (to   Limits on fixed assets and     Limits on fixed assets and more
avoid undue risks and supervision  investments in enterprises  stringent limits on investment in
hindrance)                    established in law             enterprises established in banking
law.
Prudential regulations and requirements
Risk-based capital      Risk-based capital requirement  Deposit-based capital        Risk-based and deposit-based
adequacy:                                             requirements                   capital requirements
Main risks (credit, country,  Deposit-based, not risk-based  Credit and market risk
market, interest rate, liquidity)  capital requirements      incorporated in capital
taken into account                                          requirements.
Requirement on solo and       Only on solo basis             The law enables the Minister to
consolidated basis                                          issue capital requirements on
both solo and consolidated basis.
Regulations to be signed into law
in the near future.
Credit risk management  Supervisors evaluate policies,  Supervisor evaluates policies,  Supervisor evaluates policies,
(CRM): (i) Credit-granting  practices, and procedures for  practices and procedures for  practices and procedures for
standards and credit    granting and monitoring of     granting and monitoring of credit  granting and monitoring of credit
monitoring process.     current portfolio              portfolio                     portfolio
Credit bureau. Access to other  No credit bureau; banks do not  No credit bureau; banks do not
intermediaries positions      know other banks' exposures    know  other banks' exposures.
Law proposal tabled by the
government on Feb. 2002
CRM: (ii) Asset valuation  Asses quality; adequacy of loan-  Not sufficiently prudent provision  Prudent provision requirement
loss reserves                 requirements.
65



.<KEY1REGULATORY &      INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICE -PRE-CRISIS SrrU TION IN      CURREN STATUS IN JAMAICA
SUPERVISORY ISSUES                                   JAMAICA -.
CRM: (iii) Concentration  Identify and set limits    Prudent limits in place but solo  Prudent limits in place on solo
and large exposures    (consolidated basis).         basis                        and consolidated basis as now
provided for in law.
CRM: (iv) Connected     Arm's length basis, effective  Same limits as for unconnected  Much more stringent limits than
lending                 monitored and limited        parties                      for unconnected parties now in
(consolidated basis)                                       place on solo and consolidated
basis.
Amendment to law needed (to
explicitly require arms length
basis for related party credit)
CRM: (v) Country and   Identify and monitor country risk  No requirements         Guidance document in force
transfer risk           and transfer risk. Reserves
Market risk management  Banks. supervisors must determine No provisions for market risk  Guidance document on market
that banks measure and control                             risk drafted, now being discussed
market risks; where appropriate,                           with the industry.
set a capital cushion                                      Training of supervisors on market
risk in progress.
Internal controls:      Overall prudent management in  Standards of best practice were Enforceable "Standards of Best
accordance with policies and  being formulated for application Practice" including additional
strategies established by board;  by industry.             standards issued.
know-your-customer (laundering) Money laundering Guidelines in More formal Money Laundering
I place.                      Guidance Notes issued.
Methods of ongoing supervision
Bank management contact  Regular contact with bank   Initial strengthening and    Strengthening and re-
management and thorough      reorganization of staff       organization of staff and
understanding of banks'                                    methodology enhancement
operations (on- and off-site).                             continue.
Information flows improved.
Off-site surveillance  Prudential reports both solo and  Structured prudential reporting  Monitoring capabilities
consolidated and from non-    regime in place, less-than-optimal enhanced: Quarterly Performance
financial companies of the group  information available.   Targets Regime, Financial
66



KEY REGULATORY &        UNTERNATIONAL BEST PRXCTICE   IPRE-CRISIS SITUATION IN -    CURRENT STATUS IN JAMAICA
SUPERVISORY. ISSUES    .     _v_-                     JAMAICA
___________________________    Stability Monitoring Committee.
On-site examinations;   Means of validating information.  Clear guidelines re frequency and  On- and off-site examinations
external auditors       Clear guidelines related to   scope of examinations         enhanced. Training on
frequency and scope of                                      consolidated supervision and
examinations. Policies and                                  market risk for supervisors in
procedures in place.                                        progress.
Roles of auditors and supervisors  Less-than-optimal external audit  Requirements for auditors and
clearly differentiated        reports.                      audit reports have significantly
improved. Supervisor may now
require change/expansion in
scope of audit. The Minister will
shortly be issuing Regulations on
the qualification of auditors.
Consolidated supervision  Ability to review both banking  Review only banking activity  Legal ability to review all group
and non-banking activities, both                            companies' activities.
domestic and foreign.
Both (solo and consolidated)  Solo prudential requirements  Solo and consolidated legal and
prudential requirements                                     prudential requirements.
Training  in    progress  on
consolidated supervision
Information sharing among     Insufficient                  MOUs signed among financial
different supervisors                                       supervisory agencies. Financial
Regulatory  Council   (FRC),
chaired by the Govemor of the
BOJ commenced meetings on
December 2000.
Information requirements
Accounting standards    Comparable information; based  Profits were easily inflated by Accounting standards improved,
on internationally accepted   uncollected income            more in line with international
accounting principles and rules                             standards and principles
Scope and frequency of  Determined by supervisor; some  Scope and frequency stated in law  Determined  by  law  and
67



KEY RkEG-ULATORY &'     INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICE. PRE-CRsIs SITUATION IN         CURRENT STATS IN JAMAICA
SUPERVISORY ISSUES                                   J JAMAICA-
reporting               reports may be "event generate"  and determinable by supervisor,  supervisor. Better quality reports
however questionable timeliness
and reliability
Confirmation of the     Responsibility of banks'      Managers were not perceived as  Managers sign the official
accuracy of the         management; assessed by external taking sufficient responsibility for statements. Audit reports
information submitted   auditors. Special reports could be  the information.        improved. BOJ can ask auditors
decided by supervisors                                      for further work.
Regulation drafted that would
give the power to supervisors to
revoke the appointment of
auditors and prevent appointment
of non-qualifying auditor
Disclosure              Comprehensive and not         Disclosed information was     Improved disclosure standards.
misleading information regarding  frequently inaccurate and  BOJ can legally require further
activities and financial position of misleading             disclosure
banks.
Formal powers of supervisors
Corrective measures     Appropriate intervention to   Minister can assume temporary  Minister may suspend or revoke a
protect depositors, creditors, and  management, suspend or revoke a  license or vest shares of licensee
prevent widespread contagion.  license                      in himself to facilitate sale or
restructuring and present to the
Court a petition for the winding
up or initiate reconstruction
68



KEY REGULATORY &        INTERNATIONAL REST PRACTICE   PRE-CRIuIS SITUATION4IN        CURRENT STATUS IN JAMAICA
SUPERVISORY ISSUES                   .                JAMAICA
Graduated, and timely,        Minister can require undertakings, BOJ can require undertakings,
supervisory response (restrict  give directions, issue cease and  give directions, issue cease and
activities, restrict paybacks to  desist orders and take temporary  desist orders, and assume
shareholders, replace         management.                   temporary management.
management, conservatorship)
and vigilance                 Minister presents to the Court a
petition for the winding up or
initiates reconstruction
Initial Supervisory Ladder of  Supervisory response/
Enforcement                   intervention steps enunciated to
industry in updated Ladder of
Enforcement document.
Liquidation procedures  Ability to close or assist in the  BOJ assists in closure of financial BOJ assists in closure of financial
closure of financial institutions.  institutions.           institutions.
69



70



ANNEX V
JAMAICA - OVERVIEW OF THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK OF NON-BANK FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS
This annex was prepared on the basis of information obtained during a Bank mission in August
2001. The main text of this report contains details on more recent actions taken by the
Government.
1.    Insurance is not, in general, well developed in low-income countries. Demand from
households is weak because poor people have few possessions and cannot afford the insurance
premiums. Similarly poor people have little demand for life insurance as they find it already
difficult to set aside funds for short-term precautionary purposes and are therefore unable to
provide for their long-term financial needs. Insurance is also underdeveloped in low-income
countries because of the absence of the necessary infrastructure. Insurance relies on the law of
large numbers and the compilation of data about the occurrence of accidents and the resulting
financial losses. Data on loss experience are essential for setting premium tariffs but the
collection of such data requires extensive cooperation among insurance companies and an
advanced organizational network.
2.    Insurance business in developing countries often suffers from widespread mistrust
between insurance companies and their customers. To protect against fictitious claims and
insurance fraud, insurance companies include clauses that limit their liability in cases where
material information is not provided at the time an insurance policy is bought. Policies have also
exclusion clauses stipulating that insurance cover is not provided under certain specified
circumstances. Such exclusion clauses make insurance contracts difficult to understand and give
rise to disputes. In some countries, these disputes cause prolonged delays in settling claims,
which accentuate the mistrust of insurance companies.
3.    The insurance market in Jamaica is relatively developed but suffered greatly because of
the recent financial crisis. Already in October 1996, a joint IMF, WB and IDB mission carried
out a comprehensive assessment of the Jamaican Financial sector. It was found that the two
largest life offices (Mutual Life and Life of Jamaica) were insolvent and had substantial cross
lending and ownership links with the banking sector. This was itself also severely distressed.
The links between the banking and insurance sectors have been severed and a thorough revision
of the insurance regulation and supervision is taking place2. The Financial Sector Conmuission
(FSC) is going to replace the Office of the Superintendent for Insurance (OSI) as the new
regulator and supervisor for insurance, adding pensions and securities to its responsibilities.
4.    Today FINSAC has recapitalized Island Life and Life of Jamaica and divested the
insurance portfolios of Crown Eagle Life, Dyoll Life and Mutual Life. First Life and Guardian
Life of Trinidad acquired their portfolios, with the latter acquiring the bulk of the portfolios.
Barbados Mutual Life acquired a controlling interest in Island Life and is in the process of
buying Life of Jamaica. It is expected that the process of consolidation will continue with the
2See section on insurance regulation and supervision.
.71



merge of Island Life and Life of Jamaica. Barbados Mutual is expected to introduce a more
conservative style of management and more products in the market fostering innovation.
5.    By all means the Jamaican insurance industry, and especially the life-insurance industry,
is re-starting its activity in a totally new supervisory and regulatory environment, just established
and soon to be enacted. Everything is in a status of flux and market participants have the feeling
of re-starting with a clean slate. The prospect for growth will rely on the development of an
appropriate supervisory process and correct implementation of a newly designed regulatory
framework that on paper appears to meet most of the internationally accepted standards. Of
course, the highly expected economic recovery will allow companies to "go back on their feet".
Size and structure of the Jamaican market
6.    Data on the Jamaican insurance market is relatively hard to collect. The Office of the
Superintendent of Insurance (OSI) is currently being phased out and soon-to-be replaced by the
already established Financial Sector Commission (FSC). Most of the information reported here
relies on factual evidence collected during a 5-day mission in Kingston during August 2001. The
data reported here have been provided by the Jamaican Association of General Insurance
Companies (JAGIC) and by the Life Insurance Companies Association of Jamaica (LICA)3.
7.    Written premiums for Jamaican life and non-life insurance companies totaled JMD 12.04
billion in 1998 and JMD 12.80 billion in 1999. In 1999, life4 and non-life represented 43 and 57
percent of the market, respectively. Jamaica, compared to countries with similar per-capita GDP
has a fairly developed insurance market. Insurance penetration amounted to 4.8% of GDP in
1998 and 4.6% of GDP in 1999. Per capita premium was US$ 127 in 1998 whilst US$ 117 in
1999, the difference mainly accounted for a depreciation of the exchange rate.
Table 1: International Comparison of Insurance Industry, 1999
. -- =- cj .Real per.V   Preium     Premium     Life and
Couintry .   capita GDP  over GDP   per-capita           Non-life
(us$)/I -%)f           (US$) /-Heallb(%)
Morocco              3,421       2.58      32.54     37.65      62.35
Egypt, Arab Rep.     3,423       0.69      9.11      28.79      71.21
Ukraine              3,460      0.92       5.64       9.72      90.28
Jamaica /2           3,565      4.56      117.30     43.42      56.58
China                3,620       0.15      1.14       57.79     42.21
Philippines          3,803       1.40      12.38      53.75     46.25
Jordan               3,958       1.76     29.60       29.08     70.92
Notes: 1 1999 Egypt and Jamaica, 1998 all other countries; 2 Ufe and Health includes pension funds assets.
Sources: AXCO, LICA, JAGIC, and WB calculations.
8.    At the end of 1999 there were 8 life and 17 non-life insurance companies. During 2000
and 2001 life insurance companies were absorbed by Guardian life. The life insurance market is
highly concentrated. The largest company, Life of Jamaica, had in 2000 40% share of the
ordinary life market, 54% of the group health market, 36% of the group life market, and 70% of
3 Background material provided by AXCO and from previous WB, IMF, and IDB missions has also been used.
4 And health.
72



the pension asset management. The non-life market comprises of some 14 companies and it is
less concentrated than the life market: the largest 5 companies control over 60% of the market.
The process of consolidation in the life market has been desirable, as the market, especially
during the last recession, could not ensure the financial viability of too large a number of
companies. It is not clear whether consolidation is also needed in the non-life market. Although
margins have been eroded considerably during the last years, the economy is slowly rebounding.
Despite the fact that companies work with considerably low loss ratios, and that minimum
capital standards have been recently increased, industry participants feel that the non-life
insurance market is still small to support a large number of profitable companies.
9.    Table 2 reports data on the growth of the life insurance industry between 1990 and 1999.
Whilst the class of group life and health has expanded during the last decade and through the
financial crisis, individual life has been contracting since 1993. The reasons for the unfavorable
development of individual life can be traced in the recent financial crisis and deteriorating
economic condition. With increased unemployment, lapses have increased and policyholders
have simply stopped insuring. Another reason for the decline in premiums is related to the shift
from long-term protection to short term investment (quasi deposit) products. In any case, after a
period of stagnation, the economy is expected to rebound and already in 1999 gross premium
income for this market increased by 26% in nominal terms. In 1999, the individual life market
produced premiums of JMD 4,751 million (USD 100 rmillion) in 1999, or 73% of total life.
Table 2: Written Premium of Life Insurance Industry (JMD million)
!t DsYear  Individual   Group       Health       Total
1990            557.7        49.2        102.4       709.3
1991            996.0        41.8        131.4      1169.2
1992           5,011.1       64.5       236.7      5,312.3
1993           6,426.8      101.4        364.7     6,892.9
1994           5,300.3      170.7        556.2     6,027.2
1995           5,512.5      211.4        767.4     6,491.3
1996           4,366.7      312.7        912.5     5,591.9
1997           4,117.3      336.3      1,123.6     5,577.2
1998           3,778.5      444.5      1,345.6     5,568.6
1999           4,752.1      472.1      1,312.7     6,536.9
Sources: AXCO, LICA.
10.   Table 3 reports data on the growth of the non-life insurance industry between 1990 and
1999. Motor insurance represents 64% of total market. Its share has been increasing from 48%
in 1990 at the expenses of property insurance. In general the non-life industry has been stagnant
for the whole second half of the nineties mirroring the poor performance of the whole economy
during the same period.
73



Table 3: Written Premium of Non-life Insurance Industry (JM   million)
Y=Ye'ar    Propqerty      Motor       Liability     Other         Total -
1990              405.4        509.6         44.5          86.7       1,046.2
1991              522.8        712.4         41.5         133.8       1,410.5
1992            1,040.4       1,216.2        72.5         247.5      2,576.6
1993            2,447.6       1,865.4       120.6         375.8       4,809.4
1994            3,315.5       2,618.0        157.9        521.9       6,613.3
1995            3,093.9       3,130.6        179.0        565.0       6,968.5
1996            2,854.8       3,568.3       195.0         546.3       7,164.4
1997            2,197.3       3,634.0        202.2        582.1       6,615.6
1998            1,732.0       4,020.0       208.9         513.4       6,474.3
1999            1,862.1       4,532.2       258.1         417.6       7,070.0
Source: AXCO
11.   Figure 1 summarizes the structure of the life and non-life markets in Jamaica. Within
non-life, motor insurance accounted for 64% percent of gross premium income whilst within life,
individual life accounted for 73%.
Figure 1: Life and Non-life Market Shares, (1999)
Life                                Non-life
Other
591%
Heal                                Uarity   /
2008%     ;3,55%                          -      _   Properq
GroJup 
72.70%                motMor  ~
64.10%
Sources: AXCO, LICA, JAGIC, and WB calculations.
Products
12.    Life insurance companies sell individual and group life, healthcare and personal
accident5, and manage voluntary occupational pension plan assets. Jamaican life insurers write
most of personal accident and healthcare business. Some non-life insurers write a certain
volume of stand-alone personal accident business. Most of the business is group healthcare
coverage, and Life of Jamaica is estimated to be the only life company to write personal accident
insurance.
5 The normal scope of cover for personal accident is either death only or death and loss of limbs and/or
permanent/total temporary/partial temporary disablement.
74



13.   Voluntary occupational pension schemes existed prior to the establishment of the
National Insurance Scheme (NIS) in April 1966. Presently there are some 1,500 registered
schemes, which are either self-administered or pooled with pension administrators.  A
considerable amount of assets has been accumulated in these funds. Between 1990 and 1999 the
pension assets managed by insurance companies increased by more than 1,000% as shown in
Figure 2. In 1990, life insurance companies managed around JMD 2 million from some 600
plans whilst in 1999 they managed around JMD 19 billion from some 740 plans. It is estimated
that these represent a 50 to 70% share of total occupational pension assets.
Figure 2: Pension Assets and Number of Funds, (JMD million)
25.00 -                                              900
20.00 -                                             - |  slI   i  3   ll5850
- 800
7501
0 10.00 
700
5.00 -                                ~~~~~~~~~~650
0.003 g                  I I g                | -   600
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
Sources: LICA.
14.   The insurance market leader in pension funds is Life of Jamaica (LOJ). During the recent
financial crisis LOJ lost more than JMD 2 billion of pension plan assets due to over-investment
in illiquid real estate. Due to the recent financial volatility, companies are moving away from
guaranteed management to segregated pooled funds.  Although guaranteed products are
becoming less popular, it is clear that the new supervisory authority will need to exercise close
supervision on the way companies price guarantees.
15.   Group life assurance mainly consists of life policies on a term basis, as endowment-type
contracts have lost popularity during the years of high inflation. As of 1999, 19838 group life
contracts were in force insuring slightly more than 200,000 individuals. This is estimated to be
18% of labor force. LOJ is again the market leader for this product.
16.   Individual life is by far the dominant class producing some 70% of total life premium
income (including health). This class of business has contracted by more than 40% since 1993
reflecting the economic stagnation after the financial crisis. The two main products sold within
this class are term insurance for protection and investment-linked life policies for investment.
17.   Property insurance represented some 26% of total non-life premium income in 1999.
Homeowners' business is written as a separate class, whilst small commercial risks are written in
75



the property account. Homeowners have largely stopped insuring after the large Hurricane
seasons of the late 80s when premium rates increased considerably. Demand from households is
still weak after the subsequent decline in rates because poor people have few possessions and
cannot afford the insurance premiums.
18.   There has been little activity in the construction sector, due to the depressed state of the
economy and absence of new major investments. Major contracts are often insured overseas.
19.   Motor insurance is the largest class within non-life. Third party motor insurance is
obligatory for both bodily injuries and property damage. Limits have recently been increased.
There is no risk pool or altemative provisions for accidents involving uninsured drivers.
Although detailed statistics were not made available, it is estimated that some 50% of drivers
have comprehensive cover. The motor class is intensively competitive. Companies retain some
90-95% of premiums using excess of loss and proportional reinsurance for the rest. Since there
are no tariffs, some insurers are said to continuously undercut the market and this form of price
war has led to steep reductions in margins.
20.   The third largest class of non-life insurance is liability (product, third party, and
professional indemnity). The class of third party liability has grown in recent years but not
dramatically. As with other large risks, large industrial and commercial risks are frequently
placed overseas under master policies. What is insured in the local market is often, but not
always, heavily reinsured abroad. Product liability is very small and generally written as an
extension of third party liability. Finally, professional indemnity is also very small. Market
participants have witnessed an increased interest in this product. Ideally, due to the increasing
focus in the new legislation on corporate govemance and responsibilities of directors, it would be
advisable that directors and senior insurance management be required to take professional
indemnity insurance.
Efficiency
21.   Efficiency in the insurance industry is difficult to measure because, like all other types of
financial services, there is no easy definition of the output of the sector. Various measures are
used for comparative purposes but these are subject to considerable subjectivity that substantially
reduces their usefulness. For life insurance business, underwriting performance is even more
difficult to measure because of the longer-term liabilities.  In this section we focus on
underwriting performance on non-life insurers.
22.   For the non-life business, underwriting performance can be measured by the loss ratio.
The loss ratio usually measures net accrued claims as a proportion of net eamed premiums, i.e.,
gross claims paid less claim provisions at the beginning of the year plus claim provisions at the
end of the year less the receipt from reinsurers over gross premiums received less premiums
ceded (net or retained premiums) less premium provisions at the end of the year plus premium
provisions at the beginning of the year. It shows the percentage of premiums that are paid back
to the insured and a high ratio normally indicates an efficient and competitive industry while a
low ratio would indicate relative inefficiency. Notice that because payments for losses may be
spread over a number of years, especially for so-called long tail business, such as automobile
insurance where claims may take several years to settle, insurance companies make transfers to
loss reserves to cover future payments. Differences in reserving policies and manipulation of
76



reserves for tax and other purposes usually reduce the usefulness of the loss ratio as an index of
efficiency and an index average over two or more years should be taken.
23.   Unfortunately, due to lack of data the loss ratio reported in Table 4 are calculated as gross
claims over gross premium income. Despite this shortcoming, the data clearly shows that the
non-life market is non-competitive and probably inefficient.
Table 4: Non-life insurance, loss ratios (%).
Year     Property   Motor-   Liability
1990           9.5      56.9      44.6
1991          31.3      68.2      57.8
1992          17.8      59.2      56.3
1993          12.8      54.3      56.0
1994           5.2      54.3      51.0
1995          10.2      59.2      33.9
1996          11.2      68.3      59.1
1997          31.5      80.2      45.7
1998          26.8      76.8      64.0
1999          33.2      69.1      47.6
Sources: AXCO
24.   As expected, the loss ratio for the motor insurance class is higher than for the property
and liability classes. However, it appears that in average all companies work with low loss
ratios6. In developed economies this would be around 80-90 percent. The low loss ratio seems
to suggest that tariffs are set too high with respect to the risk taken and that companies are rather
inefficient.
Distribution
25.   For non-life insurance all channels are used with the exception of bank assurance. Direct
selling appears to be the more common. Most motor insurance is sold via agents, and brokers
would be involved only with major private or commercial fleets. The agency system is widely
used, with some agents working directly with companies, whilst others work on a sub-agency
basis through general agents. Many of the agents are based elsewhere than Kingston and as a
consequence, companies do not have offices outside major urban areas. Finally, brokers handle
some 60-70% of total non-life premiums.
26.   Life insurance business is distributed through own sales forces, independent agents and
insurance brokers. Most individual life business is sold through company sales representatives or
independent agents. Group life insurance and pensions business is sold through brokers. It is
estimated that 50% of group healthcare business is sold via brokers, with the reminder being sold
via company agency sales forces or independent agents.
27.   Most insurers have their own marketing and sales departments with staff mainly paid on a
commission basis. The excessive size of the sales force has been an important element in the
6 Unfortunately it was not possible to collect data on expense ratios. For very inefficient companies, the loss ratio
can be very high and "consume" a large share of gross premium income.
77



financial insolvency of many of life insurance companies during the recent financial crisis. As a
result of the re-capitalization and re-structuring of the companies that went insolvent, the number
of life sales representatives has decreased dramatically as shown in Figure 3.
Figure 3: Life Sales Force, year-end size and growth (1990 - 1999)
2500- ;        .                               - 40%
30%
2000 -                                         -0
i   l   1t .s' n  -20%
1500 -                                          10%
0)~~~~~~~~~~%1
irooo !                        o-
500- t     1 1|;'-t         -2~~~~~~-10%
-20%
500-
LU      ~~-30%
o- I               _    W     S    1..,-      go-40%
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
Source: LICA
28.   The insurance supervisory authority licenses agents. A fit-and-proper test is carried out
at the time of licensing to determine the qualification and moral standard of applicants. Training
and professional examinations are undertaken through LICA. Agents need to take professional
indemnity insurance. Despite the legal requirements, it is estimated that many agents are not
registered and are allowed to operate. The lack of supervision and poor implementation of
regulation in this area raises concerns regarding the extent with which consumer protection is
ensured.
29.   Brokers handle mainly group life and pensions business. Similar licensing requirements
for agents are applied to brokers. Most of brokers have only indirect links with reputable
overseas brokers. Only Fraser Fontaine and Kong are local correspondent offices of Marsh Inc,
whilst International Insurance Brokers has links with AON. Due to poor data collection, it is not
known how many of the 30 registered brokers have survived the recent financial crisis.
Asset allocation
30.   Insurance companies build up substantial technical reserves, which are available for
investment in long-term and marketable financial instruments. Life insurance companies have
long-term liabilities and their development constitutes an increase supply of long term funds in
the economy. Also non-life companies, that cover relatively short-term risks, accumulate
substantial reserves, which represent long-term resources for companies that experience a
reasonably steady growth in their business. In fact, because the loss claims facing non-life
insurance companies suffer from various processing delays until they are settled and are thus
exposed to the vagaries of inflation, non-life insurance companies in OECD countries tend to
78



place a high proportion of their technical reserves in long term maturity assets like stock and
bonds that generally provide a better hedge against inflation.
31.   Under Schedule 34 of the 1971 Insurance Act there is a statutory requirement that
reserves be established for unearned premiums, unexpired risk, outstanding claims. Premium
reserves are accumulated using the 1/24 rule, which is reflected in proportional treaties as a 40%
reserve. This is usually a good rule of thumb for accumulating reserves. In addition, a claims
equalization reserve has to be calculated at 5% of gross premium income. Reserves must be
maintained in liquid assets.
32.   Pension funds are usually held in a deposit administration account or a pooled investment
fund. Under the former, funds are invested in the life company's general fund, whereby the
capital is guaranteed and a minimum return on investment is also guaranteed. Under the pooled
investment fund, the funds of various pension plans are pooled and invested by the life company
separately from its general funds. No guarantee applies to segregated pooled funds.
33.   All investments must be in approved securities, listed in the 1971 Act. The essentially
include real estate, Government securities, Jamaican approved shares, or other assets authorized
by OSI. The new Insurance Act, to be passed before the end of 2001, lists very detailed
diversification and matching requirements for the allocation of reserves. It also allows increased
shares of foreign investment reflecting the concerns regarding the lack of sound and liquid assets
in the country. In particular, insurance companies will be required by law to establish an
investment committee and implement an investment policy. The investment policy establishes
the limits by type of asset or by sector for the allocation of reserves. It establishes strict internal
control mechanisms to ensure that investments are properly authorized. It finally establishes
standards to be followed for so that reserves are invested only in sound and liquid assets,
purchased at fair market value.
34.   Great emphasis is made on increasing the quality of governance and internal controls in
the new legislation. This involve, among other, requiring companies to appoint external
actuaries, establish an investment committee as a subcommittee of the Board of Directors, and
establishment an ongoing internal audit function. The focus on appropriate diversification of
asset risk is an attempt to avoid the problems of the recent past. Table 5 shows the asset
allocation of life insurance companies during the period 1992 - 1999. Over investment in real
estate (that in 1997 reached 42% of total assets) has been one of the major determinants of
companies' insolvencies. The rapid shift into Government securities, the share of which trebled
between 1997 and 1999, is a logic reaction to the recent events.
79



Table 5: Life Insurance Asset Allocation (JMD million)
Category      1992    1993    1994;    1995    1996-    1997    1998     1999
Real Estate      4,011.4  5,388.4  8,006.2  9,218.0  9,497.5  8,756.1  NA   3,101.3
Mortgage Loans    442.7    676.3   533.9   599.3    455.0   458.3    NA      181.8
Gov. Securities   453.3    551.1   710.1    842.4  1,437.7  3,914.1  NA    12,395.4
Policy Loans      265.5    307.9   344.5   380.6    463.6   483.3    NA      611.7
Unit Trust        791.8    396.5   542.5   444.4  7,008.3   661.2    NA      200.6
Common Stock     6,082.2  1,969.5  2,216.9  2,200.7  1,997.5  1,135.2  NA    633.2
Corp. Bonds       189.6    273.7    57.2   403.6    532.7   349.7    NA      181.0
Deposits         1,222.2  1,088.9  1,666.9  2,344.9  2,285.8  2,274.5  NA   2,212.0
Other            3,759.2  8,304.8  8,606.9 10,321.2  5,139.3  2,728.8  NA   1,971.3
Total           17,217.9 18,957.1 22,685.1 26,755.1 28,817.4 20,761.2  NA  21,488.3
Notes: Pension funds assets are excluded. Assets are on a non-consolidated basis. The category "Other" includes investments in affiliated
companies.
Source: LICA
80



ANNEX VI
OVERVIEW OF THE REGULATORY AND SUPERVISORY FRAMEWORK FOR NON-BANK FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS IN JAMAICA
This annex was prepared on the basis of information obtained during a Bank mission in August
2001. The main text of this report contains details on more recent actions taken by the
Government, including the enactment of the new Insurance Act.
I. INSURANCE SECTOR
Introduction
1.    The Jamaican legislative and supervision frameworks for insurance are currently being
updated. This is an evaluation of the Jamaican draft insurance law and regulation, and of the
progress made in the establishment of a new supervisory authority for insurance7. Since the
recent financial crisis the Jamaican authorities have spent considerable effort in updating the
financial sector regulation and revamping supervision. This was also supported by technical
assistance provided by international donors. Rather than an overall description of the new draft
insurance law and supervision arrangements, this report aims at addressing specific issues
identified during an identification mission that took place at the end of August 2001.
2.     As a general comment, the new insurance draft law and regulations are of high quality
and they successfully address internationally accepted principles of insurance supervision. The
legislation is highly detailed and sophisticated and a major concern relates to the ability of the
newly established Financial Sector Commission (FSC) to successfully implement it. The current
draft law and regulation contains important elements of risk based supervision and it puts a lot of
weight on the role of on-going audit functions and external actuaries of the companies.
Nevertheless, the style of supervision likely to be developed in the short run will undoubtedly be
a traditional tight "a priori" control on all operations and activities of the insurers. The lesson
learned during the recent financial crisis implies that proper determination of solvency position
of companies or validation of figures and infornation will be of major concern to the supervisory
authority. At the same time companies and new staff in the FSC will need time to adapt to a new
way of supervising and regulating the market. In particular, it is believed that some time will be
needed by the market and by the supervisor to develop and apply strong standards of corporate
governance and market conduct. However, the current draft legislation is designed to promote
these principles (the recommendations made here tend to reinforce them) and in the medium
term the FSC is likely to evolve its style of supervision into a style of partnership/consulting. In
this second style of supervision the FSC should be able to rely to some extent on the internal
controls and self-governance rules of the insurers and to focus mainly on guaranteeing fairness of
the services offered in the market and adequate solvency levels of the players. In order to
' The new Jamaican regulatory framework relating to insurance comprises the Financial Sector Commission Act
establishing a new regulatory and supervisory authority for insurance, pensions and securities, the soon-to-be
enacted draft Insurance Act and some 157 pieces of implementing regulation. The draft law and regulations are
subject to constant modification before being submitted to parliament. The draft law reviewed here is dated
beginning of August 2001.
81



succeed in this evolution, it will be absolutely necessary to promote strong controls and self-
govemance rules in the insurers intemal organizations.
Organization of the Supervisory Authority
3.    The FSC Act of 2001 has established a new financial sector supervisory authority
responsible for supervision and regulation in the securities, insurance, and private pensions areas.
The FSC Act describes the powers and responsibilities of the FSC. In the area of insurance, the
new institution will replace the Office of the Superintendent for insurance (OSI) once the draft
Insurance Act is passed. This is likely to happen by the end of October 2001.
4.    At the time of writing (beginning of September, 2001) the FSC was in the process of
being staffed and organized. As detailed in the next figure, a Board of Commissioners deferring
the daily operations to an executive director will govem the FSC. Insurance supervision and
regulation will be the object of activity of the sector-specific Department of insurance, and the
three departments (Examinations, Legal, and Actuarial/Research) offering cross-functional
services to all sector departments. The Corporate Services Departments will be handling
administrative issues related to licensing.
Figure 1: FSC's Organizational Structure
PRIMARY LEVEL ORGANQIZA:ONAL CHART
Mm
~~~OT~~~~~~~Q  IOF  M ESI
Pa,.____.    WEL.L I
Source: FSC.
5.    After the Insurance Act is passed, the market will finance the FSC through fees and a
share of gross premium income premiums (likely to be around 0.75%) for which no transition
phase has been designed. Although the industry will certainly recognize the usefulness of the
services provided by the new supervisory authority, pressure for a transition phase to comply
with the new regulation will certainly emerge.
6.    The budget at disposition of the FSC will allow for the retention of qualified personnel.
The Minister of Finance has approved a competitive salary range and has the authority to
approve, on an ad hoc basis, salaries in excess of such range. This has been the case for the
Executive Director and likely to be the case for the not yet identified Chief Actuary.
7.    All senior staff, with the exception of the Chief Actuary, the General Counsel, and the
Director for Pensions have been hired. The Board of Commissioners has been appointed and the
Executive Director nominated. The Minister of Finance appoints all 9 commissioners in the
82



Board. These, in turn, select the executive director. The FSC is likely to have 77 staff. As far as
insurance is concerned, personnel are likely to be transferred from the still active OSI and
missing staff will be hired from the market.
8.    On paper the FSC enjoys full autonomy to independently discharge its functions. Indeed
the Minister of Finance has powers that are mostly limited to administrative issues and general
financial policy. However, the governance structure with all Commissioners being appointed by
the Minister of Finance might indirectly expose the FSC to excessive political interference in
prudential matters. Other jurisdictions have often adopted some form of consultative process
between the political power and the industry. In Mexico, for instance, the head of the insurance
supervisory authority reports to a Board of Governors (Junta de Gobierno) where the Ministry of
Finance (SHCP), Bank of Mexico, Bank and Securities National Commission, the insurance
Supervisor (CNSF), the National Commission for Retirement Savings (CONSAR), and
independent experts are represented. This is a non-appointed collective body established by law
with independent experts appointed through a consultative process with the industries
supervised. The collective body ensures balance between political interference and industry
interests. At the same time, the fact that the industry does not directly appoint members of the
Board of Governors avoids problem of partisanship within the financial industry. In Canada,
emphasis is made on "newcomers", like community or teacher representatives with no vested
interests in insurance and who are expected to, and often do, provide balance and common sense
to every day operations. It is understood that a similar approach has been chosen in Jamaica but
where the composition of the Board is at the discretion of the Minister of Finance. It is believed
that the current situation can be improved by requiring the Minister to consult other boards and
agencies in the appointment of the FSC Board. Whilst the appointed Commnissioners will always
meet the standards currently set in the FSC Act, consultation should take place with the Bank of
Jamaica, the Actuarial Society, the Jamaica Institute of Chartered Accountants, Consumers
protection organization, and industry. It would not be advisable to have the industry directly
appoint few or any commissioner without appropriate checking and balances. The same bodies,
or agencies external to the MOF should be able to initiate the removal process of any
commissioners not meeting the standards of morality and good conduct foreseen in the law.
Responsibility for appointment and removal would still lie within MOF.
Licensing
9.    The legal provisions on licensing (registration) are in place through the insurance
supervision law. These can be found in the Part II of the draft law and Part IV of the draft
regulation. The classes of insurance business foreseen are divided into "general insurance" (non-
life) and "long-term insurance" (basically, life and health insurance). The permitted types of
legal form under which companies can operate on the market are indirectly defined as "body
corporate" in Section 6 of the draft law with reference to the Company Act. In further reading
the draft law it can be inferred that these are joint stock companies and mutual companies.
10.   Composite companies cannot exist and only separate juridical persons can conduct life
and non-life business. Furthermore, Section 26 of the draft law requires that companies with
more than one license keep asset in separate funds, one for each license.
11.   Regulation 137 prescribes that all placement of insurance business can only be done by
insurance companies registered in Jamaica. However, there is a detailed treatment of non-
83



registered activity. This aims at regulating and supervising cross border operations. In particular
it aims at ensuring consumer protection for operations with "brief case agents" selling policies in
Jamaica under no supervision. It is not clear how this activity can be regulated or supervised.
Ideally, a clear regulatory framework on cross border operations would encourage foreign
companies to contact the supervisory authority when wishing to sell products in Jamaica without
actually registering a company. However, it is doubtful that without strong coilaboration with
supervisory authorities in potentially many home countries, consumer protection can be pursued.
12.   The draft law clearly details the licensing requirements for local and foreign insurers.
These are very detailed and meet international standards. In particular, this include fit and proper
test for directors and senior management. These persons must possess the necessary knowledge,
skills and integrity for their positions. The same rules apply to shareholders with more than 10%
of company's total shares carrying voting rights. Of all these persons, the supervisory authority
obtains, among others, full names, address, nationality, details on occupation during the previous
10 years, particulars about any conviction or offence committed in connection with financial
services (participation in unsound transactions; bankruptcies caused by dishonesty; tax evasion),
frauds and dishonesty.
13.   The insurance supervisor has the authority to refuse to issue the license to operate if facts
exist from which it can be deduced that the holders of a qualifying participation are in an
economic situation which may be hazardous to the soundness of the applicant; do not have
sufficient resources to keep the company solvent on an on-going basis; or are or have been
directly or indirectly involved in illegal transactions affecting their suitability. The supervisory
authority can also refuse the license if directors or senior managers do not possess the necessary
qualifications to conduct insurance business in an efficient manner. However, there is no
provision in the draft law that enables the supervisory authority to refuse the license on the basis
of an economic study of market conditions. Jamaica is a small market and although the recent
financial crisis has forced consolidation, it clearly cannot absorb too large a number of insurance
companies. The FSC should have the authority to judge on the optimality of allocation of
applicant's capital. In the CIMA region a feasibility economic study has been used with some
degree of success to offset the negative impact on entry of very low minimum capital
requirements. However, even now that requirements have been increase, such study is thought
to be of considerable value in the analysis of applicants' business plans. It appears that Section
11 of the draft Insurance Act could be amended to increase FSC powers in this direction.
14.   Information on the products offered by the insurer (general policy conditions, technical
basis for the calculation of premium rates and provisions) need also to be submitted to the
supervisory authority. The draft regulation allows for the adoption of a file and use approach but
it also leaves the door open for product control. The new supervisory authority would like to
have sufficient degrees of freedom to modify the extent of product supervision according to the
financial strength of a company. The extent of regulatory intervention would depend on the
development of a regulatory ladder. However, all this needs testing once the new supervisory
authority will be fully operative.
15.   The license applicant must submit a business plan outlining the proposed business of the
company for at least three years ahead. The business plan provides information on the types of
obligation the company proposes to incur; the types of risk it proposes to cover; details on the
84



company's insurance and reinsurance program; and the estimated sums to be spent as setting-up
costs and to promote the business. However, the business plan as detailed in Schedule 3 seems
not to require the applicant to submit the projected development of business and capital or
solvency margins so that controls can be made ex post on the soundness of the business plan.
The FSC Executive Director ensured that the projected solvency margins will be required as
integral part of the business plan.
16.   The draft law seems also not to require the licensing authority to control the source of
funds (in relation to regulation on money laundering, for instance), and any outsourcing contract.
Although the draft law clearly states that license can be refused if it appears that the company is
formed to conduct criminal activity like money laundering, consideration should be given to the
need for having an explicit requirement to control the legality of the source of funds.
17.   The draft law requires the applicant to appoint an actuary and an auditor. A fit and
proper test for company's actuary is required, similar to the one carried out for owners, directors
and senior management. Standards for the selection of auditors are also defined in Part VII of
the draft regulation dealing with corporate governance issues. In particular, Regulation 73
requires that appointed auditors must belong to the Jamaica Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Changes in control
18.   Section 13 requires that any change in particulars specified in the application after
registration need notifying to the supervisory authority. Section 32 requires the approval of the
supervisory authority for transfers or acquisition of any part of the business subject to the
jurisdiction of the court in Jamaica or if benefits accruing are from policies issued and payable in
Jamaica. Sections 32 and 33 detail the requirements for allowing acquisition, transfers, and
amalgamations. The requirements for acquisition, transfer or amalgamation are different from
the licensing requirements relative to owners and it is not clear how effective this part of the
draft law can be to allow for proper screening of changes in control. Ideally changes in control
should be defined in terms of shares and/or voting rights and the same licensing standards should
be applied when screening new owners. The new supervisory authority has to be satisfied that
the regulation, as now drafted, achieves this objective. Alternatively, it is recommended that it
be amended accordingly.
Corporate Governance and Market Conduct
19.   Issues relating to corporate governance are covered in Part II (Sections 36 to 47) of the
draft law and Part VIII of the draft regulation. Insurers are required to appoint an external
actuary establish a conduct review committee, and audit committee, and an investment
committee. There are detailed rules on the authority and responsibilities of these committees.
There are also detailed rules on restrictions on related party transactions and self-dealing as
fiduciary aimed at identifying potential suspicious transactions. The audit committee would
perform an on-going audit function with reporting duties to the Board of Directors and
supervisory authority. These committees would represent independent functions to monitor risk
management functions, investment, and underwriting risk.
20.   The insurance draft law does not define the role and responsibilities of the board of
directors. Board of directors should be required to accept and commit to internationally accepted
85



principles of corporate governance. They should also be made accountable to these principles.
The Company Act defines the role and responsibilities of Board of Directors. However, in such
Act there is a strong bias towards shareholders. In an insurance company is the responsibility of
directors to manage the company in accordance to their responsibilities with respect to
shareholders and policyholders, and subject to internationally accepted standards of corporate
governance. Accountability should be achieved within these boundaries. Directors who
expressed written dissent to specific actions or policies that later happen to fall outside the
boundaries before mentioned should not be made accountable for eventual consequences.
21.   Section 155 of the draft insurance law states that "In determining what are the best
interests of the company, a director, or senior officer shall take into account the interests of its
shareholders and policy holders and those persons to whom the director or senior officer owes a
fiduciary duty". The FSC Executive Director ensured that this is already an important step in
recognizing policyholders' interests without contradicting the spirit of the Company Act.
However, it is not clear whether the reference to policyholders' interest is sufficient in protecting
consumers' rights. Rules referring to consumer protection are scattered in the draft law but it
was not possible to find an explicit statement referring to the duty of insurance entities to have
policies in place on how to treat customers fairly, or even to have a compliant officer to deal with
consumers' complaints. The sprit of the draft law appears to be weak on aspect such the
responsibilities of board of directors market conduct. For instance, it is not clear why the
establishment of complaints procedures and proper communication to customers are not among
the responsibilities of the conduct review committee.
22.   On the one hand it is necessary to increase responsibility of Directors in the area of
corporate governance and market conduct. On the other hand this should not represent an
excessive constraint in meeting responsibilities towards shareholders. The balance between
these objectives can only be achieved by the people directly involved in drafting the new
Insurance Act. However the following basic issues should be formally addressed in the draft law
and not left to interpretation. It is recommended that the conduct review committee, or
equivalent body directly reporting to directors, be required to ensure the fair treatment of
consumers; that marketing of product be conducted in a clear, truthful, and non misleading
manner; that plain language be used in all contract and policy illustrations; that full disclosure of
risks and benefits of product be made to consumers; that agents be fully qualified in selling
products; that no discrimination be made; and that agreed claims be paid promptly.
Investment Regulation
23.   Sections 23 and 24 of the draft insurance law and part VII of the draft regulation contain
regulation relating to investment of technical provisions covering liabilities. The regulation
foresees the constitution of an investment committee, preparation of investment policies,
nomination of custodians, separation of assets by type of license. The draft regulation is
extremely detailed and sets investment limits by type of assets, issuers, sectors, and nationality.
It is thought to be adequate to achieve appropriate diversification and maybe liquidity. However,
no reference was found to maturity and currency asset-liability matching. The problems in the
life insurance industry during the last crisis were in part due to inappropriate matching of asset
liabilities. Insurance companies invested most of their reserves in illiquid assets (real estate)
whilst asset holders exercised their claims on assets. In some jurisdictions with small capital
86



markets a liquidity requirement is introduced in the investment regulation so that companies
cannot invest in shares that are not liquid as defined by the stock exchange or the Securities
Commission. Liquidity is usually defined in terms of number of trades of a specific stock over a
given time period. Equivalent liquidity indicators can be devised for all traded assets. It is
recommended that liquidity, as well as maturity and foreign exchange matching, requirements be
introduced in the legislation.
24.   Finally it is not clear whether the same investment rules apply to asset managed by life
insurance companies for private pension schemes. The case of Life of Jamaica (LOJ) is very
important here. The company provides different products among which is a real estate fund.
However, since pension funds a highly liquid assets in the hands of contributors LOJ needed to
borrow at unfavorable interest rate during the economic crises to restitute contributions8. It
appears that a liquidity requirement of 25% of total assets be required for this fund in the future.
Reinsurance
25.   The draft insurance act does not cover the supervision of reinsurers. However, it gives
the FSC powers to monitor and control reinsurance arrangements. For instance, at the time of
licensing, companies must provide evidence of satisfactory reinsurance arrangements. The lack
of satisfactory reinsurance arrangements is also ground for cancellation of license (Section
15(a)(iv)). Hence, the control of reinsurance treaties is object of on-site supervision.
26.    Section 8.4.8 of the Actuarial Regulations for General insurance Companies states that
the Actuary's Report to the FSC should: a) indicate the amounts assumed recoverable from the
reinsurers; and b) specify any unusual problems or delays expected to 'be encountered in the
collection of the relevant amounts from the reinsurers. The FSC reports that the actuary is
required to describe the reinsurance arrangements and any changes that have taken place in the
period. In addition, specific details that the actuary should highlight in the report are given,
including: a) a reinsurance contract or cover note is not signed; b) a dispute has arisen with a
reinsurer; c) the reinsurer has a history of not settling accounts promptly; d) the reinsurer's
experience under the treaty is so minimal or other circumstances exist that cause there to be a
high probability that the reinsurer will deny liability; e) the reinsurer has significant financial
exposure to Jamaica and/or the Caribbean in the event of a catastrophe; f) the reinsurer is known
to have been the subject of regulatory restrictions in its home jurisdiction. Obviously, it is not
expected that the actuary assess the financial condition of each reinsurer. However, the actuary
would have discussions with management, the auditors and the reinsurers if possible in order to
determine any credit risks.
27.   The regulation leaves to the company and company's actuary to exercise prudential
control on reinsurers. This is correct as ultimately the quality of reinsurance affects the
company's profitability. However, other jurisdictions have complemented this with a more pro-
active approach to reinsurance supervision on the part of the supervisory authority. In Mexico,
for instance, the local supervisor has established a register of "admissible" reinsurers based on
8 For arguments supporting the need for immediate vesting and illiquid pension funds see the following two papers
and quoted reference. Impavido, G., and A. R. Musalem (2001) Contractual Savings, Stock and Asset Markets,
World Bank Policy Research Paper: 2490. Catalan, M., Impavido G., and A. R. Musalem (2000) Contractual
Savings or Stock Market Development: Which Leads? World Bank Policy Research Paper: 2421.
87



ratings of rating agencies. This is complemented by constant collaboration with foreign
supervisors to cross check actuary's reports and opinion expressed by management. Changes in
ratings are also object of discussion among local and foreign supervisors. The FSC is satisfied
that the institution of a registry of "admissible" reinsurers would be beneficial. Companies with
non-admitted reinsurers would be identified as exposed to undue credit risk and this would be
reflected in their minimum solvency margin. In any case, due to the highly specialized nature of
reinsurance activity, it is recommended that the FSC organizational structure be changed to
include a Reinsurance Division within the insurance department. This should be staffed with
reinsurance specialists who, among others, would update the before mentioned registry.
Financial Reporting
28.   Financial reporting forms have been designed and the FSC is currently in the process of
selecting consultants to design an integrated piece of software for financial information filing
and solvency monitoring. It is expected to select the consultant for this task by December 2001.
29.   At present, financial reporting is required on quarterly basis with information covering
the previous quarter. Once a fully automated filing information system is in place the marginal
cost for companies to move from quarterly to monthly reporting should be very low. In many
jurisdictions monthly reporting covers information for the previous 3 months. This "moving
window" gives the opportunity to both the supervisor and the company to update information
and discover mistakes (if any) or more serious problems.
On-site Inspections
30.   Personnel have been trained in the use of a new inspection manual. On-site inspections
have been already carried out using the new manual. The manual is very detailed and it is too
early to say whether this will facilitate the use of an audit approach to on-site inspections.
Conclusions and Recommendations (for the insurance sector)
31.   The Jamaican authorities have invested a lot of time, money and skills in updating the
regulatory and supervisory framework for insurance since the last financial crisis. This process
is being completed in these months. Hence, this report merely witnesses the important changes
that have already taken place and provides marginal recommendations.
32.   The new insurance draft law and regulations are of high quality and they successfully
address internationally accepted principles of insurance supervision. The draft text is highly
detailed and sophisticated and will require substantial effort on the part of the new supervisory
authority to implement it. The FSC is well designed and the process of hiring key personnel is at
an advanced stage. As conceived, the FSC is highly likely to successfully and independently
discharge all its functions.
33.   Despite this, recommendations are here listed for consideration of the Jamaican
authorities.
34.   Although not currently an issue, independence of FSC from political intervention can be
improved by requiring the Minister to consult other boards and agencies in the appointment of
the FSC Board. Whilst the appointed Commissioners will always meet the standards currently
88



set in the FSC Act, consultation should take place with the Bank of Jamaica, the Actuarial
Society, the Jamaica Institute of Chartered Accountants, Consumers protection organization,
industry, academia, et cetera. Responsibility for appointment and removal would still lie within
MOF. This mechanism of nomination/appointment has the advantage of ensuring continuity of
service in the board of directors beyond what ensured by the rules of removal with cause in the
FSC act. It has also the advantage of ensuring that technically competent people are nominated
on the Board. This would complement the rules, assessed to be rather generic, on fit and proper
test as they appear in the FSC act. It finally has the advantage of promoting collaboration
between the market and its supervisor.
35.   In reviewing the licensing rules it was noted that there is no provision in the draft law that
enables the supervisory authority to refuse the license on the basis of an economic study of
market conditions. Jamaica is a small market and although the recent financial crisis has forced
consolidation, it clearly cannot absorb too large a number of insurance companies. Section 11 of
the draft law should be amended accordingly.
36.   Also, no explicit requirements for controlling the source of funds (in relation to
regulation on money laundering, for instance), and any outsourcing contract were found.
Although the draft law clearly states that license can be refused if it appears that the company is
formed to conduct criminal activity like money laundering, consideration should be given to the
need for having an explicit requirement to control the legality of the source of funds.
37.   Requirements relating to changes in control are differently stated from the requirements
imposed on owners on licensing. The requirements for acquisition, transfer or amalgamation are
different from the licensing requirements relative to owners and it is not clear how effective this
part of the draft law can be to allow for proper screening of changes in control. Ideally changes
in control should be defined in terms of shares and/or voting rights and the same licensing
standards should be applied when screening new owners. The new supervisory authority has to
be satisfied that the regulation, as now drafted, achieves this objective. Alternatively, it is
recommended that it be amended accordingly.
38.   The draft law is thought to be still weak in areas such as market conduct and corporate
governance. It is recommended that directors be made responsible for the fair treatment of
consumers: this could take place at the level of the conduct review committee, or equivalent
body directly reporting to directors. Directors' responsibility in this area would include: 1)
ensuring that marketing of product be conducted in a clear, truthful, and non misleading manner;
that plain language be used in all contract and policy illustrations; that full disclosure of risks and
benefits of product be made to consumers; that agents be fully qualified in selling products; that
no discrimination be made; and that agreed claims be paid promptly.
39.   The investment rules of reserves/technical provisions seem not to include liquidity, or
maturity or foreign exchange matching requirements. These should be an integrant part of the
very sophisticated rules already in place.
40.   The new insurance legislation does not adequately cover the supervision and regulation
of reinsurers. Reinsurance activity is an object of supervision by the FSC as in Part II of the
2001 Insurance Act it is stated that license can be revoked if "unsatisfactory" reinsurance
89



arrangements are made. The FSC believes that the institution of a registry of "admissible"
reinsurers and the definition of adequate standards for admission (on the basis of international
ratings, for instance) would be beneficial. Companies with reinsurers that are not admitted
would be identified as exposed to undue credit risk and this would be reflected in their minimum
solvency margin. In any case, the reinsurance activity is a highly specialized activity and it is
recommended that the FSC organizational structure be changed to include a Reinsurance
Division within the insurance department. This should be staffed with reinsurance specialists
who would update the before mentioned registry.
II. REGULATION OF OTHER NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
A. Securities Sector
41.   The FSC Act also provides for the vesting of all assets, rights and liabilities of the former
Securities Commission with the new Commission and all rights, powers, privileges, immunities
or duties previously enjoyed or performed by the Securities Commission are henceforth to be
enjoyed and performed by the Commission. In addition, the Commission is given increased
powers to give directions to licensees (securities dealers and investment advisors) in relation to
unsound business practices or other breaches under the securities act. Licensees under the
Securities Act will now be obliged to inform clients if clients funds are placed in offshore
investments and to keep records of such investments. The insider trading provisions have also
been extended to prohibit a person who contemplates making a takeover offer from dealing with
securities of the target company if the fact that the offer will be made is "unpublished price
sensitive information". The Act also prohibits that person from communicating such information
to anyone else and prohibits anyone receiving such information from passing it on or acting upon
it. There has also been a substantial increase in the penalties for contravention of the provisions
of the Securities Act.
B. Unit Trusts
42:   The Unit Trusts Act has been amended to transfer responsibility for the supervision of
unit trusts to the new Commission. The amendment also increases the penalties under the Unit
Trusts Act and requires managers of unit trusts to keep proper accounts and records to be audited
annually and to provide accounts to the Commission.
C. Pensions
43.   A further crucial element of the Government's efforts to strengthen the financial sector
and to improve its institutional structures and regulatory framework concerns the proposed
reform of the pensions system. These efforts are in response to the fall out in the financial sector
that seriously jeopardize the viability of numerous pension funds which were imprudently
invested and had to be assisted by FINSAC. Presently, there are approximately 1500 registered
pension schemes, which are either self- administered or managed/invested by pension fund
administrators. However, no legislation exists to provide effectively for their regulation. The
minimal provisions in the Income Tax Act are primarily concerned with the tax-exempt status of
pension schemes and impose few requirements on the operations of these schemes.
44.   The need for a serious reform of the pension system was recognized in 1994 with the
establishment of a Pensions Reform Committee (PRC). The PRC was constituted with
representation from a broad cross section of persons involved in and concerned with pensions
90



operations and administration in Jamaica. The recommendations of the PRC formed the basis of
the reforms proposed in a Green Paper, which was tabled in Parliament in January 1999. The
proposals in this paper stimulated much discussion. In May 2001, a White Paper on the Reform
of the Pension System in Jamaica was presented in Parliament. The White Paper proposed that
the newly established Commission assume responsibility for the efficient regulation and
supervision of entities involved with pension funds. The enactment of a new National Pensions
Act was foreseen as a crucial part of this process. The new National Pensions Act is intended to
incorporate provisions dealing with the following key aspects:
* Licensing and registration requirements for pension/superannuation fund and
managers/administrators of pension funds;
*  Full disclosure of information to the members of the pension/superannuation fund and
the Commission;
*  Accountability of the trustees and managers/administrators of such funds for their
operation;
* Investment limits;
* Enabling self-employed persons and persons in non pensionable employment to
provide for retirement income at levels commensurate with the provisions of
occupational pension schemes;
* Funding for parental provisions by children;
*  Voluntary indexation of pensions; and
* Mandatory preservation and portability of pension rights.
45.   The White Paper lists detailed licensing and registration requirements. All approved
pension funds established in Jamaica will be required to register with the Commission. All
managers and administrators of pension funds must be licensed and comply with appropriate fit
and proper person requirements. The Commission must similarly register trustees of pension
funds and licenses and registration can be cancelled, revoked or refused. The new Act will also
contain detailed conditions for the registration of pension schemes, requirements for full
disclosure and accountability both to the Commission and to the respective members of the
schemes. In the event that a member of a pension plan considers that their best interests are not
being served or are being jeopardized in any way, they shall have recourse to the Conmmission.
Strict investment criteria will be spelt out in the Act and provision will also be made for penalties
for non compliance, portability of pension rights, limited indexation of pensions and various
incentives to improve the attractiveness of approved retirement schemes.
46.   An initial draft of the National Pensions Act is expected to be tabled in Parliament
shortly. Submissions will be invited and a second reading of the Bill is expected to occur early
in 2002. The pension reform proposals have been widely discussed and a high level of
consensus has been achieved. The introduction of the National Pensions Act based on the
proposals contained in the White Paper will represent a significant advance for Jamaica and a
further strong element in the reform of the non banking financial sector.
D. Regulatory Arbitrage
47.   The crisis of the 1990's witnessed an unsatisfactorily high level of regulatory arbitrage.
To improve coordination in the activities of the various regulators and reduce the scope for
regulatory arbitrage, the authorities have:
91



* Signed a Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Supervisor of Banking
Institutions, the Executive Director of the Commission, the Executive Director of the
Jamaica Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Financial Secretary;
* Established a Regulatory Policy Council (Council); and
* Begun the process of harmonizing prudential norms across the entire financial
services industry.
48.   The MOU mandates the Council to develop policies and strategies to facilitate greater
coordination and information sharing between the various supervisory agencies operating in the
Jamaican financial sector. The MOU allows for consolidated supervision and the conduct of
coordinated examinations for duly licensed entities. The MOU also makes provision for the
establishment of the Bank of Jamaica as the lead supervisor for the parent company of a bank-
controlled financial group (i.e. financial holding company) and the Commission to be the lead
regulator for a non-bank financial group controlled by an insurance company (or other non-bank
financial institution). It also seeks to minimize the risks of contagion and facilitate timely
discussions on policy for the financial sector. Legislative amendments to facilitate this process
and formally establish the Council are being drafted. The Council meets monthly under the
Chairmanship of the Supervisor of Banks and, to date, appears to be working satisfactorily with
good exchanges of information and a spirit of cooperation. The possibilities for regulatory
arbitrage have been greatly reduced.
E. Summary (Other non-bankfinancial institutions)
49.   In summary, the regulatory framework that is being put in place in respect of the non-
banking financial sector appears sound and well thought out.  The experience of other
jurisdictions, particularly that of South Africa, has been studied and the lessons from this and
other parts of the world have been taken into account. There is strong industry support for the
new Commission and widespread enthusiasm for the executive appointments that have so far
been made. Clearly, it is early days but the preliminary indications would suggest that the new
Commission would prove to be an effective response to the regulatory weaknesses of the non-
bank financial sector identified as a result of the recent banking crisis.
92



ANNEX VII
BANK OF JAMAICA FINANCES
1. The BOJ's mid-term projections reported large yearly operational losses expected from
2002-2006, as a continuation of the losses that emerged in 2001. An examination of BOJ's cash
operations indicates a more precarious situation with losses since 2000, primarily because
interest due on all FINSAC instruments has been accrued and capitalized since 1999.
2.     The first Bank loan supported the resolution of FINSAC debt held at the BOJ based on
the approach reflected in the Government's BRDP. However, the implementation of crucial
elements of the proposal was delayed by the BOJ in the context of the need to improve its
financial position. The BOJ explored alternatives to address its deteriorating profitability in a
comprehensive manner, dealing with the resolution of FINSAC debt together with other under
performing assets. The Bank also provided technical assistance in this process. In August 2002,
the Government presented to the Bank a modified approach to resolve BOJ finances that
recognizes old quasi-fiscal losses and improves the income generating capacity of the BOJ. The
following sections discuss factors affecting BOJ losses; the original proposal to address FINSAC
losses; and medium term implications of the revised approach to handle FINSAC bonds at the
BOJ and BOJ finances.9
A. Identification of the factors affecting the losses
3.     Two major factors have influenced the worsening of BOJ's financial position: Large
costs of open market operations (OMOs)'0 and impaired income generating capacity due to the
composition of the BOJ's balance sheet.
i. The following aspects led to increased OMOs, at large costs.
* A significant growth in net international reserves in a context of increased overseas
borrowings by the Government (see Table 1);
*  The provision of support to institutions that experienced severe liquidity problems
during the financial sector crisis of the mid 1990's and;
*  The reduction in the cash reserve ratios applicable to financial institutions since 1999.
In order to counter any inflationary impulse, the BOJ sterilized the Jamaica Dollar liquidity
impact of the reserves build-up and neutralized the liquidity impact of the resources provided to
the financial sector and the cash reserves release into the system. Sterilization was achieved
through an expansion in the BOJ's liabilities, at market rates.
9 Sections A-C are largely based on a report received from the BOJ: Reducing losses and returning to profitability.
This report presented an alternative proposal to address BOJ finances. The Bank also commissioned a report by
Carlos Budnevich (consultant, previously at the Central Bank of Chile) to explore ways to address this issue. The
MOF's modified proposal, reported in section E, took these efforts into account.
1 Open market operations (OMO) were introduced in the mid-1980s as an indirect instrument of monetary policy.
In the early years, the growth in the stock of OMO instruments was driven by an exponential growth in BOJ losses
in the absence of earning assets and in a context of high interest rates. In later years the growth was propelled by an
increase in (a) liquidity support for troubled financial institutions (b) accumulation of NIR and (c) reduction in cash
reserves ratio from 25% to 9%.
93



Table 1. Bank of Jamaica: Audited Balance Sheet, December 2001
2001               2000
J$'000             J$'000
ASSETS
Foreign assets*                                                 89,932,881         47,872,693
Local assets
Notes and coins                                                   39,196             25,496
Securities- marketable                                        29,243,864         27,930,619
- non-marketable (FINSAC & Non-interest bearing LRS)**       29,206,156         29,164,474
Advances to banks and other financial institutions                                2,921,425
Due from Government and Governmelit Agencies***                9,026,607          8,556,035
Fixed assets                                                   1,152,334           1,150,083
Other                                                          7,829,610          4,549,879
76,497,767         74,298,011
166,430,648        122,170,704
LIABILITIES CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Notes and coins in circulation                                  22,367,790         20,572,228
Deposits and other demand liabilities                           95,778,359         53,803,473
Securities sold under repurchase agreements                     38,446,253         42,156,477
Foreign liabilities                                               291,721             378,697
Other                                                            8,326,681          4,293,292
165,210,804        121,204,167
Capital & Reserves                                                 1,219,844           966,537
166,430,648        122,170,704
*Items reclassified to conform to 2001 presentation.
**Includes the entire balance of FINSAC bonds and accrued interest capitalized, and J$2.2 billion in Non-interest
bearing LRS (maturing in 2035-2036).
*** Includes previous losses at the BOJ. As of December 2001, the balance of advances and other receivables
from the Government (excluding Government agencies) was 8.3 billion, which were replaced in 2002 with
marketable securities as part of the modified approach to deal with BOJ finances (see below).
Source: Bank of Jamaica
ii.   The BOJ's income generating capacity was impaired by the existence of the following under
performing and non-performing assets, which accounted for the bulk of its total assets (Table
1). These assets represent quasi-fiscal losses emerging from the financial support of the BOJ
to financial institutions during the financial crisis of mid 1990s for FINSAC bonds, and from
losses accumulated during the macroeconomic difficulties of 1989-1994, for other under-
performing assets:
*   About 80 percent of total FINSAC bonds that earn below market interest rates (at
about 10 percent). These instruments were issued consequent to the provision of the
liquidity support to troubled financial institutions during the financial crisis.
* Non-interest bearing LRS
* Advances to and Receivables from the Government & Government Agencies that
earn below market remuneration (largely derived from unsettled BOJ losses). I'
" The Govermnent is required, by the Bank of Jamaica Act to pay to the BOJ, out of a Consolidated Fund created
for this purpose, the losses incurred by the BOJ; Section 9 (3) provides that if, in the opinion of the MOF, a
94



4.    Concurrently, over the past two years, the BOJ's earnings from its holdings of LRS have
declined due to the combined effect of declining stocks and falling interest rates. In addition,
while earnings from gross foreign reserves are significant and have been growing, the interest
rate paid on these investments is between 9-10% below that earned on domestic securities.
B. Original proposal
5.    The proposal for the resolution of FINSAC debt with the BOJ, as reflected in the first
loan, was to become effective at 31 March 2001. It required:
* The redemption of $13 billion of FINSAC debt held by the BOJ utilizing $13 billion
of deposit liabilities to the central government at the BOJ;
* The conversion of the remaining $15.5 billion of FINSAC debt, inclusive of interest
accrued to 31 March 2001 to a Government debt instrument;
* The instrument issued above to earn interest at a rate of approximately 13.5 percent,
as this would have provided the BOJ with enough income to break even on its
operations.
6.    The Government, given cash flow challenges, informed the BOJ that it would be unable
to pay that rate of interest and had only allocated $700 million from the 2001/02 fiscal budget
and subsequent budgets to service the debt. In essence, this implied payment at an interest rate
of 4.73 percent per year.
7.    The implementation of this proposal would have worsened the bottom line position of the
BOJ and did not address the critical issue of the profitability of the institution. The combination
of the redemption of $13 billion of FINSAC bonds and remuneration of 4.73 percent interest on
the converted instruments would have seriously impaired the earnings of the institution over the
near and medium terms.
8.    Since 31 March 2001, certain additional factors have led to further worsening of the
financial position: the build-up in foreign assets due to the Government's foreign borrowing for
2001/02, and the additional cash reserves releases that occurred during the period as part of the
gradual decline of reserve requirements. The corresponding growth in open market liabilities
associated with these two occurrences and the concomnitant interest costs have resulted in losses
in 2001 and would have led to further losses in the medium term. The following table
summarizes the BOJ's projected financial position for the next five years if the proposal was
implemented.
Table 2. Effect of Original Proposal on BOJ Finances
In J$ million                     2002      2003      2004      2005      2006
Cash Losses                      11,551    11,333    9,394     7,214     5,383
Accrued Losses (P&L)              8,417    7,817     6,716     5,720     5,096
Source: Bank of Jamaica
payment to the BOJ to clear the losses cannot be made from this Consolidated Fund, then such losses may be cleared
by the issue to the BOJ of securities charged to the Consolidated Fund.
95



9.    Although, following Cabinet approval, the Government authorized the BOJ to offset the
J$13 billion of FINSAC debt against its deposits, the BOJ did not implement it, because it
assessed that the proposal was going to have large detrimental effects on its finances. Thus, the
issue of the FINSAC debt to BOJ remained unresolved at the end of the BOJ's financial year, 31
December 2001. For the year 2001 the BOJ sustained accrued losses of $1.3 billion and cash
losses of $2.5 billion despite the fact that since March 2001 the BOJ's financial statements have
been prepared on the basis that the proposal is not implemented, that is, the total of FINSAC
bonds obtaining at 31 March remains unchanged and Government deposits are inclusive of the
$13 billion earmarked by the MOF to write down the debt.
C. Revised proposal: towards profiltability in the medium term
10.   Improving the income earning capacity of the BOJ is integral to restoring it to
profitability. Based on the composition of the balance sheet of the BOJ with a large proportion
of below market assets, the rate of earnings on its assets is significantly lower than the cost rate
on its liabilities, which for the most part reflect market rates. As noted above, among domestic
assets, about 80 percent of FINSAC bonds earned below market interest rates of 10 percent,
which together with Non-interest Bearing Liabilities and Receivables from the Government and
Government Agencies that also earn below market interest rates, accounted for about 23 percent
of total assets as of December 2001. In addition, the BOJ has accumulated reserves at a fast
pace, with foreign assets accounting for more than half of BOJ's total assets. The BOJ's strong
efforts to sterilize these reserves to avoid inflationary pressures and devaluation have come at a
high cost, further worsening its financial position.
11.   Against the background, an alternative method of reducing the accrued (and cash, albeit
more gradually) losses was agreed to between the MOF and the BOJ in August 2002, reflected in
an MOU signed on September 9h between the MOF and the BOJ. This approach addresses
under-performing assets beyond FINSAC bonds, recognizing that other under-perforning assets
were also adversely affecting the BOJ's balance sheet and profitability.
12.   The features of the set of actions implemented for the resolution of BOJ losses are:
* As per Cabinet approvals: (i) an amount of J$13 billion in FINSAC bonds has been offset
against an equivalent amount of MOF deposits at the BOJ; (ii) the balance principal amount
of J$15.5 billion in FINSAC bonds at the BOJ as of March 31 2001 along with J$3.2 billion
accrued interest up to March 31, 2002, were converted into Government securities paying
market interest rates. This interest will be capitalized (fresh instruments at market rates of
interest will be issued in lieu of cash interest payment) until 2007/08.
* Receivables from the Government amounting to J$8.3 billion carrying below market interest
rates have been converted into Govemment securities earning market rates of interest. The
interest on this instrument will also be capitalized until 2007/08.
* The Government is committed to redeem the J$2.2 billion in zero-coupon LRS (included in
Table 1 as part of non-marketable securities) in cash prior to April 1, 2003.
13.   The essence of this approach is that it requires market remuneration on under performing
assets. The financial results under this approach, while not restoring a profit position until 2006
and failing to eliminate cash losses, will lead to a significant diminution in the accrual and cash
losses over the five-year period. Concurrently, it would place the BOJ on a more sustainable
96



path to profitability. Notably, further declines in interest rates can only augur well for
improvement to the BOJ's finances.
Table 3. Effect of the Implemented Revised Proposal on BOJ Finances
In J$ million                      2002      2003      2004      2005       2006
CashLosses                        12,301    11,961    10,012     7,811     6,147
Accounting Losses (P&L)            5,157     4,458     1,909       369      (860)
Source: Bank of Jamaica
97



86



ANNEx VIII. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of 08/15f2000
Closed Projects 63
Active Projects                                                                                                                          Differec Between
Lost PSR                                                                   Expected and Actul
Supervenon Rading                         Orltaln Amount In USS MllHoDn          Dlsb    msen
Prodet ID      ProjetN Nam                            Deylopment   Inmlfinetation   Firs  Year       EDRD    IDA      GE     CanceL    UndLsb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
Objectives     Prgrs
P007490        PUBLIC SECrOR MODERNIZATION                S             S             1997             28.4   0       0       0           103      10.3      10.3
P067774        SOCIALSAFErYNET                            S             S             2002              40    0       0       0          38.6      -1.4
P074641        HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL            S             S             2002             15.0   0       0       0           15.0        0
Total            83.4   0       0       0          63.9       8.9      10.3
a. Intnded disbursements to date aunus acual disbursements to date as pmjected at appraisal.
LansCredlits Summary In USD    As of July 31, 2002
Original Principal                    1,531,000,000             0    1,531,000,000
Cancellations                           100,589,479             0      100,589,479
Disbursed                              1,365,906,376            0    1,365,906,376
Undisbursed                              64,504,145             0      64,504,145
Repaid                                  921,264,592             0     921,264,592
Due                                     443,064,920             0     443,064,920
Exchange Adjustment                     -12,492,860             0      -12,492,860
Borrower's Obligation                   430,572,060             0     430,572,060
Sold 3rd Party                            1,576,864             0        1,576,864
Repaid 3rd Party                          1,576,864             0        1,576,864
Due 3rd Paty                                     0              0              0
Statement of FC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 08/31100
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                  Disbursed
FY Approval    Company                                                                Loan         Equity    Quasi   Panic   Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
1995/97    Jamaica Energy Partners Old Harbour Diesel Project                     13.24        0.00      0.00    29.35   13.24    0.00      0.00      29.35
2001/02    Mossel                                                                 42.00         8.00     0.00    5.78    42.00     8.00     0.00       5.78
2002      MBJA Loirted                                                           20.00        0 00      0.00   25.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                                            75.24        8.00      0.00   60.13    55.24    8.00      0.00      35.13
99



100



ANNEX IX. JAMAICA AT A GLANCE
Jamaica at a glance                                                             9/17/02
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Ameilca   middle-
Jamaica   & Carib.  Income      Development diamond
2001
Population, mid-year (mIllions)                      2.7       524     2,164                Ufe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US5)                 2.740     3,560     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     7.3      1.862    2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                       0.9       1.5       1.0     GN
Laborforce (%)                                        1.5      22        1.2     GNI                            Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populatIon below natonalpoverty'line)   17
Urban population (% of total populallon)              57        76       46
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       75        70       69
Infant mortality (per 1t000 live births)  -           25        29       33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             4         9        1 1         Access to Improved water source
Access to an Iiproved water source (% of population)  84        85        80
Illiteracy (%of population age 15+)                   13        11       15
Gross prmary enrollment (% ofschool-ape populatIon)   98       130       107             Jamalca
Male                                                97       131       107             Lower-middle-lncome group
Female                                              98       128       10i
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
198i     1991      2000     2001      EconomIcatlo-
GDP (US$ billions)                           3.0     4.0       7.6       8.0
Gross domestic bnveslmentlGDP               20.3    24.6      28.3      28.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP           47.2    51.0      46.7      42.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savIngs/GDP                  11.7    23.4      17.2      15.8
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                     9.8     17.7     22.7      21.1
Current account balanoe/GDP                -10.5     -6.3     -5.7       7.5     DomesticI
Interest payments/GDP                        3.7     4.8       2.6       3.2        sg                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                              77.6    109.2      55.9     61.3
Total debt service/exports                  25.4'    30.8      16.8     17.4
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01    2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.7      1.1      1.1       1.1      2.4              Jamralca
GDP per capita                      1.6      0. 0    0.6       -0.2      1 7               Lower-mad7e-4ncome group
Exports of goods and services       6.0      0.3     .3.6      4.3       3.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000     2001      Growth of Inventment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       15
Agriculture                                  7.5     7.3       6.4       65
Industry                                   35.6     42.4      27.2      30 25
Manufacturing                             16.7     18.0      10.1      12.9
Services                                    57.0    50.4      66.4      63 3     N
Private consumption                         67.7    64.8      67.1      67 3     -is
General govemment consumption               20.6     11.8      15.7     16.9              -GDI            SGDP
Imports ot goods and services              55.8     52.2      57.7      54.6
1981-91  199141       2000     2001      Growth ot exports and Imports (%)
(average annual crowth)
Agnculture                                   1.4     0.0      -7.3       3.0    is
Industry                                    3.2     -0.3       0.8       1.0    10
Manufacturing                              2.6     -1.5       0.8       1.0 s
Services                                    2.4      5.2       2.1       1.0     o
Private consumption                         3.3      4.6       0.8       3.9    -s      96   97 9e           s or
General govemment consumption               5.8      4.8      -3.7       8.8    |10
Gross domestic tnvestment                   2.3      3.1       10.7      3.0                  Exports    e   mports
Imports ot goods and services               8.0      4.4       8.0       0.5
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estmates. Data prior to 1997 are In calendar year, data from 1997/98 are In Jamaican fiscal year (April 1 - March 31).
Data for 2000 reters to 2000/01 and 2001 rafers to 2001/02.
* The diamonds show tbur key Indicators in the country Cin bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
101



Jamaica
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic pries
(% change)                                                                      30
Consumer prices                             11.9    51.0       7.7       8.0    20
Implcit GDP deflator                         8.4    49.2       9.9      9.3     Is
l0.
Govemment finance                                                                5
(% of GDP, Indudes current grants)                                               o                       .    - 
Current revenue                             28.3    29.2      29.5      27.7           9B    97    99    99    oo    ol
Current budget balance                      -4.0     7.4       1.3      -2.9                 GOP deflator 9CPi
Overall surplus/deficIt                    -16.0     4.3      -0.9      -5.7   --DP deflator                C         I
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         974    1,151     1,515     1,436    4000
AlumIna                                    588     543       676      630     3.500
Bauxite                                    172     113        56        98    3,0*0
Manufactures                                69      63        43       47     a*
Total imports (cf)                         1,471   1,829     3,451     2,949           *
Food                                       102      91       262         ..    00
Fuel and energy                           489      325       618         ..    S
Caplal goods                               295     398       497      541        o
99   99  97    se  99   00   0f
Export prde Index (1995-100)                 58       90       118      116
Importpriceindex(1995=I0O)                   58       90       117      116                *iEqports    *tnrorts
Temns of trade (1995-= 100)                 100      100       101      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mililons)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP(%)
Exports of goods and services              1,406   2,183     3,562     3,360     o
Imports of goods and services              1,663   2.207     4,406     4,368    .,-
Resource balance                           -257      -24      -844    -1,008    -2
Net Inoome                                  -179    -484      -414      458
Net current transfers                       124      253       831      879 
Current account balance                    -312     -256      -427     -587
Financing items (net)                       224      402     1,010      985     -7
Changes In net reserves                      88     -146      -583     -398     _
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)        ..      ..     1,368     1,748
Corrversion rate (DEC, locaW1US$)            1 8    12.1      44.1      46.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   CompositlIon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,313   4,413      4,269    4,900
IBRD                                      212      664       415      443
IDA                                         0        0         0        0               G 875        443C: 40
Total debt service                          382      692       643      645
IBRD                                       21      121        83       74                                     6 .D s57
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
ComposItion of net resource fltws
Otflcial grants                            11      282        39       42
Officialcreditors                         338      121        29     -112                                     912
Private creditors                         -43      -83       442      773
Foreign direct Investment                 -12      133       529      448           F: t973
Portfolio equity                            0        0       -62      -54
World Bank program
Commitments                                45       42        75      185      A - IBRD                  E - silateral
Disbursements                              43       43        98       91      B - IDA  D- Other rrnjltflateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        7       62        60       52      C - IMF                   G - Shod-term
Net flows                                  36      -19        37       39
Interest payments                       * 14        59        22       22
Net transfers                              22      -78        15       17
Development Economics                                                                                            9/17/02
102



ANNEX X. KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Jamaica - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                   Projected
Indicator             1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05 2005/06
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'               100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                           7.3      6.7     6.4     6.5     6.7      6.8     6.9     6.9
Industry                             27.4     27.1    27.2    30.2    30.3     30.0    29.4    28.8
Services                             65.3     66.2    66.4    63.3    63.0     63.2    63.7    64.2
Total Consumption                      81.3    82.7     82.8    84.2    83.6    82.8     81.8    81.4
Gross domestic fixed investment        26.2    25.7    28.1     28.3    28.2    28.3     28.2    28.0
Government investment                 2.5      2.8     2.5     2.5     2.4      2.4     2.4     2.4
Private investment                   23.7     22.9    25.6    25.8    25.8     25.8    25.7    25.5
Exports (GNFS)b                        44.5    45.5    46.7     42.0    42.3    42.2     42.2    41.8
Imports (GNFS)                         52.1    53.9     57.7    54.6    54.3    53.5     52.4    51.4
Gross domestic savings                 18.7    17.3     17.2    15.8    16.4     17.2    18.2    18.6
Gross national savingsC                23.4    21.6     22.7    22.5    22.6    23.0     23.4    23.7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                 7544    7532    7635    7996     8395    8914    9475    10052
(US$ million at current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)    2730     2700    2730    2740     2840    3010    3210     3410
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1986 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -0.4  0.1     1.1     1.1      2.0     2.5     2.5     2.5
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1986 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -1.2  -0.4   -0.6    -0.2      1.0     1.8     3.4      2.4
Total consumption                     -0.3     1.2    -0.9     2.3      0.5     0.8     2.0      2.0
Private consumption                   -1.1     0.4    -0.8     2.6      1.1     0.4     2.2      1.8
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                      3354     3423    3562    3360     3550    3763    4003     4207
Merchandise FOB                     1552    1550    1515    1436     1498    1593    1712     1790
Imports (GNFS)b                      3928    4063     4406    4368    4560    4765     4962    5170
Merchandise FOB                    2665     2744    2969    2949     3080    3201    3334     3468
Resource balance                      -574    -639    -844   -1008    -1010   -1003    -959     -964
Net current transfers                 638      695     831     879      978    1019    1047     1086
Current account balance              -219     -317    -427    -587     -606    -609    -599     -590
Net private foreign direct investment  309     359     530     448      523     546     574     639
Long-term loans (net)                 106     -111     492     603      240     182      180     171
Official                             -127    -104      29    -112      189     110     178      185
Private                              233       -7     463     715       51      72       2      -14
Other capital (net, incL errrs & omnissions)  -210  -52  -12   -66      -43     -45     -46      -47
Change in reservesd                    13      122    -583    -398     -114     -74    -109     -174
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)            -7.6    -8.5   -11.1    -12.6   -12.0   -11.2    -10.1    -9.6
Real annual growth rates ( YR86 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)             -7.2    -9.5    -4.8     -3.9     4.8     2.6      3.6     1.0
Primary                              -7.4    -9.4     -4.9    -4.3     5.1     2.7      3.7     1.0
Manufactures                         -4.2   -12.6    -4.4     10.8    -2.7     1.3      1.4     1.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)             -1.4   -11.1     10.0     0.7     5.0     0.4      0.4     0.5
(Continued)
103



Jamaica - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                   Projected
Indicator              1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05 2005/06
Public rmance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                       26.4    28.9    29.5     27.7    29.1    29.4     29.5    29.4
Current expenditures                   30.4    31.2    28.2     30.6    31.1    30.0     28.5    26.9
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  -4.0  -2.3  1.3     -2.9    -2.0    -0.7      1.0     2.5
Capital expenditure                     3.0     2.8     2.8      2.7     2.5     2.5      2.8     2.8
Foreign financing                       1.6    -1.2    -3.2      8.7     4.7      1.5     3.3     2.4
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 28.6    30.7    30.1     29.0    29.2    29.3     29.4    29.4
Growth of M2 (%)                       11.9    16.4     8.9      6.7     9.0     9.0      9.0     8.7
Price indices( YR86 =100)
Merchandise export price index        172.7   190.5   195.6    192.9   191.9   198.9    206.2   213.4
Merchandise import price index        149.7   165.3   164.6    139.6   138.9   143.8    149.2   154.4
Merchandise terms of trade index      115.4   115.3   118.8    138.1   138.1    138.2   138.2   138.2
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)t         0.85     0.86    0.86       ..      ..
Consumer price index (% change)         8.1     6.3     7.7      8.0     5.8     6.0      6.1     6.1
GDP deflator (% change)                 6.8     8.6     9.9      9.3     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Central govermnent.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
104



ANNEX XI. KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
Jamaica - Key Exposure Indicators
-----Actual---------  Estimate  -----------Projected-------
Indicator              1998    1999    2000    2001     2002    2003    2004     2005
Total debt outstanding and            4024    3921     4269    4952    5188    5364     5548    5777
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
of which:
Public and Publicly Guaranteed (PPG)  3100    2900     3356    3947    4269    4391     4664    4862
Short Term and Private Non-Guaranteed  810     927      853     965     897     964      883     915
IMF Credit                             105      83       60      40      22        8       1       0
Net disbursements (US$m)'               78    -221      464     654     269      190     191     230
Total debt service (TDS)               524     732      643     644     797      810     885    1035
(US$m)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                            112.0   106.4    111.3   133.9   133.0    127.6   123.3   122.2
TDO/GDP                              53.3    52.1     55.9    61.9    61.8    60.2     58.6    57.5
TDS/XGS                              14.6    19.9     16.8    17.4    20.4     19.3    19.7    21.9
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                    21.2     14.7    15.9    12.3     8.0      8.3     7.7     6.1
Preferred creditor DS/public         41.5    28.8     38.0    31.2    24.2     25.0    22.6    18.5
DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                           2.8     2.7      2.2     2.0     1.6      1.6     1.5      1.3
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                     409     393      415     443     495     497      517     565
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)          0.35    0.33     0.34    0.36    0.41     0.41    0.43    0.48
IDA TDO (US$m)4                         0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
Memo:
IPC (US$m) /c                          27.0    24.2    19.1     27.6    63.7
Loans                                25.1    22.3     17.2    27.6    55.7
Equity and quasi-equity /e            1.9     1.9      1.9     0.0     8.0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m) /f              ..    98.6     97.3    93.8    135.0
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMP credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, IPC, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
f. Gross outstanding guarantees.
105















IMAGING
Report No.: P              7527     JM
Type:         PR
___________________________________________________________________-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



