Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7150-JM 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
JAMAICA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 31, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7150-JM 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 2002, between JAMAICA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by providing a loan to the Borrower under the Loan Agreement 
dated December 6, 2000 (Loan No. 7036-JM), the Bank has assisted the Borrower in 
support of the first phase of the Borrower’s actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s financial sector (the First Phase of the 
Program), as such First Phase of the Program was described in the letter, dated October 
19, 2000, from the Borrower to the Bank; 
 
(B) 
the Bank has received a letter, dated September 10, 2002, from the 
Borrower (the Letter of Sector Development Policy):  (i)  describing the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic framework and actions, objectives and policies (the Program) as revised 
since the letter referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions taken under 
the First Phase of the Program, actions taken as described in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement (the Second Phase of the Program) and actions and policies that the Borrower 
intends to pursue in the future;  (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(D) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
Page  3
-
2
-
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Bank of Jamaica” means the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b) 
“Basle Core Principles” means international standards for banking 
supervision and regulation as adopted by the Bank of International Settlements in Basle, 
Switzerland; 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d) 
“FINSAC” means Financial Sector Adjustment Company Limited, the 
Borrower’s financial crisis management agency, established in 1997; 
(e) 
“FIS” means Financial Institutions Services Limited, the Borrower’s 
institution that preceded FINSAC, originally established to wind down the operations of 
certain failed financial groups; 
(f) 
“FSC” means the Financial Services Commission of the Borrower, 
created pursuant to the FSC Act; 
(g) 
“FSC Act” means the Financial Services Commission Act of the 
Borrower, No. 9-2001, duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on July 30, 2001, 
which established the FSC, as said Act has been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Insurance Act” means the Insurance Act of the Borrower, duly 
published in the Borrower’s official gazette on December 21, 2001, as said Act has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(i) 
J$” means Jamaican Dollars, the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(j) 
“Life of Jamaica” means Life of Jamaica Limited, an insurance company 
duly incorporated under the laws of Jamaica; 
(k) 
“NCB” means National Commercial Bank Jamaica Limited; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(l) 
“NPLs” means defaulted loans from Jamaican financial institutions 
acquired by FINSAC; 
(m) 
“SMP” means the Staff Monitored Program agreed between the 
Borrower and the International Monetary Fund in July 2000, and amended in December 
2001; and 
(n) 
“Supervisory Ladder of Enforcement” means the set of guidelines that 
the Bank of Jamaica follows in its banking intervention activities, as set forth in the 
“Guide to Intervention by Bank of Jamaica in Conduct of Supervised Financial
 
Institutions”, issued by Bank of Jamaica in October 2000. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventy-five 
million Dollars ($75,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $74,250,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Second Phase of the Program, minus any amounts 
withdrawn by the Bank to pay itself pursuant to Section 2.09 (c) below. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain, in the Bank of Jamaica, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account (except as set forth in Section 2.04 and 2.09 (c) of 
this Agreement) shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; and  
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice the Borrower 
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank in respect of (i) and (ii) above, as the 
case may be, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date November 4, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance and Planning 
 
Attention:  The Financial Secretary 
 
30
National Heroes Circle 
 
Kingston 4, Jamaica 
 
Facsimile: 
 
876-924-9291 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
JAMAICA 
 
By  /s/ Seymour Mullings 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Mauricio Carrizosa 
 
Acting Authorized Representative 
Latin America and the Caribbean  
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation.
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2009 
 
through August 15, 2018 
5.00 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
Page  16
-
15
-
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has been undertaking periodic scheduled reviews of performance 
as agreed under the SMP. 
2. 
The Borrower:  (a) has explicitly assumed, as part of its domestic public debt, all 
FINSAC liabilities outstanding as of March 31, 2001; and (b) has been making full 
interest payments in cash on all such assumed liabilities to private financial institutions. 
3. 
FINSAC has not incurred any additional liabilities over and beyond those 
identified in the SMP. 
4. 
The Borrower has used all funds from Loan No. 7036-JM, and has committed to 
use all funds from the Loan, to reduce Borrower debt held by private financial 
institutions. 
5. 
In addition to the restructuring of FINSAC’s debt held by the Bank of Jamaica 
(supported by Loan No. 7036-JM), the Borrower has taken the steps set forth in the 
Memorandum of Understanding dated September 9, 2002, regarding the “Resolution of 
the Bank of Jamaica Losses”. 
6. 
FINSAC has provided all proceeds from its recoveries of NPLs and non-core 
assets, net of operating expenses, to the Borrower.  The Borrower has used these funds to 
service its bonds replacing FINSAC liabilities. 
7. 
The Borrower has sold its entire equity in NCB to a private party. 
8. 
The Borrower:  (a) has sold 75% of FIS’s commercial real estate assets 
administered by FINSAC, and 98% of FIS’s
 
residential real estate assets administered by 
FINSAC; (b) has closed FINSAC operations as of June 30, 2002; (c) has transferred 
FINSAC’s remaining asset administration and legal responsibilities to FIS; and (d) has 
provided the Bank with a satisfactory strategy for management, disposal, and winding 
down of the assets referred to in (c) above.
 
9. 
The Borrower has sold to a private party FINSAC’s entire NPL portfolio.
 
10. 
The Borrower has sold its entire equity in Life of Jamaica to a private party. 
Page  18
-
17
-
11. 
Legislation has been passed by the Borrower’s legislature providing to the Bank 
of Jamaica greater independence and broader intervention powers by:  (a)  granting the 
Bank of Jamaica powers of temporary management of deposit-taking financial 
institutions;  (b)  granting the Bank of Jamaica the legal and administrative powers to 
impose penalties in cases of certain technical breaches of statute by financial institutions;  
(c)  upgrading the schedule of fines and penalties for non-compliance by financial 
institutions;  (d)  transferring all the supervisory powers of the Minister of Finance and 
Planning to the Bank of Jamaica, except the power to grant and revoke bank licenses and 
the power to vest shares of institutions; and (e)  granting to the Bank of Jamaica:  (i)  
extended jurisdiction over non-banking institutions that are part of a banking group, and 
(ii)  the power to require the restructuring of a financial group. 
12. 
The Bank of Jamaica has undertaken an independent assessment of the Basle 
Core Principles.  Subsequently, it has adopted a plan and begun undertaking specific 
training initiatives and capacity building measures thereunder in supervision and 
regulation of market risk exposure of supervised entities towards achieving full 
compliance with the Basle Core Principles. 
13. 
A Financial Regulatory Council, consisting of representatives of the Bank of 
Jamaica, the FSC, the Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Jamaica Deposit 
Insurance Corporation:  (a) has been established and is functioning satisfactorily, for the 
purpose of coordinating the supervision of financial institutions; and (b) has provided 
reports
 
to the Minister of Finance and Planning on technical guidance provided to the 
respective regulatory bodies. 
14. 
The Borrower’s legislature has enacted the Bank of Jamaica (Amendment) Act, 
2002 (No. 17-2002), the Banking (Amendment) Act, 2002 (No. 11-2002) and the 
Financial Institutions (Amendment) Act (No. 10-2002) to include provisions dealing with 
consolidated supervision and market risk.  Guidelines in respect of risk management, 
inclusive of market risks, have been drafted by the Bank of Jamaica.
 
15. 
The Bank of Jamaica, by amendments thereto in 2001 and 2002, has updated its 
Supervisory Ladder of Enforcement. 
16. 
A bill of law for the creation of credit bureaus has been drafted by the 
Borrower’s executive and submitted for public consultation prior to its presentation to the 
Borrower’s legislature. 
17. 
The FSC has been established and is functioning satisfactorily. 
18. 
The new Insurance Act has been enacted and is in line with international best 
practices, as determined by the Bank. 
Page  19
-
18
-
19. 
The FSC has issued regulations, acceptable to the Bank, governing FSC 
activities, and has continued strengthening its supervisory capacity through training under 
a
plan satisfactory to the Bank. 
20. 
The FSC has taken the following steps to strengthen supervision of non-bank 
financial institutions:  (a)  hired consultants for the design of software for financial 
solvency analysis; and (b) designed two risk-based modules (one for general insurance 
supervision and the other for life insurance supervision) and began undertaking on-site 
supervision. 
21. 
The Borrower has committed to take the following actions to further strengthen 
the insurance sector’s regulatory framework:  (a)  issue regulations to harmonize the rules 
regarding changes in control (acquisitions, transfer and amalgamation) of insurance 
providers with the licensing requirements therefor;  (b)  issue regulations to monitor 
market conduct principles and protection of policy holders’ interests (fair treatment);  (c)  
introduce non-binding consultation with other boards or agencies and representatives of 
the insurance industry in the appointment of at least one member of the FSC’s Board; and 
(d)  revise regulations to better define standards (i.e., international ratings) for selection 
of foreign re-insurers, including the creation of a registry of admitted re-insurers that 
comply with said standards. 
22. 
The FSC has provided the Bank with a time-bound plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to complete training of its supervisory staff. 
 
