Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C i-2  22 7   -1
Repwt No. P-5525-ANG
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATI(NAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 17.1 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
MAY 24, 1991
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank a.uthorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(as of March 31, 1991)
Currency Unit - New Kwanza
Official Rate: US$l = NKz6O.OO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DNIC        Directorate of Investment of the Ministry of Planning
GARE        Enterprise  Restructuring  Unit  of  the  Ministry  of
Planning
IMF         International Monetary Fund
INE         National Statistical Institute
MPLA        People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
SEF         Economic and Financial Restructuring Program
UNDP        United National Development Program
UNITA       National Union for the Total Independence of Angola



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ANGOLA
ECMONOIC MANAEMENT CAPAITY BUILDING PROEC
CEIT AD PROJET SUMMARY
Borr-owexr                    People's Republic of Angola
g"enf iciariers tMinistries of Planning, Finance, Commerce,
Labor   and   Agriculture   and   National
statistical Institute
Proiegt Summary:              The project would help  finances  (a)  a
program of training to build up local
skills   in   economic   and   financial
management,    accounting,    procurement,
project  analysis  and  statistics;  (b)
technical    assistance,    studies    and
logistical support to improve economic
management and facilitate the transition
towards a market-oriented economic system,
including  a  pilot  program  for  the
privatization    and    liquidation    of
parastatals;  and  (c)  supervislin  and
project management to closely monitor
project implementation.
Amount:                       SDR 17.1 million (US$ 23.0 million)
Tormss                        Standard IDA Terms, with 35 years maturity
Onlendina Terms:              Not applicable.
linangino Plan:                (us$ million)
=oAl t of -Total
IDA                           23.0      88
Government                     3.1       12
Total                         26.1      100
Economlc Rate or Returns      Not applicabie.
Staff Aoraigal Reloort:       None
mm                           IBRD No. 22857
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the prform;nce
of their oi1lciai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorlktldonI



MBMOMIIDUX AND RMCOIMODMATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTBRNATIOCAL DEVWLOPMBNT ASSOCIATION
Tn THE EXECU$TVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPSB1'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
1.          The following memorandum and recommendation an a proposed
credit to Angola for SDR 17.1 million (US$ 23.0 million equivalent) is
submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA
terms with 35 years maturity and would help finance the strengthening of
Angola's economic management capacity. This would be the first operation
supported by the Bank Group in Angola. Part I of the present document
describes the country's policies and the Bank's assistance strategy. it
draws upon the latest Country Brief for Angola, which was distributed to
the Executive Directors in January 1991, as well as an Introductory
Economic Review (Report No. 7283-ANG) which was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1990.  Social indicators are presented in
Schedule E. I/
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND SANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRAITGY
Backar-ound
2.          Angola, with a population of about 10 million, growing at an
annual rate of about 2.8 peroent, is one of the richest countries in
Africa in terms of natural resource endowment (e.g., oil, diamonds, and
fertile land). At the same time, its economy is one of the most distorted
of the continent. Since independence in 1975, the country has developed
an economy highly dependent on income from oil. Available statistics on
Angola are poor and should be treated with caution. GNP per capita, which
is estimated at US$620 in 1989, is closely linked to oil prices. The oil
sector represents about half of the GDP. in 1991, oil export earnings
were about US$3 billion, or about US$300 per capita. The oil industry,
developed as an enclave, has grown rapidly since 1975, and by early 1991,
oil production reached about 460,000 barrels per day. By contrast, the
non-oil sector's performance has been poor since independence.  it is
estimated that non-oil sector's output growth per capita has been negative
since the early 1980's. Angola, which was an important net exporter of
agricultural products before independence, has In recent years been
increasingly dependent on food imports (and food aid) to supply its urban
population. The capacity utilization of existing and the development of
new manufacturing industries has been severely affected by the lack of
inputs, spare parts and maintenance services, as well as by a distorted
policy environment.
3.          The  Government's  failure  to  revive  the  economy  after
independence is largely explained by three factors: (i) a fifteen-year old
civil war, which has made much of the countryside too insecure for
agricultural production and transport, has required heavy military
expenditures (contributing to chronically large fiscal deficits, despite
substantial revenues from oil), and has destroyed a substantial part of
the economic and social infrastructure; (ii) unusually severe human
resource constraints, due to the massive exodus of Portuguese settlers at
independence; and (iii) misguided economic policies which have created a
highly distorted system with a formal economy (largely public) managed by
administrative controls, and a large parallel economy (mostly private).
Economic. Financial and Social Performance
4.          Since independence, the Angolan economy has been ravaged by
a long and costly civil war and by severe distortions commonly observed in
Z./ A detailed table on economic indicators is not presented, due to the
lack of data. Available indicators are presented in the text table
(page 2).



centrally-planned  economies.    The  fall of domeotic production and
agricultural exports that occurred after independence was primarily caused
by the destruction of the country's stock of human and physical capital,
and aggravated by macroeconomic policise which favored consumption. In
response to adverse domestic conditions and external shocks which reduced
the country's resources, the Government resorted to rigld price controls
and a system of administratively allocated foreign exchange, instead of
appropriate price policies (exchange rate adjustments, corrections in
relative prices) and fiscal adjustments. An expansionary monetary policy
maintained the level of domestic consumption, mostly in the urban areas,
at the expense of investments to increase the productive base of the
economy.
5.          In many cases, official prices have not been changed since
independence, and the few price adjustments which have taken place have
been very modest when compared with increases in the nominal purchasing
power of the population. As a consequence of these pricing policies, the
domestic production of many goods has been discouraged, relative prices
have been severely distorted, waste in the consumption of aome goods has
been stimulated, and wide gaps have appeared between the demand and the
supply of practically all goods and services. The exchange rate, which
has been pegged to the US$, was unchanged at 29.92 Ks per US$ between 1975
and March 1991, when it was adjusted to 60.00 NRK per US$. Exchange rates
prevailing in the parallel market have, however, sometimes been as high as
a hundred times  the  official  rate.    In the  absence of  adequate
adjustments, the exchange rate became overvalued and excess demand for
foreign exchange was curtailed through administrative controls.  As a
result of these policies and the hostilities, investment in the non-oil
sector dropped substantially, traditional agricultural exports practically
disappeared, non-oil domestic output per capita declined, and the country
became almost exclusively dependent on oil and diamond exports for its
foreign exchange earnings.
6.          To compensate for the shrinking domestic (non-oil) production
per capita, growing imports financed by oil income supplied the country
with consumption goods.   Government policies encouraged consumption
through widespread consumer price subsidies, the accumulation of sizeable
fiscal deficits and a system of remuneration "in kind" to Government
personnel. More specifically, to protect the purchasing power of workers
in the formal sector, particularly civil servants, the Government
introduced a system of "buying rights" in official shops (supplied with
imported consumer goods) in partial lieu of cash payments of wages.
Through this system, a relatively small portion of the population has
access to the bulk of the country's imported consumer goods, at prices
that are substantially below those prevailing in the parallel market.
Government employees, in turn, trade part of these goods in the parallel
market for food and consumption goods which are unavailable in official
shops (e.g., vegetables, fish, etc). Manufacturing enterprises also sell
part of their production at low prices to their own employees, who also
trade on the parallel market.
7.          Lack of financial discipline is a serious problem at all
levels of public administration and enterprises. A growing part of the
formal economy has been financed through oil revenues, which in recent
years have provided over 80 percent of government income. In spite of the
rapid growth of oil revenues since 1986, the budget has consistently been
in deficit as non-oil revenue declined continuously, while expenditures
remained at high levels.   A large share of government expenditure,
including most of the military expenditure, is outside the budget. It is
estimated that military expenditures represent about 25 percent of CDP.
In 1988-90, the overall budget deficit (including extra budgetary
expenditure) was on average equivalent to about one quarter of CDP at
official prices. However, the underlying deficit valued at more realistic
prices is estimated to be lower (about 12 percent).



- 3 -
8.          .hroughout the pogt-independence period, an accommodating
monetary policy fully monetized the country's sizeable fiscal deficits.
As a result, a growing excess liquidity rapidly emerged but its
inflationary impact did not show up in the official price indices because
of the administratively controlled official prices. These policies led to
the emergence of widespread parallel markets. price differentials between
the official and parallel markets rapidly attained 2,000% to 10,000%.
This, in turn, reinforced the existing incentives to divert resources from
the official to the parallel economy. Money substLtutes (such as imported
beer) and barter took on an increasing role ln Lnternal trade, further
compllcating the management of monetary policy. Annual inflation in the
parallel market is estimated to have reached three-digit levels during
1987-90.
9.          Foreign and domestic trade have been hampered by rigld and
pervasive  Government  regulatlons  and  restrLctions.    There  is  a
predominance of LneffLeLent public enterprises, not only in manufacturLng,
but also in forelgn trade, wholesaling, and ln the retall network.
Although there are some private enterprises, thelr role ln providlng
competltion to the public sector is weak, because of the administratlve
allocation of imports and fixed proflt margine imposed by the Government.
Agricultural production has been particularly affected by the war, the
shortcomings of the trade system, and the disappearance of bush traders.
In the earlier period of its economlc history, when the country was not
engulfed in armed conflicts, bush traders had played an important role ln
the marketing and distributLon system by providing consumer goods in
exchange for agricultural products.
10.         Angola's external debt at end-1989 is estimated at over US$7
billion (including US$1 blllon ln interest arrears), of whlch about
US$3.5 billion was owed to the Sovlit Union, US$2.8 blllion to Parli Club
and other Western creditors (maLnly Brazil and Portugal), and the
remainder to Eastern European  countries and Cuba.   External debt
represents about 100 percent of GDP. About one-third of the total debt is
military.   In June 1989, the SovLet Unlon rescheduled lts loans on
favorable terms (10 years and 3 percent), Lncludlng arrears and maturLtLes
falllng due through 1990. In July 1989, the Parls Club rescheduled almost
US$0.5 billion in arrears and maturitles fallLng due through September
1990; the other Western credLtors rescheduled their own debt on the same
terms.   The remainlng maturity profile is unfavorable, with payments
bunched over the perlod 1991-93.   Thus, scheduled debt servlce would
absorb about one-thlrd of projected exports of goods and servLces ln 1991-
93. Assuming further Soviet rescheduling at terms comparable to those of
1989, and "Toronto terms" for Western credltors, overall debt-servLcing
*           capacity of the exLitLng debt could be suffLcient to handle the flow of
debt-servlce payments ln the medlum term, without compromisLng the long-
term debt profile of the country. However, the problem of arrears will ln
itself requLre an orderly resolutlon. Given the above, Angola's capacity
to service additlonal debt at non-concessional terms is very limited.
11.         The soclal conditions prevaliLng ln Angola are poor by Afrlcan
standards. This Ls the comblned result of the clvll war, Lnappropriate
policLes, rapid mlgratlon to the citles and emLgration of skilled
manpower. Life expectancy at blrth has been estimated at 44 years, the
lnfant mortality rate is 288 per thousand, lses than 30 percent of the
populatLon has access to health services and safe water, and despLte the
Government's achievements ln the fleld of education, the adult llteracy
rate Ls still 41 percent. DiLparLty in social conditLons among various
reglons are substantial, as a result of the war-Lnduced destruction.
Poverty ln the rural areas is acute. in addLtLon to the stagnation in
economlc activLty, the maln contrLbuting factors for rural poverty are:
the interruptLon of normal links to the cities , the drastic decline of
inter-regLonal trade, lack of incentive goods, and the lack of access to
social servlces.



- 4 -
12.         These factors particularly affect women, considdring their
predominant involvement ln agricultural activities, and their greater
relative need for social services. Nevertheless, womn's access to basic
educational opportunities has been expanded and the current level of
lLteracy among women, although still low at 33 percent, is substantially
higher than in earlier years. Also, the Government has adopted a more
meritocratic approach to the assignment of responsibilities by gender than
is the case in most other Sub-Saharan African countries. Women figure
prominently in the civil service, includlng in high-level positions. In
fact, the person who will coordinat the execution of the proposed project
ia a woman. so is the person who headed the delegation which recently
visited Washington to negotiate the next credit t.o Angola, which will be
presented to the Executive Directors in FY92.
Itteogts at Economic Reform
13.         Recognizaing that Angolas economic distortions and imbalances
are due in large part to inappropriate economic policies, the Government
announced in 1987 an ambitious program of Sconomic and Financial
Restructuring  (SBr).   The basic objectives of the program were to
stabilize the economy and improve production incentives by adjusting price
levels (including the ezchange rate) in the formal economy. The proposed
reforms, had they been implemented, would have constituted a major
departure from the way the economy had been managed and included: (i) a
limited adjustment of the exchange rate, which would have still left a
wide murgin betwoen the official and the parallel exchange ratesl (Li) a
reduction in the budget deficit, and a corresponding reduction in
inflationary financing; (iii) a program for restructuring public
enterprises through divesture and liquidation; (lv) reform of the
financial sector by encouraging the establihment of commerclal banks and
ensuring greater availability of credit to the private sectori and (v)
limiting price controls to only selected essentlal goods.
14.         While  the  overall  direction  of  proposed  reforms  was
appropriate, the measures generally did not go far enough to address the
maln structural distortions, notably ln the area of the exchange rate. In
any event, with the exception of a more accommodating attitude towards
parallel market activities, there has been little progress to date in
implemnting the program.  Since 1988, several laws were adopted thit
attempted to provlde a broad framework for structural reform, but most of
them have not been applied. A new package of easures, Lncluding a 100
prcent devaluation, combined with wage increases and price liberalization
was announced in early 1990 as part of a New Action Plan. The exchange
rate adjustment, however, was postponed for over a year and the decontrol
of most prices is yet to be implemented.
15.         A recent "currency reform' in September 1990 (creation of a
new currency and tight limits on convertibility from the old currency)
temporarily brought down the prlces on the parallel market. However, this
attempt to reduce excess liquidity proved unsustainable. The experience
with this reform further undermined the public's already shaky
confidence in the Government's management of the economy. Inflation is
accelerating and the gap between official and parallel exchange rates is
widening to the range which existed prior to the Ocurrency reform". Yet
another attempt to put forth a more consistent and comprehensive set of
stabilization measures was made recently as part of the annual plan for
1991. Whilo reaffirming the Government's commitment to adjustment and
reform, this plan still does not represent the kind of comprehensive and
credible package of reform  whlch would be needed to address the
fundamental economic distortions of the Angolan economy. For example, the
100 percent devaluation implemented in March 1991, is insufficient to
address the substantial overvaluation of the New Ewanza.
16.         The absnce of concrete and coherent economic reform measures
to date may be attributed to various factors, including: (1) the
Governent's preoccupation with the war and, more recently, with an



intenifying peace  ros (s  paras. 18 and 19)1 (L) the strong vested
interests ln the existing systee  (LLU) the uncertainty with regad to the
political Lpact of reformo and (iv) weaknesses Ln econmc 
especially the liLted capacity for dgang and exeutLng    tld
action programs wlthin a consistent maroen            frw , and the
inadequate coordination betwen the princLpal act*-. in the polLiy making
17.         A  table sunarLig  Angola's economc performance sLnce 1986
iL  presnted below. As has already bee  noted, however, it L bsd on
statistical information whose accuracy is suspeat.  Aftor doeades of
warfare, lt ie highly lkely, for instance, that the data for the non-oil
sector is misleadLngly hlgh.  trthe statLitLcal base is one of
the objectlves of the p        crdit.
REL GBOWM RATS St
0DPt                               12.1     2l  15.2   13   28
an                                 26.2   28.1  24.7   03   4.7
sond-                              2.      Q5   28    2.2  04
GDP/3_piW                           93     93   12    -13    0
nawA DWPift                         0      3 43    0    .6   -2.4
NOMINAL GROWnI UTBISk
EupmIu  nf)                        .40     66    *     21   -3
hycs Opta)                        .-17     3    43      4    4
ATOS
D*SSW76                             ..      .    46    42   40
*oD_                               ..      ..    .      ..    .
GovI IgfDPW                        48      34   5      29
00apwixumwI                        Ss      46   do    54
Ov0f doh*Gp                        .10    -12  -25   4.5
CuM =co" 0 lm_s                    403    449  40    -20
CuwnsiasemVIl                       4      6    4       0
C rmm _pa                          103l.    103IA  17.7  17.7
Red =*p                             ..     ..   ..    ..
IUmLw='   I=            mmi
de osmf1980          Z 
ft 3s S oua. UUSpdas.-           a    ii       _h        b     _
jf 191-100



- 6-
Reant PolLtical Develo1ments
18.         War, be lt to ceek ladependence from Portugal or between the
Government and UNITA (NatLonal Unlon for the Total Independence of Angola)
in the post-Lndependence period, has been the domlnant fact of llfe in
Angola for decades. In recent months, however, there has been encouragLng
movement towards peace. The Government has, ln March 1991, opened the
door for a multiparty system through a revlslon of the constitution. In
May 1991, a cease-fire between MPLA (People's Movement for the LLberation
of Angola - the Government party) and UNITA forces was Lnitialled, and so
far, respected.   The cease-fire is part of a comprehensive agreement
settLng up a detalled timetable for the Lntegration of the two armles lnto
a national Angolan army, for the opening of the political system, and for
the organization of multiparty elections at all levels of government
before the end of 1992.  The implementation of both the millitary and
political aspects of the agreement would be monitored by a "PolitLcal-
Military Commission* comprising, besides the Government and UNITA,
representatives from Portugal (which acted as mediator) and the US and the
Soviet Union (both acted as observers). It would be assisted by a Unlted
Nations force of about 600. Formal signature of the peace agreement is
expected shortly.
19.         These developments clearly constitute a major breakthrough.
For the first time since independence, an end to the civil war seems to be
at hand. If successful, thls process would also significantly improve the
prospects for better economic management, including the reallocation of a
large amount of public resources from the military to development uses.
Over the short term, a number of remaining military and political iesues
will have to be solved. Among these, the orderly demobilization of about
150,000 soldiero from both armies is likely to constitute a major
challenge.
Central geveotment Issues and Prosngcts
20.         The medium-term economic prospects of Angola depend on five
factors. First, the conclusion of the civil war, which, in addition to
the heavy human cost, absorbs large amounts of financial resources and
interferes with economic activity. Second, the speed and determination
with which economlc policy reforms are undertaken, is crucial to restoring
confidence in the government's ability to manage the economy.  Third, the
urgent rehabilitation of the economic and social infrastructure, which has
been heavily damaged by decades of war. Fourth, there is a need to get
the economy -- especially lts non-oil productive sectors (e.g.,
agriculture) back on its feet. And finally, there is a need to overcome
the constraints on longer-term development imposed by the shortage of
skilled personnel and by envLronmental degradation. With peace and an
approprLate policy environment, Angola has considerable growth potential
in the medium term, in view of its abundant natural resource endowment.
21.         There is still, however, considerable uncertainty about the
prospects for economic recovery in the short term. Even if the war comes
to an end, it will likely take some time before the countryside is secure
and there is an effective transition to a peacetime economy. In addition,
during the 18 months electoral period which is expected to follow the
formal ceasefire, the prospect that the Government will be able to
concentrate on improvLng economic management is uncertain. The end of the
war may also not result in immediate savlngs of resourcesl demobilizatLon
will take time, the integration of the Government and UNITA forces lnto a
national army may requlre additLonal spending, and there are substantial
costs associated wlth the resettlement of displaced people. Moreover,
while there are large benefits to be gained from the rehabilitatlon of
Lafrastructure, realizing them will take tlme and require large
investments.   Flnally, despLte the Government's renewed commitment to
economic reform, weak economic management is a serious constraLnt.
Therefore, capacity building and technlial assistance -- of the sort the



proposed project would provide -- wll be crucLal ln strongthening policy
formulation and implementation.
22.         In vLew of these uncertalnties and the Bank's llmLted country
knowledge at thie stage, growth prospects and external resource
requlrements are dlfflcult to assess wlth any degree of accuracy.
However, given the expected substantial reconstruction needs and skllled
manpower constraints, lt is clear that international assistance will be
crucial during the post war reconstructLon phase. ThLi assiLtance would
have to consist mainly of economic policy advice, technical assistance in
general and pre-inveatmont studies in particulars, and financial aid for
infrastructure rehabilitation and development, as well as for facilitating
the transition to a peacetime economy.
Bank Groun Country AssLstance Stratecy and Oeratlions
23.         Angola joined the Bank Croup in September 1989 and the
proposed Economic Management Capacity BuLlding project would be the first
operation in the country. The relationship between the Bank and Angola
is, therefore, still at an inclpient state, and has not yet reached the
scope and intensity that is prevalent in the case of long-standing members
of the institution. The Bank's first strategic priority is, therefore, to
further nurture this relationship over the coming months by broadenLng the
dialogue on the country's development needs with the Angolan authorities
and the non-governmental sectors through lending operations, economic and
sector work, and aid coordination. As contact between the Bank Group and
Angola expands, confldence will grow and the dialogue can mature into the
type of partnershlp typlcal of other Borrowers.
24.         A broader dialogue would pave the way for the Bank to pursue
the objective of promoting economic growth with equLty in Angola. To
achiove these objectives, the Bank would follow an assistance strategy
basd ons (l) buildLng capaclty ln economic manag  nt and helping prepare
pre-Lnvestment stud$es; (LL) facilltating the tran stion to a peacetime
economy; (LLi) helping rehabliLtate the devastated economlc and social
lnfrastructurel and (iv) supporting the process of economic reform by
helping ln the deslgn and implementation of macroaeconomic and sector
policies needed to stabllize the economy and restore productlon
incentlves. The Bank would use considerable flexibliLty in desLgnaing lts
lending and economic and sector work programs ln Angola, ln view of the
uncertainty surrounding the economlc and politLcal sltuatlon ln the
country. The volume of lendlng and the number of operations wlll depend
on the Government's progress in implementLng the needed economic policy
reforms, on the restoration of peace, security and politlcal stabillty,
and on the ability of the country to effectively absorb Bank aseLstance.
25.                         * nLna Strateo. The lendlng program for the perlod FY91-93
comprLses an average of two operatLons per year. The londing strategy
revolves around three elements. The Lnitial focus will be on technical
assistance and pre-Lnvestment operations. Subsequently, the program would
expand  to  high-priorLty  rehabilltation  and  investment  projects,
partlcularly in infrastructure and the soclal sectors. Eventually, lf the
Government lmplements appropriat  policy reforms, the Bank would also
consider adjustment lending, if the country needs quLck-disbursement
assistance.
26.         The fLrst two operations ln the Angola lending program would
provLde technLcal asLsitance, training and engineerlrg services. They
Lnelude the proposed Economic Management Capacity BuLljing project and an
infrastructure EngLneerLng project to provLde asLitance ln formulating
polLcLes, strategLes and detailed pre-Lnvestment studies for the
rehabliLtatLon of key transport and urban lnfrastructure systems.
TechnLcal assistance components are also Lncluded ln other proposed
projects, notably support to improve planning and implementatLon capacity
ln the social sectors.



- 8 -
27.         The second element of the Bank' a lending strategy involves
assistance for rehabilitation and reconstruction of the economic and
*oclal infrastructure and devolopment of the productive sectors. Building
on eaperience to be gained with the planned social sector rehabilitation
project and proposed sector work in educatLon and related fields, several
operations focussing on buman resource dovelopment (especial'ly of women)
will be considered. RehabilLtatlon project are beLng prepared ln the
urban, energy and transport sectors, where the need for Lmuediate
rehabilltation can be clearly identified. Thle includes improvement of
essential urban infrastructure (e.g., water, sanltation, solid waste and
housLag) in the Lobito/Benguela area to reduco severe public health
hazards, and to ensure the viability of other Loblto corridor invaetments.
Based on the completed energy assessu_nt and a follow-up review of the
power sector investment program, a proposed operation ln the energy sector
would help to rehabilitate hlgh prlority power infrastructure and support
the financial rehabilltation of the power utilities. In transport, ln
addition to the pipeline of investment projecte whlch would emrge from an
infrastructure Engineering operation to be presented to the Executive
Director in the coming months, the Bank would focus on the Lobito/Benguela
rail corridor by rehabilitating present corridor infrastructure to enable
the system to handle medium-term transit and national traffic demand, and
establish the basiL for future upgrading and expansion of the network.
28.         The third element of the Bank's lending strategy consists of
financial support, lf needed, for the Government's economic adjustment
program, once the authorities have demonstrated a clear commitment to
comprehensive reforms by making suffLcient progress in adoptJing key policy
measures.
29.         Pergormance  Monitoring.    The  size  of  the  investment
operations, as well as the speed at which they could be processed would
depend on the evolving security situation, and on the Government's
progress in adopting sectoral reforms and improving implementatLon
capacity.   When the incentive framework iL  the productive sectors
improves, the Bank would undertake catalytic investments in these sectors
through  industrial  restructuring  and  agricultural  rehabilltation
operatLons. Greater security in the rural areas would be an essential
condition for agrLcultural operatlons, including protection of the
environment. Government performance in implementing the proposed Economic
Management Capaclty BuLlding project would also be an element taken into
account to determlne the sLse and composition of future lending.
Performance in macroeconomic management will be evaluated with respect to
actions designed to correct the overvaluatlon of the exchange rate,
liberalLsz prices, stabilize public flnances, improve production
incentives, and disengage the State from productlve and caomercial
activities. The volume of eventual quick-disbursing assistance would
depend on the country's financing roqulrements, which would themelves be
highly dependent on the evolution of the price of oil.
30.         ReonomLc and Sector Work. The key objectives of the economic
and sector work program are to support the policy dialogue with the
Government and to provide the intellectual underpinnings for the Bank's
lending operations. As executing agency for UNDP, the Bank undertook, in
1989-90, an Introductory Economic Review of Angola and an Energy
Assessment.   Following the c.impletLon of these reports, the Bank's
economlc work has focussed on selected lsues of economic reform, whlch
has provLded an input to the proposed Economic Management capacity
Building Project. A major report on Traft, Prlce, and Wage Reform has
been discuesed with the Goverment ln March 1991, and will be distributed
to the Executive Directors shortly. In the future, the Bank plans to
deepen its macroeconomLc dlalogue (lncludLng through joint mLssions wlth
the IMP) by inLtiating reviews of public expenditure and of public
enterprlese.  Sector work will focus on acquLring and broadenLng the
Bank's sector knowledge (in the productlve and social sectors), thus
contributlng to an expanding lendLng program and dialogue on sectoral
policy issues.



310         Donor coordinaion and Relains wLth the IMr. Many donors
havw been providing assistance to Angola for some tun. As the Bank
builds up its presence in Angola, however, it can be expected to play a
coordinating role because of its multlsectoral experiences  as well as the
overview provided by its economic and sector work. In paroll-l with the
potentLal build-up of the lending program and the dep"ning of the
understanding of Angola's economy, the Bank also plans to Lntensify its
aid coordination efforts. One of the objectives of the project presented
in this report is to help coordinate, where necess"ry, the various donor
efforts in certain key areas of technical assistance. A central concern
of this coordination effort is to avoid duplication of technical
assistance activities. The Bank has also been coordinating closely with
the zu in carrying out its initial podicy dialogue with the Govrnment,
and with the UMDP and bilateral donors in preparlag the components of the
proposed capacity building project.
32.         Summary As eesnt.   Angola has made little progress in
realizing its considerable development potential becaus oft (i) a
destructive, costly, and protracted civil war; (i) a severe lack of
skilled personnel, and (iii) misguided policies and weak economic
management, as well as an inadequate legal and regulatory framework. The
Bank's strategy is to "spring open" a relationship with this new member by
engaging the authorities in a dialogue on the country's development needs,
aupporting capacity building, helping to rehabilitate the devastated
economic and ocial infrastructure, facilitating the transition to a
peacetime economy, and supporting the process of economic reform. The
pace and scope of the Bank's assistance program will depend on Angola's
progress towards peace and security, implementation of economic reform
and improvements in absorptive capacity. The initial focus will be on an
active economic and sector work program and technical assistance lending
operations focussing on capacity building, notably in economic management,
and preparation of pre-investment studies.  If the security situation
improves significantly, a wider range of activities in infrastructure
rehabilitation would be supported.   If the Government improves the
incentive framework in the productive sectors, the Bank would expand its
operations and bring forward investments ln sectors such as agriculture
and industry.   Finally, the Dank would consider adjustment lending,
depanding on the progress in implementing comprehensive macroeconomlc
policy reforms as well as on the country's financing requirements, which
would largely hinge on the price of oil.
PAR? II - THE CRMDI?
33.         Economic management throughout Sub-Saharan Africa suffers from
a lack of adequate Lnstitutions and qualified manpower. The institutional
and human resource constraints ln Angola are even more severe than in most
parts of Africa, making the ned for capacity building more acute. First,
Angola is particularly handicapped by a lack of skilled manpower and weak
and inappropriate institutions.  The massive exodus in 1975 of about
300,000 Portuguese settlers who held practLcally all administrative,
managerial and skilled jobs before independence had a devastating effect
on the economy. The almost complete lack of access to education for
Angolans during the colonial era, and the lnefficiencies that have marked
much of the educational effort since indep nd ene, have left the vast
majority of the labor force functionally illiterate. Very few of those in
higher administrative and managerial positLons have been adequately
trained. Second, even the scarce available skills were in large part
being used for purposes other than macroeconomic management.    These
included the conduct of an internal war and the operation of various
economic enclaves such as the oil sector, diamond mining and the
construction of the large Capanda dam. Wlth the advent of peace, the need
to rebulld the economy and implement reform and the transformatLon to a



- 10 -
multL-party system will place increasingly heavy demands on the
administratLon.
34.         The weakness and fragmentation of the institutlonal framework
and the lack of qualified manpower Is felt particularly strongly at thli
juncture because of the Government's lntention to address the serious
problems posed by the distorted economic environment and to move towards
a market-orlented economy. These efforts, which are described in Part I
of this report, have shown clearly how ill prepared the authorities are
for undertaking such a complex task. Whlle they have been able to outllne
the broad objectives of a reform program, they are experiencing great
difficulty in implementlng a coordinated set of actLons with respect to
exchange rate,  fiscal,  monetary and  lncomes polLcLes.    Also,  the
experience of running a highly centralized and pervasive system of
planning  and  adminisIeratLve  controls  has  created  Lnappropriate
institutions and skills for operating a market-oriented economy. Thus,
together with an in-depth reform of the wage and incentive system,
extenslve retralning and reorientatlon of officlals will be required and
many of the existLng institutLons will need to be restructured or even
phased out. Some of the critical constraLnts to Angola's development lie
in the area of human resources and institutlons. Capacity building and
technical assistance are needed at all levels to develop an economic data
base, build up the analytical capacity, strengthen policy formulation, and
generally improve management skills.   Thls institutioral development
effort will necessarily take place in stages, requiring a series of well-
designed interventions.
IxLsting Technical AssiLtance in Anaola
35.         While the Bank has only recently become actlve in Angola,
other donors have been operating there for some time. Since the early
eighties, both Portugal and Hungary provided technical assistance,
primarLly in the diagnosis of economic problems and distortions. Since
1986, when macroeconomic imbalances where aggravated by the sharp decline
in oil prices and preparation of the SEP program got underway, the demand
for technical assistance to strengthen economic management has grown. The
Government asked UNDP to fund a complete diagnostic review of the economy,
and the Bank was asked to execute this review. The resultlng report,
issued in June 1990, assessed the structure and performance of the economy
and examlned the Government's home-grown economic reform program (SEF).
It concluded that the distorted economy was in critLcal condition and
urged the Government to immediately begin implementing an economic reform
program along SEP lines, but with major modiflcations.  As mentioned
earlier, the Government was unable to implement that program.
36.         UNDP has also been providing assistance to the Mlnistry of
Planning, prLmarlly for the strengthening of national accounts and other
statistLcs, and more recently, for the preparation of a 5-year plan for
economic reconstruction (together with the African Development Bank). The
U.N. Management Development Program has also provided some support in a
number of areas, including provLison of a public administration advlser
and training and statistlcal assistance for the public enterprise sector.
Technical assistance from other donors has included support from France on
fiscal issues; from the Bank of Portugal to the National Bank of Angola;
from the European Communlty to improve publLc investment programming; and
more recently, from Sweden through short-term missions focussing on the
design, implementation and monitoring of an economic adjustment program.
Recently the IMF has also provided technlcal assistance to Angola,
initially funded from lts own resources and now supported by an UNDP
project.  To provide the basis for its technical assistance, the IMF
undertook comprehensLve overview assessments of Angola's public finances,
flnanclal statLtics and the banking system. Following misslons by the
Flocal Affalrs, Central Banking and Statistics departments, the IMF has
developed   a  substantLal  technlcal  assistance  program   in  tax
administration, budget management, treasury operations, monetary pollcy



- 11 -
and financial system reform, as well as fiscal, monetary and balance of
payments statistics.
Rationale fQr IDA Sunnort
37.         Although some of the ongoing assistance described above has
begun to make a positive contribution, on the whole existing technical
assistance efforts remain scattered and lack the critical mass for
contributing  significantly to  improved economic management.    There
continues, therefore, to be a need for capacity building and leadership in
a number of essential areas.   IDA involvement would facilitate the
adoption of a systematic and strategic approach to capacity building,
relating technical assistance to the requirements of the reform program in
the short term and laying the foundation for more permanent improvements
in economic management over the medium term.  In addition, with peace
prospects becoming more favorable, the Government intends to design and
implement a reconstruction program involving major investments in
infrastructure rehabilitation and other measures to stimulate a rapid
recovery in production. In view of the difficulty of this task and the
need to ensure that investment resources are channelled to well-prepared
high priority projects, there is an urgent need to strengthen the
Government's  capacity  in public  investment programing  and project
preparation. The Bank's role is to address key areas where there is a
clear need for assistance to strengthen economic management and to provide
leadership and complementary support for the activities covered by other
agencies.   The proposed project would serve as a vehicle for the
definition of a coherent capacity building strategy, in close coordination
with other donors.
Proiect Obiectives
38.         The central objective of the project is to strengthen the
Government s capacity to formulate and implement sound economic policies
and investment projects. Over the medium term, this objective would be
pursued by the provision of training to strengthen economic, accounting
and project analysis skills of Angolan civil servants, and by assisting
the authorities in improving the economic data base and streamlining the
legal framework. in the short term, this objective would be pursued by
providing technical assistance to the economic management functions that
are critical to the design and implementation of a well balanced economic
reform program, including the liberalization of the trade, agricultural
and industrial sectors.
Prolect Description
39.         The detailed project description appears in section A of the
Technical Annex of this report.   The project includes the following
componentes (a) Human resource develonment, including targeted training
programs aiming at improving skills in: (i) economic management; (ii)
project analysis; (iii) accounting/financial management; and (iv)
procurementt  (b) Economic statistics,  including strengthening of the
central statistical agency and improvement in the collection, analysis and
dissemination of essential datal (c) Local assistance, to streamline the
legal and regulatory framework; (d) Public resource manaaement, including
sub-components focussing on: (i) public expenditure management; (ii)
public investment planning and programming; (lii) public enterprise
financial monitoring, and (iv) public accounting and financial management;
and (e) Liberalization goliciea, including studies and/or advisory
services to: (i) design, implement and monitor trade liberalization and
carry out a rural markets study; (ii) design and implement an income
policy (price and wage) reform package, and assess its economic and social
impact; (Lii) prepare an action program to restore the competitiveness of
the industrial sector and carry out a pilot privatization and liquidation
program; and (iv) analyze agricultural sector policy issues and
development potential, support state farms privatization, and carry out a
rural survey.   In addition, the project includes funding for project



- 12 -
administration and coordination as well as unallocated contLngency funds
to be used for, Later &11a, short-term advLsory services and studL@s, to
be ldentlfled and agreed upon durLng the course of project impl_mentatlon.
40.         The total cost of the project net of taxes is estLmated at US$
26.1 mlllon equlvalent, with forelgn costs of US5 23.0 million and local
costs of US$ 3.1 mllion. A breakdown of costs and the fLnancing plan are
shown in Schedule A. Training activities, project administration and the
unallocated component represent 44 percent (US$ 10 mllion) of IDA
contribution. The sise of the credit is justified by the declslon to
proceed with one umbrella tochnLcal assLitance operation rather than
*sveral smaller ones and by the need to "catch up' ln a country whlch has
beon a member of the Bank for only 18 months.   Procurement and
dlsburement arrangements and amounts are presented ln Schedule B. A
timetable of key project processing events is shown ln Schedule C.
&jLect IMglementati2n
41.         Project implementatlon and adminLstration are descrLbed ln
Section B of the Technlcal Annex of thls report. The overall project
implementatLon would be under the responaLbillty of the Ministry of
PlannLng, but responslbility to implement the various project components
would rest wlth the respective line ministries. A Project Coordlnation
Committee, to be headed by a Project Coordinator and assisted by a Project
Administrator would be responsible for managing the project.
Aaureements
42.         The Project Coordination Commlttee and the position of Project
Coordinator have been legally established during project preparation. A
Project Coordinator has also been appoLnted. During negotLations, IDA
receLved assurances from the Government on the followLngs (i) the
establiosment of the management structure to carry out the execution of
the project, includlng the responsibilities and operating procedures of
the Project Coordinatlng Committee and the Project Unit, and the terms of
reference for the Project Coordlnator and for the Project Administrator;
(iL) a first year action program for each project component and each
Ministry,  except  for the statLstics component  and the unallocated
component; (iii) the terms of reference of the long-term consultants, to
be flnanced under the project; (iv) a mld-term review and an annual
project review to assess implementatlon progress, ldentify constraints,
take corrective action and approve the action program of the following
year; (v) the project accounting and auditing arrangements; (vi)
procedures concerning project reporting and monitoring; and (vll) the
organization by the Government of an annual donor's meetLng on technLcal
assistance to ensure consistency between donor intervention and avoid
overlapping.
43.         conditLons of Effectiveness: (i) the legal establlshment of
the Project Unit and the position of Project Administrator I and (LL) the
selection and employment of the Project Administrator, with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
44.         Conditlon of Disbursement: Credit funds under the unallocated
category and the statistics component would be conditloned, respectively,
on the Association approving a list of activities to be financed under the
component with corresponding implementation schedule and budget, and on
the approval by the Government of the Natlonal Statistics Plan prepared ln
consultation with IDA.
BM-Lts
45.         improved economic management would have a major pay-off for
a country as well endowed as Angola, and where the economy is performing



- 13 -
so far below lt. potential. The assistance provided under the proposed
project would facilitate the preparation, implementation and supervision
of policy reform measures that are long overdue and which would lead to
growth of incomes.  The project would also help to ensure that the
investments contemplated under the reconstruction program, which would be
launched once peace takes hold, would be sound and contribute to more
efficient resource allocation. Over the long term, the capaelty building
components of the project would contribute to improving the qualifications
of civLl servants in the areas of economlc and financial management
Other benefits could include considerable savings resulting from improved
procurement procedures applied to Angola's US$ 3 bllion per year lmport
bill, and reduced risks of costly policy mistakes resulting from an
improved statistical data base.
46.         The proposed project carries substantial risks. First, there
are the risks to successful project execution inherent to a first project
in a country where civil war has been raging and where important political
developments are likely to take place over the coming years. Prospects
for a peaceful settlement of the civil war and for a lasting political
settlement are brighter today than ever before, and the potentially large
benefits of such a high-priority capacity building project warrant taking
this *political" risk.   Second, with respect to the training, legal
framework and economic statistics components of the project itself, there
are risks of overlapping with other donor activities and of slow
implementation, due to the administration's limited absorptive capacity.
These risks have been addressed bys (i) the special emphasis given to
medium and long-term human resources development and targeted training
under the proposed project; (i) clear assignment of responsibilities for
various components; and (iii) close coordination with other donors.
47.         I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Date: May 24, 1991



- 14 -
Page 1 of 1
ZCONOMSC MANAO!NNU  CApAITY DUILDIEG PR=JECT
W1ois1 Coat RatiMates aRd 1Finaning PIAn
(US million equivalent)
Protect Cost Estimates                     Forlian    Local          A
(a)  Ruman Resources Development            S.17      0.33        5.50
(b) Economic Statistics                     1.80      0.60        2.40
(c)  Legal Assistance                       2.62      0.17        2.79
(d)  Public Recource Management             3.59      0.19        3.78
(s)  Liberalization Policies                3.78      O.S9        4.37
(f)  Project Administration/coordination   2.09       0.71        2.80
(9)  Unallocated                            1.62      0.16        1.78
Base Cot (mid-1991)                   20.67      2.75        23.42
Contingencies 'l                       2.33      0.31        2.64
Iotal Project Costs 3/                                      RjLaQ .0  .Qi06
Financina Plan                           ZrAMign      Lgcal      Total
Government                                 ------      3.06        3.06
IDA                                        23.00                  23--0
Total                                      23.00       3.06       26.06
1/ Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of international
inflation.
2/ costs are not of taxes and duties.



- 1S -
Schedule a
Page 1 of 2
ECONOMIC MANGMENT CAPAITY BtUILDING PROJECT
!ISUNTM ANDZ DISDIURNfE
SUmi=  OF PROPOSER BOCUEME  ARRAGEMNTS
(US $ MILLION EQUIVALENT)
FIGURES IN BRACKETS INDICATE ANOUNTS FINANCED BY IDA
PROJECT ELEMENT                               PROCUREMNMEalEOD
Ica   W&E  gRf    1                    TOTAL CS 
1. go
1.1 BookandMlial                                          0.28                      0.28              t
(0.28)                   (0.28)
1.2 Office Efqulpmnt and Supplies                0.60     0.35                      0.95              4
(0.5)    0.20)                    (0.70)
13 Vehicles                                      0.50     0.23                      0.73              3
(0.45)   (0.20)                   (0.65)
2. CordiWtdes. TA and Twinin
2.1 Sudis                                                 6.84                      6.84             26
(6.11)                    (6.11)
2.2 Consultny Seorvicc                                   12.45                     12.45             48
(11.71)                   (11.71)
2.3 Training                                              1.45                      1.45              6
(1.45)                    (1.45)
3. 
3.1 Rental, Maintenanee, etc                                       2.61             2.61             10
(1.35)           (1.35)
4. Mlsamo
4.1 ReflnsniagofPPP                                                0.75             0.7S              3
(0.7S)           (0.75)
TOTAL                                              1.10    21.60     3.36            26.06            100
(0.93)  (19.95)   (2.10)          (23.00)



- 16 -
Pag 2 of 2
ANGOLA
192mOMC  AAGM3I CAPACITY RUIL21VO PAOJ3=
(UsS million)
Anwu of cdft          % of Egil Eienad
1.
a. Sbus                                         4.35            100% of foeig
b. Camuhwn Setvs                                  .00           100% of d relg
c. Tunimg                                        1.40           100s%of fte
I. Books and Maerls                                   0.25            100% of foeig
3.  5e auli.m Sm le. and Vhicle
S. Offqe ipenanSod Supples                       0.60           100%t of f
b. Veile                                         0.50           1o% of foeign
4. hcl_esal perating codsa                            0.90            100% of fois
S. Satics compmon                                     235             100% of foreign
6. Ohier Assiance                                     1.40            100% of foeign
7. EefiunancigofPfWF                                  0.75             Anua due
S. Umilemod t2
Total Cost                                        23.00
E:STINAT15D DISBITE MS
(USS Million)
offilk FY             SbrnoflBuEd!=                 SbngfCXuAmiive                      56 of toud
1992                    Dc 31,1991                    0.50               OS0.             2.2
luan30, 1992                  1.61               2.11             9.2
1993                    Dec 31, 1992                  3.25               5.36            23.3
luam 30,1993                  3.60               8.96            39.0
1994                    Dec 31, 1993                  3.96              12.92            56.2
Jun. 31,1994                  3.96              16.38            73.4
1995                    Dec 31, 1994                  2.78              19.66            85.5
lun 30,1995                   2.50              22.16            96.3
1996                    Dec 31, 1995                  0.60              22.76            98.9
lune 30,1996                  0.24              23.00           100.0



- 17 -
Schedule a
Page 1 of 1
ECONOmHC MAMAoeNT CAPACSY BtSLDfla PRAijzO
Simeatble of lNL  PE ogessing  ent
Time Taken to Prepares                          11 months
Prepared by:                                   Qov.rnment. with IDA
assistance
First IDA Missions                             February 1990
Appraisal Mission Departure:                    February 1991
Negotiationss                                  April 1991
Board Presntations                             June 1991
Planned Effectivenesss                         September 1991



- I$ -
Vage 1 of 1
STAUS OP MANM OMU OPERATIONS
IN ANGLA
(March 31, 1991)
The proposed credit would be the first
Bank group operation in Angola.



-  19 -                                        Schedule  E
Page 1 of 2
Anoa
2or  1521)                    SSWi i.e
p  qo {t-)                   J        kP
HUMANRESOURCES
54p9       53         5 25        1 50-3    57.6       60.8
hm   pa 1wown                   n"b~*ofap
VA.!                           mAest              ..         ..         ..          ....
Re.                                                          ..          ..        .....
ainua%             0.         3.4        29         3.1        2.1        1i8
P8hn  _         4.3        6.i 52                5.2        3.0        2.9
ueam         8 _t owa mdifi                                  3.9        3.8         3.2        2.8        19         3.1
i=20t h                            s             ..                13,505    674322    831,021    510,48
bilth me                 jw~pethas py.       49.2       47.7       47.0        46.7       30.0       25.5
6a39       6.39       6.44       6.59       3.87       3275
Cl(0-4)/wom(15.49)                      p
Usta                                  pQr lCo0w              ..         ..--
Rund
MatdoahM                                pert d   ap.         289        23           6        15.5        8I         8.0
POm *A%L pe tiv  MM$l    191.6  IN5        13.7       1069        52.7        45.2
IJmS        or                                   l           .        6.        213.6      1S.1        81.5       54.4
Ufvi~~~~atbbftwmW ~~3S.2                               39.2       45.3       51.0       65.2        67.4
fmeoW                                  367        40.8       47.2        52.7       67.6       69.9
Tadla  *fom                               dwafab4           7          2fS.78    4'0M9    193.7d7    243588    159.186
A= m                 Saflaborfew ~~~~.'                5.8         - 
_a                                                        491         O 9s8.8             37.8       X0i        307
powesaer 100d
Ub-m                                       mAr               ..         ..         ..... 
Pamk*ve:ovull                          odkbfocam            479         45.4       41.1       413        AS         9.
ne                                             8.5       36.5       31.5       30.4       22.6       23.s
EiucmUauatatWdnusietaba fares
*-g_all~~~al                                                                    - _f
8 ~   ~ ~        u                       P..                         .. _   
NATURAL UOURCU
Am                                     dt sqk             I,247      1,247      1,247     23.066     21,08"     16264
-            4    5~~ 7                                AS 9    2
tnd                            S -i               25.9        261        26.1       33                    3
P=   h1                        2 0       5jA 68I9            6.
^   Defwegatim  t)                        a                  0.2       .02         .0.2      .0.4        .0.i7      44
Aambmfowatw                   %~~~~~~       ~~.fPap.  .                31.0       36.        63.5       79.7
Rw                                                                                          2  " :. .. t85 o 242 478 28
Popuat     gr owthlnfamt norta                                                   frlayschl erllmt
w s                                                        i~~~~~~~~~~~s
*                                        no
S                              -                                          I,~~~~~~u
4                                                                                 Ss*7  mOsb 47    47          o
2 Am&  -~~~~~~I



- 20 -
Schedule E
Page 2 of 2
Angpb
-    ~     z3 qe     qef -- barn,
Total  diam s                                         s 
Uaaz.tobilzorn40SdhmaaabMs                I.V  I.                      -         *SW
oBPAMOVEn
AGNM sp lwM=9m                       USSM              *- pm                       330      tin24    Wo
P     to         m                                                        ..       ..
A    sepmi                                            - u                 -         -                  -
s"t                                  %dOE,GD
ibm. n is am.  A        la        210                        3478S
%dDp                            I6                              1 
110.6          463
S^eia- %d vt7 S1P941=106                                     1
t m     $'                     gmIad             1A        1        1.72     2 n       t7t
E^g                                 ,dGIW              ..a       -         ..        .        ..        -
Mmikvamansoubmn                      *d(GDP            .          ..  
_ad*_pohe                            %G,fGP            -                                       .
14ctfase.dv.       114.5    1905      2(.       1082      8.       X.S7g
Sf% M oDP          -         ...                   
a_48 
DIYUTMN INUUMANCAMrAL
P ~     bn$la                                        . ,      ..i   17.                   X 
EhsmU                                %uIGDF            -         -         -         -         ..
famh ~  ~ ~ %u"wmupG                                                         OL        N
%ofmduysmdmi.  -              57.7I    o.? 
Oi.R._T,rX S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'d  _ 'L."z
-       64
Ps:$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                    2 11    92 |21
Nb_b~mm4                         Zd                .........764                                  7M 
pmnhm.a           8.3      12.4      12.1       .2       7.9      830
_m _  ..    -. ... _..  ._  .  .U



Technical Annex to the  emorandum and Recomuendation
of the President for an
Zeonomic Maaement Capacity Building Project
Section A. DetaLled Project Demerintion
BnLaQomd
1.          The proposed project would focus on increasing capacity ln a
number of areas or functions identified as critical for improved economic
management. The Bank s objective is to provide a framework and a sense of
direction and priorities to the overall technical assistance program ln
Angola. Eeon idc distortions are severe, and the Government's available
mean, in terms of data, institutions and qualifLed manpower, to deslgn
and implemaent an appropriate action program to correct these distortLons,
are grossly inadequate. In view of the urgent need to Tprove basic
economic management, the project would not exclusively focus on supporting
broader capacity building activities which are essential for improved
economle management in Angola over the medium-term. Due to the sever
human resources constraints, the initiation of some longer-term capacity-
building efforts (e.g., training in certain generic skills areas such as
economic, accounting and project analysis skills) which is the central
objective of the project, would be complemented with the provisLon of
technical assistance for immediate, adjustment-related activities.
2.          A free-standing capacity building operation needs to be
carefully designed. As pointed out in the recent 030 report 1/, this
type of operation has had limited and often poor results in other parts of
Africa. Many technical assistance (TA) operations suffered substantial
delays ln implementation and what they eventually achieved fell far short
of the objectives. Experience in other countries has shown that to be
successful, the design of such TA projects must take Into account the
degree of Government commitment and the limited absorptive capacity, as
well as the priorities of the national development policy.  This is
particularly important in an institutlonally weak country such as Angola.
An additional constraint in this case is ,he relatively small pool of
potential outside experts, given the constraints imposed by language and
relatively unattractive living conditions.
3.          The decisions as to what elements to include in the project
were the outcome of continuous discussions with Angolan authorities over
the past year.   The considerations underlying the final choice of
components includes initial development of institutional development
strategy and basic capacity-building (e.g., statistics, training in
economic skills, public investment planning and programming, and legal
framework), and activities in support of the adjustment program (e.g.,
liberalization policies and public expenditure managment) which have been
identified and analyzed through economic work. Since a number of inter-
related, complementary reforms have to be inltiated at an early stage, the
project attempts to strLke a balance between addressing the key areas but
tailoring the proposed assistance to the limited absorptive capacity.
4.          To facilitate implementation, measures discused with the
Government includes (i) appointment of a Project Coordlnator and a Project
Administrator (paras. 19 and 20)t (ii) clearer delineation oZ
responsbilities of ministries and agencies involved in order to avoid
confusion and conflicti and (iii) improved coordination of the managmnt
of all technical assistance related to economic functions to permit a
better overview of TA needs and availability.  In addition, Dank staff
convinced the Government to make the overall guidance of the economic
reform program the responsibility of a single coordinating body, which
should facilitate linkages with the relevant TA cotponents. The recent
creation of an intermLnisterial committee to manage the reform program is
a positive first step  ln this direction.   The Government's active
It  OND, Pree-Standlng Technical Assistance for Institutional
Development in Sub-8aharan Africa (Report No. 8573), April 19, 1990.



- 22 -
involvement In identifying its technical assistance needs has reduced the
danger that TA would not be sufficiently internalized, and thus be less
effective.  The uncertainty surrounding Angola's future, the pace and
impact of the internal political developments and economic reforms,
coupled with the weak lnstltutional capacity, call for flexibility ln the
proposed capaclty bulldlng project. A part of the total project cost will
be unallocated, to be committed durlng project Lmplementation when
unexpected needs arise. These needs would be discussed during the annual
project reviews. Adequate funds have been allocated to finance costs
related to project administratLon and implementation.
Proiect Comnonents
5.          This section briefly outlines the background,  ratlonale,
objectives, and content of each of the components included tn the project.
Ha      - Resource Deveo2Unt
6.          A widespread lack of economic, project analysis and financial
management skills at different levels of Government is a major obstacle to
effective economic management and is hinderlng the absorptlon of tochnical
assistance. Training needs have been identlfied for three target groupst
(i) the small number of trained economists operating at "DLrector" level
in the core economic agencies who need to be familiarized with economic
policy and management issues and strategies in a market-oriented
environment and in the light of experLencei of other countries and
international organlzations; (ii) recent graduates recruited for junior
positions in the core agencLes who require additional training in macro-
economic analysis and in professional orientatlon, the latter in three
basic professional trackas development planning, fiscal/financLal
management, and central banking; (LiL) technical level staff in the core
agencies responsible for the execution of basic economic management tasks
that require training ln accountLng skllls and general administration.
Project preparation and evaluatLon is also a critlcal weakness ln the
process of investment plannLng and programming, requiring a substantial
training effort in the sectoral planning units of Ministries, in public
enterprLses, and ln provincial planning units.   Training ln project
analysis skills will be designed to improve the processing of Lnvestment
projects through the various stages of the project cycle, as well as the
quality and effLcLency of project generation and formulation in key
sectors. Buildlng capacity in thls area is critical to ensure that the
Government is Ln a posLtion to formulate a sound reconstructlon program at
a tlme when war-related constraints are fading.
7.          This component aims at Licreasing the technical capacity of
core economic agencies to formulate and manage sound economlc policies,
projects and enterprlses. It seeks to improve economic management skills
bys (i) offerlng coordinated targeted training to selected segments of
Government staff in macroeconomic and project analysls skills; (ii) making
a limlted but complementary contribution to improving job classification
and training needs assessment ln the economic core agencies; and (lii)
providing the means for substantial upgrading of trainLng for technical-
level staff requiring skills ln accountlng, fLnancLal management and
general administrative skills. The proposed tralning and institutlonal
assiLtance takes into account and bullds on related ongoing or past
educational, traLning and institutional development efforts. The initial
mphasls is on remedial traLning and only marglnally on job-specifLc
sklle. Gradually, as the improved educational system turns out better
trained graduates, and as personnel management in the publJc sector
improves, training wlll shift to greater emphasLs on job-related skllls.
Courses will be carefully deslgned to meet Government requirements and
will be offered both ln-country and abroad.  The proposed serLes of
courses and seminars will be coordinated by a TraLnLng Coordinating
Committee, assisted by a Resident Consultant who will support, inter aL.a,
the  continuous evaluation  and revision of traLning efforts.   The
Committee, which is under the dlrectlon of the MinLstry of Planning,



- 23 -
brings together representatives from relevant training centers and the
Faculty of Sconamics of Agostinho Neto University.   A total of 234
consultant/months will be required to organiz and deliver the training
program.
Etat1atlua.
S.          Lack of adeqate statistical lnformation in a major obstaole
to the design, implementation and monitoring of the economLc adjustment
program in Angola. Absence of a reasonable information base has limited
the Government's capacity to diagnose existLng distortlons Ln the economy
or to foreaee the likely path of policy outcome. Uxisting statistical
activities are unsophisticated, fragmented, and lack a clear sense of
direction. Therefore, Bank assistance in this field will be geared towards
(1) building a self-sustaining national capacity to collect, analyze, and
disseminate timely informationl (2) establishing a strong link between
statistical activities and the policy prioritiess and (3) coordinating
various sectoral statistics activities into an integrated national
framework.
9.          The Government  recognises  the  importance  of having  an
integrated strategy for the development of the national statistical system
before the implementation of this component. It also understands that it
must gradually finance a significant portioa of the operational expenses
in carrying out regular data collection. Such concerns are to be addresemd
in detail in the National Statistics Plano to be drafted and ratified by
the Government this year, in consultation with 1DA and other donors active
in the sector.
10.         Based on the Government's commitment to build an effective
national statistical capacity, Bank assistance will first concentrate on
several key areas where statistical information is particularly needed for
formulation and implementation of the adjustment policies in the next few
years. It will subsequently expand into other areas relevant to the
Government's longer-term development objectives. Activities are planned in
the   following   areass   1)   prices;   2)   external   trade;   3)
industry/enterprises; 4) diseminationo 5) household; 6) services sector;
7) social trends; 8) agriculture; 9) national accountas and 10) balance of
payments. The component will be implemented by the National Institute of
statistics, in collaboration with the Statistics Working Group establishad
under the project.
Leoal Assistance
11.         Angola has enacted a large volume of legislation in support of
its macroeconomic adjustment reform program (SEV). However, most of the
280 laws, presidential decrees and other regulations approved during the
8EF period were not clearly drafted or implemented. In fact, the legal
framework ha failed to provide a sound environment to the stabilisation
and reform process. Moreover, the Government'e attempts to strengthen the
rule of law are seriously hampered by the sporadic dissemination of the
legal framework and the poor quality of the legal services responsible for
drafting and implementing the new legislation. Therefore, there is a need
to: (i) develop a sound economic, legal and regulatory framework,
including the design and implementation of an updated procurement code, as
an essential element of the macroeconomic adjustment reform program; (Li)
strengthen the institutional framework and technical staff responsible for
the draftlng and implsmentation of the new legal and regulatory framework;
and (iii) design procedures and mechani"ms to widely disseminate the new
legislation and facilitate the implementation of economlc and financial
policy reformes.
12.         The project would include a Legal Assistance Component to
support: (a) the development of the eowncmlc, legal and regulatory
framework, including the revision and streamlLiing of existing economlc,
financial, commercial and admLaintrative logislatlon, through the



- 24 -
provisLon of ghort and long-term foreign and local consultants *servies
to compllo, revLew, update, draft and publish new legislation, standard
bLdding documents, manuals and model contracts for the procurement of
goods and servicess (b) the strengthoning of the capabliLties of the legal
staff to ensure that newly drafted legislation li internally consiLtent
with the economlc framework, includLngs (L) design and lmplementation of
a practical trainLng program for Government lawyers, through the provision
of short-term consultants' servLces, acquisLtion of equlpment and teaching
materLal. to organLie and carry out legal workshops and saemnars ln
Luanda, travel costs and per diem for Government lawyers partLcipating in
short-term practlcal internships and attending professional seminars and
conferences abroad; (ii) improving the quality of graduate legal training
provided by the School of Law through the provision of short-term
consultants* services to review the new academic syllabus and supporting
"twinlnig arrangement" with selected foreign academic institutLons; and
(c) the dissemination of the now legal and regulatory framework includings
(i) establishment and maintenance of a legal data-base, through the
provision of short-term consultants, services to assae& existing systeam
(i.e., Sumula legislativa, fichelro) and deslgn of an appropriate
computerised network which would facLiltate access to updated leglslatlon
and profeseLonal exchanges among Government legal services; and (Li)
strengthening of legal libraries at the key econamLc and financlal
agencies and the School of Law through the acquisition of main reference
legal materlals and technical journals; and (d) the strengthening of
component coordination activities to be carried out by the legal working
group, to be appoLnted by the MinLiter of Plan, and whose composltlon and
TORs have been agreed upon. The Legal WorkLag Group will have overall
responsibility for the Implementation of the legal assistance component.
Public Resource Manaaement
13.        In additLon to the special problems posed by the dependence on
oil revenue and the volatility of the oil price, fiscal management suffere
from technical and Institutional weaknesses in the planning, budgeting,
monitorlng and control of Government expenditure. Problems include: a
lack of coordination in the preparation of the budget, the plan and the
foreign exchange budget; inadequate procedures governLig the process of
budgeting and control of expenditure; and a severe shortage of financial
anagement skills at all levels of GovernAent as well as ln state
enterprses. To overcome these difficulties, technical assistance is
being provided from various sources, notably UMDP/IMF which ie providing
advLsory services in budgeting, treasury operations, banking, financial
statistics, acounting, and taxatlon.  Recent improvmnsa  in fiscal
management include the establishment of a treasury department, to be
followed shortly by that of an accounting department as well as by a
separate audit body within the Government.   The objectlve of thls
component is to further strengthen public resources management by
providing four long-term advisors and 87 staff/months of short-term
support in the followLng areass (i) public resource allocation, focussing
on issues relatod to the composition of public expenditure, and Lncluding
the allocation between wages, goods and services, and transfers and
subsidies, as well as between sectors, and between recurrent and
investment expenditure; (ii) strengthening public investment planning and
program.ing to asssLat the Government in the preparatlon of a sound and
detailed 3-year rolling investment program; (11) improving budgeting and
monitoring of financLal flows between the Government and the state
enterprLses, includLag the setting and monitoring of borrowing lLmits for
the enterprLieip and (iv) the deslgn and implementation of on-the-job
traLning in financial management, as well as a series of short-term
studies on program budgeting, cash management, debt reglstry, audlt, and
the aessment of training needs.   The advlsory servLces on publlc
investment are to be provided to the department responsible for the public
investenot program ln the Ministry of Planning (GNIC).   All other
assistance In this component is to the MLnistry of Finance. PartLcular
care has been taken to coordinate wlth other technical assistance in this
area to avoLd duplication.



- 25 -
Libralisation PoLices
14.         Trade Pollcy.  The removal of Lnternal and external trade
restrictions should accompany the opening up of the Angolan economy in
order to lncrease the role of competitlve markets. In particular, lt
woulds (L) provide incentlves to export re of non-tradLtional goods  (ii)
increase the openness of the economy to Lnternational compotitlon; (lit)
Lacrease the role of competltion in the domestic markets and (lv) improve
the avaLlabliLty of inputs to key sectors of the economy, notably
agriculture. The Government has already lnltLated the process of trade
liberalization but requires assistance for monitorLng the process and
LdentLfyLng bottlenecks and further actlons.  The project will fund a
study whlch will emphasize these aspects and deepen the liberalLsation
process, as well as a speclfic study on rural markets and agrliultural
trade.
1S.         Incomes  Poli_ies.       conomis  policies  pursued  since
independence have resulted In a wlde diff rentlal between controlled
officLal priees and prlees on the parallel market. Workers whose pay has
been linked to official prlces have been protected from lnflation through
a system of payment-ln-kind, whlch suffers from high transaction costs and
a total lack of transparency. Price liberalizatLon and reform of the
current system of wage remuneration (by abollshing the current system of
"cart8es" for formal seetor workers whleh amounts to privlleged access to
foreign exchange at below market prices), are an essential part of the
economlc adjustment program, and need to be closely coordinated.  The
Government has announced lts intention to decontrol prices, except for
prLces of essential goods and those goods subject to monopolies. Surveys
of the clvil service are beLng undertaken to provide the data necessary
for a detailed dLagnosiL of the present remuneratlon system as a basls for
the formulation of wage reform measures. The objective of the incaomes
policy component is to strengthen the Government s capacity to deslgn and
iplement a mutually coherent wage pollcy and prlce liberalizatlon, and to
monitor the lmpact of these policies on the fLscal balance, inflation, and
the welfare of the most vulnerable groups. The project will provide a
long-term advLsor (36 staff/months) and short-term support (12
staff/months) to the MinLstry of Finance for the design of a c mprehensive
prlce  and  wage  reform  package,  and  the  formulation  of  detailed
implementatlon plans.   The advliors will work closely with other
Government agencies, in partlcular wlth the linistry of Planning, wlth the
MlnLstry of Commerce on price liberalLzation, and wlth the MinLstry of
Labor on wage pollcy.
16.         induiatkLaLB Beat. Public enterprises ln Angola account for
almost all signlfieant actlvity in the formal economy, apart from the oil
sector.  They operate wlthln a heavlly bureaucratic central planning
mechanLsm and are subject to frequent dlrect interventLon by Ministries.
Under these circumstances, and ln particular when prLce signals are so
dLstorted, economic efficLency is difficult to achLeve.   One of the
princlpal aLms of the Government's economLc reform program is the
establishment of an efficLent, market-orlented enterprlse sector. As a
flrst step in the long-term process of restructurlng public enterprlies,
better knowledge is needed of thelr fLnancial and economic performance, as
well as of the environment and sectors ln which they operate. Also, ther
is   a  need  to  develop  consistent   strategies  for  enterprise
restructuring/prlvatlzation.  This component, for a total of about 70
man/months of asLetance (both local and foreign), would Lnclude an
industrLal sector study to provide a profile of the sector, focussLng in
partLcular on enterprise restructuring ln a new macro-economlc context and
doing the followLngs (a) establish a comprehenslve data base; (b) examine
the policy, legal and regulatory framework; (c) propose an actlon plan of
reforms to improve Industrial sector performance in a market regime; and
(d)  carry  out  a pilot program  of privatlzatlon,  liquidation  and
restructuring of public enterprises.  Advlsory servlces wlll also be
requLred for GARB (the unlt responslble for public enterprLse



- 26 -
restructuring) in the Ministry of Planning to ensure adequate guidance of
the process and a consistent approach across various sectors.
17.         Aoricultural Sector.   Thia component would lnclude more
general asaistance for the restructuring of the agricultural sector.
Agricultural production of both export and food crops has declined sharply
and continuously since independence.   In view of the close linkages
between macroeconomic distortions (and the corresponding adjustment and
reform measures) and the incentive framework for agricultural producers,
techalcal assistance would be provided to the Ministry of Agriculture for
the analysis of sector-policy issues (e.g., pricing) and the linkages
between these and macro-policies. In addition, the project would provide
the Ministry of Agriculture withs (i) short-term expertise to increase
capacities for reviewing and streamlining land tenure legislation,
including if need be, drafting of new laws and regulations, and for
designing, implementing and monitoring detailed divesture plans for state
farms, ln coordination with the GARE; (ii) means to undertake a rapid
rural survey to accelerate data collection and methodology development on
smallholder farming production systems and rural household income and
consumption patterns; the rapid rural survey would be carried out in
coordination with the National Statistics Institute (INE) and would serve
to strengthen the institutional links between the statistics division of
the Ministry of Agriculture and INE; (iii) short-term consultancies to
review forest and wildlife management policy issues; (iv) short-term
consultancies to carry out additional subsector and/or pro-investment
studies (e.g., cotton, green belts), to be agreed upon at a later otagel
and (v) training and pilot operations to improve the capabilities of
research and extension services.
section B. Proiect Administration and Imolementation
18.         Proiect  Implementation.   Responsibility for implementing
project activities would rest with the Ministries under which they falls
the Planning Ministry for public investment planning and programming, the
Finance Ministry for public expenditures, etc. Within each Ministry,
supervision of each project implementation would be the responsibility of
a "task manager" under the supervision of a Vice-Minister or the Minister.
To facilitate implementation and monitoring and create good administrative
practices, annual work programs would be established by each Ministry and
reviewed by the Ministry of Planning and IDA before the end of the
preceding year. Agreement has been reached during project preparation on
the principle of annual review of the proposed work program by IDA during
project implementation and on the schedule of critical steps for the start
of the work of the consultants. Agreement was reached at negotiationes
(i) on the first year action program of each Ministry and/or components
(ii) on an annual project review to assess implementation progress,
identify constraints, take corrective action and approve the following
year action program, and on a mid-term review to take place in 19941 and
(iii) on the terms of reference of the long-term consultants to be
financed under the project.
19.         Proimot Coordination.  A Project Coordination Committee has
been created and comprises the Ministries and agencies responsible for
project implementation. The Planning Minister appointed a staff member at
the Director level ("the Project Coordinator") to coordinate the project
activities on a day to day basis. The committee would meet once a year to
approve individual agencies' work programs and at least once every three
months to review their implementation, coordinate project actions and take
appropriate   corroctive   measures.      The   membership,   functions,
responsibilities and operating procedures of the Coordination Committee
and the terms of reference of the Project Coordinator have been agreed
upon during negotiations. The Project Coordination Committee and the
position of Project Coordinator have been legally established and the
Project Coordinator has been appointed.



- 27 -
20.         Pfolect Administration.  A small Project Unit, headed by a
Project Administrator, would be established in the Mnistry of Planning to
provide overall administrative support for project activLties.   The
Project Administrator would be assisted by an administrative assistant, an
accountant, a secretary/typist, a driver and a messenger. The unit's main
responsibility would be to handle the administrative aspects ofs (/)
recruitment and employment of resident experts and short-term consultantsl
(ii) procurement of goods and services above S 10,000 (procurement for up
to this amount would be handled by the ministry concerned); and (iii)
preparation and presentation of withdrawal applications from the credit
component. The Project Unit would also be responsible for follow up of
the yearly work plans, the preparation of the project financial accounts
and the contracting of the project audits.  The Project Administrator
would be the Secretary of the Project Coordination Committee, and would
liaise with IDA concerning project administration.   The structure,
functions, responsibilities and operating procedures of the Project Unit
and the Terms of Reference of the Project Administrator have been agreed
upon at negotiations. Th legal etabliohment of the Proiect Unit and the
emolovment  of  the  Prolect  Administrator,  With  gualificLatione  AM
experience satisfactory to the Association. would b co-nditionsfi credit
effectiveness.
21.         Special Account.    Government would establish a  foreign
exchange special account in a commercial bank to help expedite
disbursements with terms and conditions of operations acceptable to IDA.
Upon credit effectiveness and receipt of withdrawals application, the
Association would make an advance deposit of $500,000 corresponding to
three to four months of expenditures.   The special account would be
replenished upon receipt and approval of satisfactory documented evidence
of expenditures to be provided by the Project Administrator. Should any
disbursements be made from the special account which are not acceptable to
IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount in the special
account.
Procurement
22.         The  credit  addresses  the  strengthening  of  Government's
procurement capabilities by providing training on World Bank procurement
procedures and practices through the Human Resource Development component,
and by providing technical assistance to review and streamline
administrative and institutional frameworks through the Legal Assistance
component. Qgodgs The IDA-f inanced procurement of goods include: (i)
books and materials valued at 0.28 million required for the legal library.
These include specific Portuguese language books or legal reviews, cases,
and their documentation, generally available only through specialized
publishers and would be procured by prudent shopping; and (ii) office
equipment and supplies valued at US$ 0.35 million and vehicles valued at
Us$ 0.23 million for the requirements of the entire project implementation
period of four years and for which procurement would be done in a phased
manner.   These are small value contracts spaced over time. Since the
requirement of after sales services is of prime importance for office
equipment, LCB would be resorted to. LCB procedures would include local
ownership, clearly stated evaluation criteria, awards to the lowest
evaluation bidder and foreign bidders would not be prevented from
participating. Consultants- Technical AsiLstance and Trainin : Consultant
services and technical assistance (US$ 20.74 million) for technical and
managerial assistance will be approved in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines. Terms of reference for these have been agreed upon during
negotiations.    A  list  of consultancy contracts with breakdown of
consultancy costs and categories is attached in Annex A. The training
component (US$ 1.45 million) will address the skill development of local
officials and the personnel for training would be selected with the
concurrence of IDA.   incrementAl oosertiszi couta: (USS 2.61 million)
include rentals and maintenance of vehicles and buildings. This will be
done according to the procedures of the GOA and rDA consultants would be
reimbursed against actuals.



- 28 -
23.          *Qgk  Og=n    Disbursments from the ex1r,dit would be mado on
the basis of 100 prcent of foreign expenditure& . z-s Va( services of
consultants, train ig and studiess (b) vehicles, oe pment and furniturst
and (c) incremental operating costs (see 8cheduls- El. All disbursements
would be fully documented except for individual expenditures and contracts
below US$ 10,000 equivalent, for which a certified statement of
expendltures (80B8) will be used. The documentation would be retained by
the Project Unit and will be made avallable for scrutiny to Bank
supervision missions. While project implementation is scheduled for three
years, a seven-year disbursement period is retained in accordance wlth the
regional disbursement profile for similar projects.
24.         Aecounts and Audits. The Government of Angola would establish
a consolidated project account as well as for the sub-components that it
will lmplement.  The Project Administrator would maintain records and
accounts for all project activities. Accounts would be kept in accordance
with accepted accounting princLples and would record all project
expenditures, commitments, reimbursements and status of project funds.
The accounts and statements of expenditures would be audited each year by
external auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the close of the financial year.  This would include a
separate paragraph of the auditor's opinion concerning the amounts
withdrawn on the basis of statement of expenditures.   Agreement on
accounting and auditing arrangements have been reached at negotiations.
25.         Reoorting and Monitorine. Reports on project implementation,
summarizing progress achieved, difficulties encountered, and changes or
adjustments to be made, would be submitted quarterly by each Ministry
concerned to the Project Coordinating Committee.   The Coordinating
Committee would meet at least every three months to review progress, take
appropriate actions, and assign responsibility for follow-up. The agenda
and minutes of Committee meetings would be prepared by the Project
Administrator, and transmitted to IDA to facilitate project supervision.
Agreement on procedures concerning project reporting and monitoring have
been agreed upon at negotiation.
26.         Suierviuion Plan. The supervision of the proposed project is
expected to be staff-intensive, given the lack of familiarity of the
Angolan officials with Bank procedures.  Supervision of the proposed
project is expected to absorb 40 sw in FY92 and 25 sw from FY93 to FY95.
Each component would be supervised separately, except for the yearly
project review, during which the annual work program and financial plan
for the following year would be agreed upon. Given the large degree of
uncertainty characterizing Angola, reallocations among project components
might be necessary over the project life. It is therefore necessary to
build an element of flexibility in the project implementation and
supervLison. The annual project reviews provide the framework for such
fine tuning in project design.   Project progress reports would be
submitted to IDA twice a year (March and September). The March report
would review the progress achieved for each component in the previous
year, while the September report would propose the work program of the
next fiscal year to be discussed during the annual project review. The
Project Unit, under the leadership of the Project Administrator, would be
responsible for providing the information required by the Bank. While
routine meetings would be chaired by the Project Coordinator or members of
the Coordinating Committee, supervision wrap-up meetings would be chalred
by the Minister of Plan, or his designated representative.  Once the
Coordinating Committee is in place, the Project Unit would organize, once
a  year,  a  donor's  meeting  to  ensure  consistency  between  donor
interventLons in the technical assistance area and avold overlapping. The
organization of such annual meetings has been agreed upon at negotiations.



ANNEX A
ECOtNOMIC TMA  MENT CAPACITY WUIL111t4 PROJECT
------------  --------  
SMWMY DESCRIPTION OF CONSULTANCY REQUIREMNTS
(in USS gm)
DURATION IN E$TIMAT1-O ESTCIMTATED IRM O
COMPOWNNT/ACTIVITY              MANJAONT    TARTD    COSTS   INIVIUAL                    REMARKS
1. Humn Resource
1.1 Macrooegnomnic Skills
ITS.. Long Term Ass i stnce            48    319.2          a2 thsntbe  determined at
1  .2, Sho9rt Term Ais stn             4    9/91-Vs6        759               this             services
1:  Project Anas%51  SkWlls                                                                   ma latd t  th? human rporge
1.22  ShLont Term A:s?nne              57   8/9 -/          t2                component 5l I    preyC  by
1.2.  Short Term As istance           S1 8/9Z-3J96          24 b9
1:1 h    otr*m"^;F9                   16   399/6           240
1.4. Procur emnt Skis                  O
1. 4. 1Short Term Assistance       .    9     9191          ISO
i.. Advisory Serv;cs                   34     12/91         516
2. Economic Statistics
2.          rmt Asssta nce             42     992           680
hore    ssistance                41   8/91-9/9C       620
3. Legol Assistance
3.1. Long Term Assistance             18      1/92         1629        S
4. Publie Resource Manageont
4.1. Public Entepris e                 36     9/91          54O        F      The four external adviseo
4.2  Public  xpend;tur                 386   12/91          540        p       ould b contracted throygh
4.  PuFic ie  ntment                  g8   3892             648        F      ft irn in one contract it
4.4. FinnIa  Mangmnt                   36    6/92           540        F      possi&le
4.5. Short Trm As stance               12   9/9 4/94        180        I
S. LiberalIzation Policies
5.1. Income Policy
S.1 1. Resident Advisor                8s     8/92          $40
51. 2. Short Term Assistance           12  6/91-3/94        too
.2  Industrial Sector
S.2.   Short-Term Assistanco           is   6/91-12/9       402        S
5.8. Agricultural Sector
6. 1. Resident Adviosr                 36     6/92          540        F
5.3.2. Short-Term Assistance           67     9/92          TM        F/I
S. Project Administration
B. 1  ong Term Assi,tanc,               0     0/919 
0.2. ahort Term Assitelne             106     9/91          6  



Pt)r.R.  tRI NANGOLA
CAMCONO                  TNZANIA
ONOOLA)           ZAIRE                                     0   Selected Towns
0             1LAMALAWI                                  0   Province Capitals
ANGOLA                                             0   Natlonal Capital
Main Roads
|ZAMBIA       ),----MaRod
/                       -t--e-  Railroads
+ Airports
=O TS W A A              =P                  o rts
12'                           180                         =   Province Boundaries
P.R. OF                              International Boundaries
TECONGO
MILES 0         100        200        300
MBANZA                   ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 0  100    200    300    400    500
CONGO 0
ZAIRE                   o                             20                             24I
Tacnb ao  -
o               u/GE
O  ^<   LA/E,      }     ZAIRE
UIGE   ?J
4,    /                                        LUCAPA 10
CAXITO    -UCANZA
LUANDA                         MAV. JR C)7E
L JANOVA            R'DALAAN0'                      oo
MALANJE                            -
0+                     X                    . >S ... LSAURIMO
~~~~~
Poro Amboim  G.b.a                                   3 h '-0 L                    _ '_
NGUNZA 4+                                                   .   /_
12'                                                                                             12
BENGUELA          HUAMBU                                                                   2
.   .    -U-.TO
0
Kuvango
MENONGUE
NAMIBE -'LUBANGO                                                          0    ZAMBIA
CuSJIgvoe
_18'b                                                                                           16-
12*                  l       ldhe'                                                     2
I                                                                              \               _



