Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19460
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ANGOLA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2274-ANG)
(June 28, 1999)
Macroeconomics 1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Readjusted Kwanza (KZR)
US$1 = 60 New Kwanza (at time of appraisal, March, 199 1)
New Kwanzas were converted to Readjusted Kwanzas in July 1995
US$1  696,500 Readjusted Kwanza (at time of ICR, April 1999)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Calendar year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPI                Consumer Price Index
DNIC               Directorate of Investment of the Ministry of Planning
EMCB               Economic Management Capacity Building Project
GARE               Gabinete de Redimensionamento Empresarial
GURU               Government of National Unity and Reconciliation
GIS                Global Information Systems
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INE                National Statistics Institute
INFORSEFE          Training Institute for the computer data center in the Ministry of
Finance
INEJ               National Institute for Legal Studies
MGM                Ministry of Geology and Mines
MoF                Ministry of Finance
MoP                Ministry of Planning
MPLA               Movimento Popular de Libertacao de Angola
MTR                Mid Term Review
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PIP                Public Investment Program
TOR                Terms of Reference
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
UNITA              Uniao National para a Independencia Total de Angola
Vice President:                                          Callisto Madavo
Country Director:                                        Barbara Kafka
Technical Manager:                                       Sudhir Shetty (Acting)
Task Manager:                                            Joao do Carmo Oliveira



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ANGOLA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2274 - ANG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background ...........................................................i
Project Objectives ..........................................................                   i
Project Implementation, Outcomes and Sustainability ................................           ii
Key Lessons Learnt ..........................................................                 iii
PART 1:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background ..........................................................                          I
Project Objectives ..........................................................                  3
Project Implementation ..........................................................              4
Project Outcomes ..........................................................                    8
Sustainability of Outputs and Outcomes ......................................                  9
Bank Performance ..........................................................                    9
Borrower Performance .........................................................                10
Key Lessons Learnt .........................................................                  11
Boxes
Key events in Angola 1991-1998 ........................................................        2
Key dates in project implementation ...................................................        2
PART II:    STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:         Summary of Assessments
Table 2:         Related Bank Credits and Loans
Table 3:         Project Timetable
Table 4:         Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
Table 5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:         Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 7:         Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:        Project Costs
Table 8B:        Project Financing
Table 9:         Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10         Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:                 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:                 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:                 Bank Resources Missions
APPENDICES:
A. ICR MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
B. BORROWER OPERATION PLANS
C. OUTPUTS MATRIX
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
WoTld Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ANGOLA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2274 - ANG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic
Management Capacity Building Project in Angola, for which Credit 2274-ANG in the
amount of SDR 17.1 million was approved in July 1991, and made effective in December
1991.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998, eighteen months after the original
closing date. Final disbursement took place on May 4, 1999, at which time a balance of
SDR 695,620 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Jocelyn Mason (Consultant) with the assistance of
Maria-Teresa Benito-Spinetto (Research Analyst) under the guidance of Joao do Carmo
Oliveira (Senior Economist) of the Africa Region and reviewed by Barbara Kafka,
Country Director, and Sudhir Shetty, acting Technical Manager.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in
November 1998, and continued during the completion mission, April 1999. It is based on
material in the project file and on intensive interviews with project coordinators and
beneficiaries. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by inviting the Bank
mission to a project evaluation seminar and by producing the borrower operation plans
(Appendix B). The Angolan authorities have reviewed the report and agreed to its
conclusions.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ANGOLA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit No. 22740 - ANG)
A. EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    The Economic Management and Capacity Building (EMCB) Project was the first
operation supported by the World Bank Group in Angola. It followed in the wake of a
peace process that began in 1991 after thirty years of war. War began with the struggle
for independence which lasted from 1961 until the ouster of Portuguese colonial power,
in 1975, and was immediately followed by a struggle for power between the Government
party, the Movimento Popular de Libertacao de Angola (MPLA), and the rebel Uniao
Nacional para a Independencia Total de Angola (UNITA). Angola's economic-
perfonnance in the non-oil sectors declined sharply after independence, even as oil
production increased almost fourfold since the early 1970s. Government export revenues
became highly dependent on the oil sector, but were absorbed by debt, allocative
inefficiencies, and war. Social indicators, already extremely low, worsened with the
massive migrations of people to the cities, consequently aggravating of unemployment
and poverty. Existing economic institutions, particularly in rural areas, were destroyed.
The 1991 cease-fire and peace accord represented a moment of great hope for Angola and
its development partners, who began preparing support programs for the transition from
war to peace and towards a market economy. However, Angola lacked capacity to design
and manage reforms, and the Bank developed the EMCB quickly to help the country
address this constraint. The momentum for reform was short-lived however, because of
the renewal of hostilities after the 1992 elections and, despite a further period of peace
between 1994 and 1998, was never fully regained. At various points throughout the
period of project implementation the Government started new initiatives of reform, but
unfortunately these initiatives were never put into practice in a consistent and sustainable
manner. EMCB was implemented during a period of great political volatility, and
coexisted with ups and downs in the Government's policies, which inevitably affected
critical decisions during project implementation, at mid-term review, and on the
extension of the closing date.
Project Objectives
2.    With this project the Government sought to strengthen its capacity to formulate
and implement sound economic policies and investment projects. The project was
designed as an "umbrella" technical assistance project to allow Angola to "catch up",
given that it had been a member of the Bank for only 18 months. The project included
five components at appraisal: a) Human Resources Development, to provide training in
economic management, project analysis, accounting and financial management, and
procurement; b) Economic Statistics, to strengthen the National Institute of Statistics
(INE) and to improve data collection, analysis and dissemination; c) Legal Assistance to



- ji -
streamline the legal and, regulatory framework; d).Public Resources Management to
improve public expenditure management, public investment planning and programming,
public enterprise financial monitoring, and public accounting and financial monitoring;
and d) Liberalization Policies, to design, implement and monitor trade liberalization and
carry out a rural markets study; design and implement an incomes policy (price and
wage) reform package, prepare an action program to restore competitiveness of the
industrial sector and carry out a pilot privatization and liquidation program, and analyze
agricultural sector policy issues and development potential, support state farm
privatization, and carry out a rural survey. A sixth component, Institutional Support, was
added during the Mid-Term Review to provide training and technical assistance
principally to the Ministry of Finance (MoF), Ministry of Planning (MoP), and the
Ministry of Geology and Mines (MGM).
Project Implementation, Outcomes and Sustainability
3.    The project disbursed 96 percent of credit funds, including 27 percent during an
18 month extension of the closing date. Disbursements were delayed during the first two
years of the project, due to early difficulties in implementation. Because this was a wide-
ranging technical assistance project designed to install managerial capacity aiming at
economic and structural reforms, the efficacy of its implementation must be judged in
light of its various dimensions. In its financial dimension, performance was satisfactory,
since the level of inputs (disbursement) that the project absorbed was high. In addition,
despite the difficulties encountered during implementation, the project generated a
considerable volume of outputs, particularly in the areas of training and installation of
equipment: 1,400 people benefited from 64 training courses, 43 seminars, 47 courses and
seminars abroad, and 11 trips abroad for exchange of experience; a new institution was
created (National Institute for Juridical Studies, INEJ), and five training centers installed
(at the Ministries of Planning, Finance, and Geology and Mines, at INE and at the
Customs Office); 78 statistical surveys, studies, consultant's reports, reform strategies
and proposals, and legal reform packages were undertaken. The project acquired 219
computers, 56 cars, and other equipment.
4.    In terms of outcome, however, the project cannot be rated successful. On the one
hand, it managed to train public officials and put in place some technical capacity to
formulate and implement economic policies and investment projects; although the
sustainability of such a capacity is now highly questionable (see below). Almost all high
level official advisors and national directors, as well as mid- and upper-level technicians
working in economic management, and the majority of coordinators and administrators of
investment projects were trained with support from the project. In addition, numerous
senior officials have benefited from high-level seminars and training courses. On the 
other hand, the Project has been unsuccessful in promoting the program of reforms that it
intended to support and the structural and economic imbalances remained unresolved.
Insufficient sustained discussion of these issues has emerged at policy-making level as a
result of the project, and no consistent strategy for reform was adopted and implemented.
As a result, there has been no improvement in economic stability or sustained growth,
and many social indicators have worsened despite significant per capita increases in oil
revenues. Overall outcome is therefore unsatisfactory.



5.     Bank performance was satisfactory during the preparation process, but was
unsatisfactory during implementation: first, Bank supervision was too infrequent, given
the exceptional constraints in technical capacity and the weakness of economic
management in Angola, particularly in the first two years of the project; secondly, the
process of providing prior review (No Objections) was unusually slow, and during some
years was done during supervision missions only; thirdly, the Bank was insufficiently
rigorous in its approach to the Mid-Term Review (MTR) (partially because of political
concerns); and finally, the project was managed by an unusually high number of task
managers (six), due in part to organizational changes within the Bank. Borrower
performance was satisfactory in relation to the staff of the PIU despite some weaknesses.
On the part of the authorities, performance was unsatisfactory as they lacked commitment
and a sense of ownership of the project and outcomes, which resulted in a tendency to use
the credit resources as a convenient short-term financing mechanism for government
units suffering from budget constraints rather than in pursuit of reforms.
6.    The outputs and outcome achieved under the project will only be sustainable if
the Government maintains and develops the capacity acquired with the project and can
define and implement a strategy for economic and structural reform that would make use
of this capacity. These two conditions are closely linked since financing recurrent costs
adequately and reliably depends on the very economic and structural reforms the project
aimed to foster, including fiscal reformns to ensure public resources are allocated
appropriately. On current showing commitment by the Government to the reforms
remains uncertain, leading to the risk that the capacity provided is unlikely to benefit the
public sector in the medium- to long-term, and most equipment, training facilities and
vehicles may soon become inoperative. Sustainability therefore still seems unlikely. The
Bank plans no follow up project, because commitment to reform is not yet certain and the
consequent reduction in the Bank's engagement with Angola for the time being.'
Key Lessons Learnt
7.    A number of lessons can be learnt from this capacity building project:
*  Government ownership of the project, and commitment to the reforms it
supports, is essential to the project's success. The lack of these was the
principal failing of this project. While there seemed to be a momentum for
reform at the time the project was prepared, this was weakened by increasing
political instability.
* Where capacity is especially scarce as in Angola, projects should be designed to
include an initial period devoted to training the local staff who will be
responsible for the management of the project.
* In this type of project, the Bank should be prepared to commit the necessary
resources for more intensive supervision than usual. These cannot be
"blueprint" operations designed in full detail from the outset. There is a need to
In late-May 1999, the Government launched a new policy package, with the liberalization of interest and
exchange rates. Further reforms are planned in trade liberalization, privatization, transparency of oil sector
operations, and fiscal control. Given the country's track record, only consistency in implementation
during the next few months can confirm a renewed commitment to reform and, thus, the sustainability of
this new initiative.



- iv -
be responsive to a continuously changing and volatile environment. A team
approach to supervision might have produced more positive outcomes. The
cost of doing business in post-conflict countries can be very high, and Bank
budget resource should be allocated accordingly.
This type of project is particularly susceptible to the problems that Bank
organization changes and a frequent turnover in Country and Task Management
can create. Manifestation of these problems includes delays, breaks in the
continuity of the dialogue and of the Bank's approach to the project, and
confusion on the part of counterparts.
* The Mid-Term Review should be seen as an opportunity to evaluate
performance in pursuit of the outcomes sought. An evaluation of inputs and
outputs alone is not a sufficient indication of this. Where the desired outcomes
are not being achieved, the Bank and the Borrower should consider
restructuring the project, increasing the level of supervision, and including
periodic reviews and triggers for further restructuring or closing the project
should the outcomes still be elusive. These considerations should be applied to
all projects, particularly in post-conflict settings.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING (EMCB) PROJECT
(Credit No. 22740 - ANG)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Angola has endured almost forty years of war, interrupted by only two brief
periods of peace, in 1991-92 and 1994-98. The war for independence started in 1961,
with hostilities worsening just before the Portuguese were ousted in 1975. Independence
was immediately followed by violent and destructive struggles for power between the
Govemment party, the Movimento Popular de Libertacao de Angola (MPLA) and the
rebel Uniao Nacional para a Independencia Total de Angola (UNITA). This conflict has
been a major source of political instability since then.
2.    Despite the war for independence, until early 1970s Angola's production and
exports were relatively large (the country was. the fourth largest coffee producer in the
world) and diversified (agriculture, fisheries, mineral and an incipient manufacturing).
However, virtually all technical and managerial skills in the country were vested in the
Portuguese, and when they fled Angola was left severely handicapped. The new
Government introduced central planning and many existing economic institutions, such
as the bush trader networks, were destroyed. Governnent intervention became pervasive,
the allocation of resources inefficient, macroeconomic imbalances severe, and relative
prices highly distorted. The civil war compounded the situation by destroying
infrastructure, worsening security in rural areas, and increasing the migration of rural
populations to the main cities. The resulting enormous displacement of people
aggravated the problems of unemployment and poverty.
3.   In contrast to the decline in non-oil production and the deterioration in social
conditions, oil production and exports increased continuously in Angola since the early
1970s. From around 170 thousand barrels per day, oil production reached 230 thousand
in the mid-1980s, about 500 thousand in the early 1990s, and about 715 thousand in
1999. Foreign exchange and Government revenue became highly dependent on oil (93%
and 82%, respectively), but oil revenues have been absorbed by debt service, allocative
inefficiencies and the war.
4.    The 1991 cease-fire, followed by the peace accord signed in May 1991, brought
hope for Angola for the first time, and expectations were high among Angolans and their
development partners for economic and social development. The IMF, the World Bank
and other donors quickly started preparing support programs to help the transition from
war to peace, and from central planning to a market incentives-based economy. These
programs included demobilization and reintegration of soldiers; establishing a viable



- 2 -
social safety net; de-mining roads and fields; resettling uprooted populations;
restructuring the role of the state; rationalizing the civil service; reforming trade, the
exchange rate regime, and price and wage policies; selling state assets; promoting
financial reform; and reviewing the legal and institutional framework to create an
enabling environment for the development of the private sector. The Government was ill
equipped to manage these massive reforms, however, and the World Bank put together a
team to prepare a project to build capacity in the govemment to implement projects and
undertake policy reforms. The resulting Economic Management Capacity Building
project (EMCB) was the first project for Angola approved by the Board (June 1991).
5.     Unfortunately, by the end of 1992 the momentum for reform was brought up
short, before any real reforms could be effected. The national elections, which were
acknowledged by the United Nations as fair, were contested by UNITA, and political
instability and military hostilities reemerged. The authorities' attention was diverted
from reforns and again focussed on defense. Non-oil activities and social conditions
deteriorated sharply, and expectations declined among Angolans and their development
partners.
6.     With the signing of the Lusaka Protocol in November 1994, mediated by the UN,
peace was again a possibility. Peace lasted a little longer this time (until May 1998), and
although the government did undertake some initiatives on the democratization front, it
lost a rare opportunity to put in place the needed structural and economic changes.
Nonetheless, because of the absence of war, non-oil GDP grew quite substantially in the
period (an increase of about 10% per annum, on average, between 1995-97, although
followed by a decline of 4% in 1998.) But the persistent imbalances in the current
account and the high fiscal deficits were clearly signaling that these gains, without the
required structural and economic reforms, were unsustainable. As a consequence of these
Box 1. - Key political events in Angola    Box 2. - Key dates in project implementation
1991-98
February  1990 Identification
May   1991   Peace Accord                      February  1991 Appraisal
Dec.     1991 Effectiveness
Sept.  1992   National Elections               June     1992 First mission after
October 1992   Resumption of hostilities                      effectiveness
Nov.   1994   Lusaka Protocol                  March    1995 Mid-Term Review
Jul/Sep 1995   Negotiations with IMF on a Staff
Monitored Program (SMP)
Nov.   1995   IMF finds discussed SMP's
targets not met; Program never
implemented
Oct.   1996   Mr. Camdessus meets President
Dos Santos and offers emergency
credit
April  1997   Government of National Unity     May      1997 Extension approved
and Reconciliation installed    June      1997 Original closing date
August 1998   IMF's SMP again negotiated       Dec.     1998 Project closed
with staff but never implemented
May   1998   Resumption of scattered
hostilities
Dec.   1998   Outbreak of war



- 3 -
imbalances, monetary expansion has been extremely high; annual inflation has been
persistently high, at more than 1,000% until the first quarter of 1997 and around 100%
afterwards; and foreign debt, debt service, and arrears have been accumulating fast. At
the same time, the prospects for the discovery of new oil reserves and increased
production have risen substantially, but future oil production has already been used as
collateral for additional debt.
7.    The economic and political environment surrounding the EMCB project was one
of the most volatile in Angola's history. The period 1991-98 was marked by short-lived
intervals of peace and high expectations, amid periods of increasing uncertainty and
renewed hostilities. During some periods of relative political stability, the Government
started new policy initiatives, such as in July 1995 with discussion of an IMF Staff
Monitored Program, in October 1996, and again in June 1998, when weekly devaluation
began of the official exchange rate, bringing its spread by September down to within 14
percent of the market rate. These initiatives, however, have all been short lived. The
project, meant to respond to the peace process, was also a measure of the Bank's
engagement in Angola. Particularly the decisions during the mid-term review and those
relating to the extension of the closing date were therefore inevitably affected by
considerations of what they would signal to the Government, to other donors, and to the
private sector. As boxes I and 2 illustrate, project decision points were closely tied to
key events in Angola's political scene. Thus, although it was clear the scenario under
which the project was designed had changed after only a few months of project
effectiveness, and that the momentum for structural and economic reforms had weakened
significantly, the Bank may have felt: (a) constrained from taking more assertive action to
address the project's failings because such actions could have appeared as a premature
withdrawal of Bank support to a country struggling to achieve a sustainable peace; and
(b) justified in taking the calculated risk of building capacity for reform in expectation of
future reform initiatives.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    With this project the Government sought to strengthen its capacity to formulate
and implement sound economic policies and investment projects. Over the medium term,
the project would pursue this outcome by providing training to strengthen the economic,
accounting and project analysis skills of Angolan civil servants and by assisting the
authorities in improving the economic data base and streamlining the legal framework.
In the short term, the project would provide technical assistance to the economic
management functions that are critical to the design and implementation of an economic
reform program, including liberalization of the trade, agriculture and industrial sectors.
9.    The project included the following components:
* Human resources development, whose activities included targeted training
programs aimed at improving skills in a) economic management; b) project
analysis; c) accounting and financial management; and d) procurement.
* Economic statistics, whose activities included a) strengthening of the central
statistical agency; and b) improving the collection analysis and dissemination of



-4 -
data. Activities in this component, implemented by the National Institute of
Statistics, complemented earlier work funded through UNDP that continued
during the early stages of the project.
*  Legal assistance, whose activities included a) short and long term consultancies
in support of the development of the economic, legal and regulatory framework
through legal reform; b) capacity building by providing training locally and
abroad, seminars, workshops and equipment, as well as improving the quality
of graduate legal training by means of short term consultancies and twinning
arrangements with foreign academic institutions; and c) the dissemination of
the new regulatory and legal framework through establishing a legal data-base
and strengthening the legal libraries at the key economic and financial agencies
and the School of Law.
*  Public Resource Management, whose activities included providing long and
short tern consultancies to support improvement in public expenditure
allocation, public investment planning and programming including a three year
rolling public investment program (PIP), public enterprise financial monitoring,
and public accounting and financial management.
*  Liberalization Policies, whose activities included studies and advisory services
to support a) designing, implementing and monitoring a trade liberalization
policy and undertaking a rural markets study; b) designing and implementing an
incomes policy (price and wage) reform package; c) preparing an action
program to restore the competitiveness of the industrial sector and carry out a
privatization and liquidation program; and d) undertaking an analysis of
agricultural sector policy issues and development potential. Support was
directed to the Ministry of Finance, and to the Gabinete de Redimensionamento
Empresarial (GARE, the unit responsible for public enterprise restructuring and
privatization at the Ministry of Industry and Commerce).
*  A sixth component, Institutional Support, was added during the Mid-Term
Review to provide training and technical assistance principally to the Ministry
of Finance (MoF), Ministry of Planning (MoP), and the Ministry of Geology
and Mines (MGM).
10.   The Bank chose to support one umbrella technical assistance operation rather than
several smaller ones because of the need to "catch up" in a country that had been a
member of the Bank for only 18 months. This led to a large and complex project.
However, given the uncertainty characterizing Angola at the time, the project was
designed to be implemented with flexibility, allowing for reallocations of resources
between categories and annual fine-tuning of objectives and activities.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
11.   The project was implemented between June 1991 to December 1998, including an
extension period of 18 months. It disbursed some 96 percent of credit funds, as indicated
in Table 8A in Part 2, and the Government provided counterpart funds as promised.



- 5 -
Disbursements were delayed relative to what was planned, and there was some variation
between planned and actual disbursements for each component, and by category. As
Figure 1 in the ICR Mission Aide Memoire in Annex I shows, implementation was slow
during the first two years of the project, due to early difficulties in implementation.
Disbursements improved considerably between the second semester of 1993 until the
second semester of 1996, and then slowed again during 1997 because of new problems in
project coordination in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Disbursements improved
again between July 1997 and December 1998, due to a restructuring of the PIU, a new
action plan for the extension period, and closer supervision by the Bank. In fact,
disbursements during the extension period amounted to 27 percent of total disbursements
(an annual average of $3 million as compared to an average of $2 million during previous
years,) and a significant number of activities took place, suggesting that on the basis of
inputs and outputs the extension was justified expost. The extension had been justified
ex ante by the high expectations for peace brought about by the Lusaka Protocol and the
prospects for an adjustment program with the IMF, which in the event never materialized.
12.   Because this was a wide-ranging technical assistance project designed to install
managerial capacity aiming at economic and structural reforms, the efficacy of its
implementation must be judged in the light of its various dimensions. In its financial
dimension, performance was satisfactory, since the level of inputs (disbursement) that the
project absorbed was high. In addition, despite the difficulties encountered during
implementation, the project generated a considerable volume of outputs, as Appendix C
illustrates, particularly in the areas of training and installation of equipment. In both of
these dimensions, therefore, it was relatively successful in comparison to similar
technical and capacity building projects in the region. However, for a number of reasons
that are examined in section D, the project failed with respect to desired "outcomes", i.e.
the achievement of development objectives.
13.   Human Resources Development. The number of civil servants trained exceeded
its target of 800 individuals and had a positive impact (see sections D and E below),
although sustainability over the long term is in question. Six hundred and seventy four
civil servants took part in 32 different training courses, and 190 senior policy makers
took part in 16 specialized seminars. The training activities, including courses and
seminars, covered the following broad areas: macroeconomic management (24 activities);
development, evaluation and management of investment projects (13 activities); public
administration (7 activities); human resources management in the public sector (10
activities); regional planning (10 activities); training of trainers (6 activities); as well an
English language course and 2 computer courses. The individuals trained ranged from
Vice-ministers through high level technicians to mid level technicians, including many
from the Provincial Governments, as well as some individuals from the major public
enterprises. Over half were from the main economic institutions: the Ministry of
Planning, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank and the Planning Office (including
the Provincial Planning Offices). Ministers, Vice-ministers, Provincial Governors, Vice-
governors, Members of the Assembly, and advisors attended the seminars. Attendance at
the training courses was consistently high (average attendance per course was 17). The
Project Unit reports that Provincial Government personnel in particular welcomed this
component of the project. Attendance at the seminars was more mixed, and those
seminars planned for 1998 had to be cancelled due to lack of support from the authorities.



- 6 -
The component also supported diagnostic studies on training needs in i) economics; ii)
accounting and financial management; iii) investment projects; and iv) Provincial
Planning Offices.
14.   Economic Statistics. As a condition for Bank support, a consultant prepared a
strategic plan for statistics in Angola, the Plano Director cle Desenvolvimento de
Estatisticas em Angola in 1991, but the Government did not approve it until 1993, and
the plan was never followed. As a result, much of INE's work lacked a focus on
priorities, which lead to difficulties in improvements in sequencing in the collection and
management of data. The principal achievements of the component were: a) an
improvement in the technical ability of INE to produce national statistics, through the
work of consultants who developed the basis for better data collection and dissemination
in the areas of prices, foreign trade, industry, employment, household living conditions,
categorization of economic activities and dissemination of statistical data; b) an increase
in qualified staff, from 12 to 74 high and mid level technicians; and c) a marked
improvement in the stock of equipment available, particularly computers and desktop
publishing equipment. The component suffered from several critical weaknesses,
however. First, it failed to follow up on much of the work produced by the consultants,
mainly because of lack of funding from the state budget. Secondly, INE was only able to
attract and retain new staff by paying significant bonuses (premios) from project
counterpart funds above the civil service salary, which have not been matched from the
normal state budget since the close of the project. Moreover, state budget allocations for
INE fell far short of what was necessary to finance regular operational expenses and, in
effect, almost all current and capital needs of INE were financed from credit funds. For
these reasons, INE is particularly prone to problems of sustainability. Thirdly, INE
experienced problems of project coordination, which resulted in lengthy delays in the
approval of activities by the Project Implementation Unit. Fourth, of particular concern
is the failure under the project to implement and institutionalize a new system of National
Accounts, leaving the current system ad hoc and untransparent. Finally, the Government
did not develop the necessary regulatory framework for collection and dissemination of
statistics mandated by the new National Statistics Law, making it difficult for INE to
obtain the necessary data, and impossible to establish a system for national statistics, or to
overhaul its own institutional organization.
15.   Legal Assistance. Despite delays in start-up, and difficulties in engaging a
suitable coordinator, the component completed much of its work-plan. In terms of
training the component supported five courses in Angola and eleven courses abroad for
magistrates, lawyers and legal officials; four national seminars; exchange visits abroad;
and the acquisition of books mainly for the Faculties of Economics and of Law at
Agostinho Neto University and for the economic ministries. In addition, the project
supported the creation of a National Institute for Legal Studies (INEJ) whose function is
to design and implement training programs for the legal sector. The project also
promoted the dissemination of laws and legal opinions through support for the
publication and distribution of numerous texts prepared by the Faculty of Law; for a
database of legal publications at the Faculty of Law; a desktop publishing station; and the
preparation of terms of reference for an on-line legal database accessible by the main
legal institutions and the public at large, to be supported by another donor or by another
Bank credit. In terms of legal reform, the project financed a study of the legal system,



- 7 -
which included a priority list of laws to reform. The project thereafter supported the
drafting of a number of new laws, including the Boundaries of Economic Activity Law
(which defines areas not subject to state monopoly rules open to private investment), the
Foreign Investment Law, the Privatization Law, and the Development Planning Law.
The National Assembly has approved these laws, but essential regulations under each of
the laws are mostly not completed, making the new laws largely ineffective. In addition,
the relevant sectoral ministries have reformed a majority of the other laws identified in
the list of priorities, but also without the necessary regulations. Unless the Government
promulgates regulations for the new laws and provides continuous support to training and
dissemination none of these activities is likely to be sustainable.
16.   Public Resources Management. This component achieved few of its
programmed objectives. Numerous long and short term consultants undertook substantial
amounts of work in the form of studies examining revenue sources, detailing financial
flows, and cataloguing government investment programs. From this work emerged only
two instruments to improve financial management -- tableaux de bord (monitoring
matrices) for receipts in the oil and non-oil sectors, and a database of taxes and duties --
and a database for the property tax (imposto predial) in Luanda. Other studies and
recommendations funded by the project on foreign debt, on allocations between central
and provincial governments, and on financial flows between the Government and public
enterprises were not adopted. In-service training was also weak, as long-term consultants
hired to train Angolan officials were often fully engaged in day-to-day line work.
17.   Liberalization Policies. The project supported studies as planned, including on
trade liberalization, on rural markets and agricultural trade, on price and wages
liberalization, and on privatization in the industrial sector. It also provided technical
assistance to GARE including a pilot program of privatization, and to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries, and supported a number of seminars for civil servants and
policy makers. However, the impact of this work on policy design and implementation
was negligible as the reports and recommendations were not followed by policy reform
or any relevant debate among the authorities. Indeed, the structural problems the project
sought to resolve remain and, in some cases, have worsened (see section D).
18.  Institutional Support. Under this component, the project supported: 1) The
Ministry of Finance with technical assistance to the Gabinete de Estudos (the research
center) and the Gabinete de Informatica (the computer data center) for the production of
manuals on organization, methods and procedures; and by equipping the computer data
center's training institute (INFORSEFE) and the Directorate for Customs to carry out
training; 2) The Ministry of Geology and Mining by installing capacity to undertake
Global Information Systems (GIS) mapping, and supporting reforms in the mining laws;
and 3) The Ministry of Panning to develop and maintain a RMSM-X model. In the
Ministry of Finance a consultant produced the manuals on organization, methods and
procedures as planned and they are being used. However, the consultants appear to have
worked in isolation and not to have provided on-the-job training to their Angolan
counterparts. In the Ministry of Geology and Mining, a national seminar on the mining
sector was followed by a new Mining Law, which the Ministry plans to submit to the
Council of Ministers for approval during the next legislative session. The subsidiary
regulations to the law have already been drafted and are ready to be promulgated as soon



- 8 -
as the law is passed. The component also supported the revision of the organizational
structure of the Ministry, which the Ministry plans to implement. Finally, the component
supported equipment and training for a GIS system and a cadaster of the mining sector.
The Mining Law is likely to bring about important and desirable change to the sector, and
if implemented will have a highly positive impact. The GIS system, on the other hand, is
likely to suffer from lack of financial support, and data collection to feed the system will
probably be negligible. The Ministry of Planning appointed staff for a new unit for
economic modeling, and the component supported considerable training and equipment.
However, the Ministry subsequently chose an alternate economic model, and the RMSM-
X unit was never established. The staff trained by the project for this activity has left the
civil service.
19.  In addition, as part of the Humans Resources Development, Economic Statistics,
and Institutional Support component, the project supported five new training centers to
facilitate and improve the efficiency of training in the Ministries of Planning, Finance,
and Geology and Mines, in the Customs Office, and at INE. These were completed
during the last year of the project. Their success will depend on the respective
institutions incorporating them into the normal training activities and supporting them
adequately financially. Those in the Customs Office and the Ministry of Finance are
being put to regular use and currently enjoy continued financial support. The future of
the training rooms in the Ministry of Geology and Mines, INE and the Ministry of
Planning is less certain. The first two have been used sporadically, but reliable financial
support is not available, while the third was designed specifically for the Human
Resources Component of the project, was installed too late to be used by the project, and
is unlikely to be used with any regularity in the future.
D. PROJECT OUTCOMES
20.   Outcomes of the project can be measured by a) improvement in the Governrment's
technical capacity to formulate and implement economic policies and investment projects
(the explicit expected outcome of the project); and b) improvement of economic and
social indicators resulting from the effective implementation of the economic reforms
that the project aimed to foster (the implicit expected outcome). As to the first of these
measures, the evidence suggests that the project has been successful. Almost all high
level advisors and national directors, as well as mid- and upper-level technicians working
in economic management have been trained with support from the project. This includes
staff in the Ministries of Planning and Finance, the Treasury, the Central Bank, as well as
magistrates among others. Moreover, the majority of coordinators and administrators of
projects in Angola, whether financed by the World Bank or not, have been trained with
support from the project. In addition, past and present Ministers, Vice-ministers, Central
Bank Administrators and other members of government have benefited from high-level
seminars and training courses. As a further indicator of the positive impact of this aspect
of the project, Government officials report a great improvement in the quality of dialogue
on macroeconomic management and reform issues among technical staff in the relevant
sectors.
21.   The evidence in the case of the second measure points in the other direction, and
shows that the Government did not take advantage of the project to promote reforms in



-9-
economic policies. The structural and economic problems that the project sought to
address were not resolved2, including those concerning a) the price structure
(inappropriate exchange rate regime, distorting taxes, prices and wages); b) fiscal policy
(a fiscal deficit of 20% of GDP on average between 1992-98, the need for greater
transparency in public revenue flows, and the lack of a strategy for human resource
management in the public sector); c) the legal framework (inadequate legal framework,
and laws awaiting appropriate regulations); d) public resources management (methods
and systems incomplete or inoperative); e) economic statistics (lack of reliable national
accounts and other basic statistical information); and f) liberalization policies (the need
for restructuring of economic sectors, and privatization or liquidation of inefficient public
enterprises). In fact, not only have the results hoped for from reforms fostered by the
project failed to emerge, but the situation has worsened since before the project began.
Thus, even though per capita oil exports have increased during the period there has been
no improvement in economic stability and social indicators have, at best; not changed
since the beginning of the decade, and many have worsened. Thus, overall project
outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
E. SUSTAINABILITY OF OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES
22.   The outputs and outcomes achieved under the project will only be sustainable if
the Government has the necessary understanding, involvement and commitment to a)
maintain and develop the capacity acquired with the project; and b) can define and
implement a strategy for economic and structural reform that can make effective use of
this capacity. These two conditions are closely linked. Specifically, recurrent costs need
to be adequate and reliable so as to maintain computers, vehicles and other equipment;
salary support for qualified personnel; consunable and materials for collection of data for
INE, management of INEJ, and maintenance for the five training centers. Without fiscal
reforms to prioritize allocation of public resources the Government will have, in the
current circumstances, difficulty ensuring these costs are met. Therefore, the
sustainability of the project itself depends on the very economic and structural reforms
the project aimed to foster. Commitment by the Government to the reforms remains
uncertain. Thus, while the training has undoubtedly improved the quality of debate on
economic issues among technical staff, and project management skills have increased,
these, unless commitment with reforms strengthens markedly, are unlikely to benefit the
public sector in the medium term, and most equipment, training facilities and vehicles
risk quickly becoming inoperative. Sustainability is therefore rated as unlikely.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   Bank support for the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The project was
recognized explicitly as risky, because of the scant implementation capacity of the
borrower and the embracing size of the project. However, given the urgent needs created
by the peace accord of 1991, and the opportunity to show the benefits of the Bank's
membership, these risks were considered worth taking. To offset these risks, preparation
included a detailed needs assessment, a systematic team approach to design, and close
coordination with other donors already present in the sector. The project was designed to
2 See footnote I in page iii



- lo-
be implemented with greater latitude and flexibility in applying Bank operational rules, to
include more intensive supervision than normal, and for annual reviews to adjust to
project to changing needs and circumstances.
24.   Bank performance during supervision suffered from a number of weaknesses,
however. First, the Bank failed to establish a form of supervision that properly reflected
its perceptions during preparation. Despite less than adequate supervision, supervision
costs were higher than expected, due to the unexpectedly high cost of doing business in
Angola. As a result of weak supervision during the early stages of implementation, about
two years were wasted at the beginning of the operation because of administrative
problems and difficulties arising from strict adherence to the Bank's conventional
practices and processes, and largely because of unfamiliarity of Government officials
with those practices. It would probably have been more efficient for the Bank to have
devoted the first six or twelve months following the Credit's effectiveness exclusively to
training the officials involved in project management.
25.   Second, the process by which the Bank provided its "No Objection" was
unusually slow, and during some years was left to be done until the supervision missions
took place. This explains the fact that the years when supervision was more frequent, in
1994, 1995 and 1996, and 1998 disbursements were higher. By comparison, in 1997
(because of the departure of the Task Manager) only one supervision mission visited
Angola, leading to very slow disbursement. Other evidence also points to periods of
weak supervision, such as poor supervision reporting for the Bank's internal records.
26.   Third, the Bank missed the opportunity offered by the Mid-Term Review (MTR)
to assess the progress of the project and restructure or change it in the light of new
circumstances. By 1995, in the aftermath of the severe 1993 to 1994 war, it was already
becoming evident that the Government was not fully committed to the project or to
economic reform. The MTR supervision report gave some important warnings.
However, as the MTR took place shortly after the Lusaka Protocol, the Bank was anxious
to be supportive of the fragile peace process, and the project ended up not being
restructured adequately to take account of those warnings. No conditions, triggers or
performance monitoring indicators were put in place to help achieve an improved
commitment on the part of the Government, and no provisions were included for closing,
reducing the size or restructuring the project should that commitment not emerge.
27.   Finally, the project was managed by an unusually high number of task managers,
six from preparation to closing. This partly reflected organizational changes within the
Bank (e.g., responsibility for Angola went through four directors during preparation and
implementation of this project, and from AF I to AF6, then AF3.) This undoubtedly led
to delays, breaks in the continuity of the dialogue and Bank's approach to the project,
and some confusion on the part of Angolan counterparts. Moreover, notably during the
first two years of the project the supervision missions were conducted by the task
manager alone. In later years, missions included specialists in areas of concern, such as
mining, financial management, and private sector development, and in some years the
project was given greater attention than official documentation suggests, through
informal visits and through extensions of other missions visiting the country. All in all,



- I I -
however, supervision was inadequate and too infrequent given the complexity and
breadth of the project, especially considering the extremely low capacity of the borrower.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   Borrower performance can be assessed from two perspectives, that of the
authorities, and that of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The main weakness on
the part of the authorities was a decline in commitment to the project and a lack of a
sense of ownership of the outcomes of the project. Throughout implementation of the
project the Government conviction in the desirability of the reforms the project was
supporting was not clear. This resulted in an absence of drive to use the credit resources
as effectively as possible in pursuit of reforms, but rather led to a willingness to use the
credit as a short-term financing mechanism for purchasing equipment, vehicles and
consumables for government units suffering from budget constraints. Similarly, the
payment from counterpart funds of 'premios' to civil servants associated with the project
allowed the Government to attract and retain qualified personnel that they would need
anyway in certain key positions. Thus, credit funds were often simply a substitute for
regular budget allocations.
29.   The staff of the PIU of this project was notable for its high level of
professionalism and commitment. However, there were weaknesses, including: a) poor
communication between the PIU and the heads of the components due largely to the size
and complexity of the project that, combined with the weak capacity of the PIU staff
especially at the beginning of the project, led to communication problems and delays in
the processing of TORs and other necessary procedures; b) the fact that PIU leadership
was affected by the illness of the first coordinator of the project, which began in 1995 and
ended with the appointment of a new coordinator in 1998, and weakened leadership
particularly during 1997; and c) the effects of a wide difference in pay between
coordinators of the components, who were paid in local currency the equivalent of a
$1,200 per month at the official exchange rate (which usually was as little as half the
parallel exchange rate), and the coordinator of the project who was paid in dollars
between $3,500 and $3,600 per month, causing morale and further coordination
problems.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
30.   A number of lessons can be learned from this capacity building project:
* Government ownership of the project, and commitment to the reforms it
supports, is essential to the project's success. The lack of these was the
principal failing of this project. While there seemed to be a momentum for
reform at the time the project was prepared, this was weakened by increasing
political instability.
* Where capacity is especially scarce as in Angola, projects should be designed to
include an initial period devoted to training the local staff who will be
responsible for the management of the project.
* In this type of project, the Bank should be prepared to commit the necessary
resources for more intensive supervision than usual. These cannot be



- 12 -
"blueprint" operations designed in full detail from the outset. There is a need to
be responsive to a continuously changing and volatile environment. A team
approach to supervision, might have produced more positive outcomes. The
cost of doing business in post-conflict countries can be very high, and Bank
budget resource should be allocated accordingly.
This type of project is particularly susceptible to the problems that Bank
organizational changes and a frequent turnover in the Country and Task
Management can create. Manifestation of these problems includes delays,
breaks in the continuity of the dialogue and Bank's approach to the project, and
confusion on the part of counterparts.
* The Mid-Term Review should be seen as an opportunity to evaluate
performance in pursuit of the outcomes sought. An evaluation of inputs and
outputs alone is not a sufficient indication of this. Where the desired outcomes
are not being achieved, the Bank and the Borrower should consider
restructuring the project, increasing the level of supervision, and including
periodic reviews and triggers for further restructuring or closing the project
should the outcomes still be elusive. These considerations should be applied to
all post-conflict projects.



- 13 -
PART II STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Assessment Categories     j Substantial        Partial       Negligible        Not
________________________________  ______________   L   |______________  | _______ _   A pplicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                               X
Sector Policies                                                      x
Financial Objectives                                                 X
Institutional development                            X
Physical objectives                                  X
Gender concerns                                                                      x
Other social objectives                                              x
Environmental objectives                                                             X
Public sector management                                             X
Human resources development                          X
Private sector development                                           x
Other
B. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Likely                       Uncertain                        Unlikely
Iem=  -                                       x
C. BANK PERFORMANCE
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                                         x
Preparation                                            X
Appraisal                                               X
Supervision                                                          X
D. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Stage of Project Cycle J  Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                                            X
Implementation                                                                  x
Covenant Compliance                                    X



- 14-
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly         Satisfactory      Marginally       Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                       Unsatisfactory
x
Table 2: Related Bank Credits and Loans
Preceding Operations -- None
Following Operations
Title                : Financial Institutions
Credit no.           :24210
Year of approval     :1992
Amount               : US$21 million
Purpose              : The Project supports institution building and reform in Angola's
financial system to help stimulate resource mobilization, underpin private investment and
promote economic diversification.
Status               : Active (expected closing date: 4/30/2000)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned              Date actual/estimate
Identification                           N/A                         02/15/90
Preparation                              N/A                         07/09/90
Appraisal                                N/A                         02/08/91
Negotiations                             N/A                         04/25/91
Board presentation                      06/91                        06/19/91
Signing                                  N/A                         07/26/91
Effectiveness                           09/91                        12/1 8/91
Credit closing                         06/30/97                      12/31/98
Source: Project Files.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in millions of $US)
|FY 92  FY 93  FY 94 | FY 95   FY 96  FY 97  FY 98 |FY99
Appraisal estimate        2.11     8.96   16.88   22.16   23.0    0       0       0
Actual 1/                 .64    1.75    5.0    9.94   14.43   18.23   21.4   23.4
Actual as % of estimate  30.3% 119.5%   29.6%   44.9%   62.7%
Date of Final disbursement: May 4,1999
I/ Cumulative actual in FY 99 exceeds original commitment when calculated in US dollars, but in SDR
terms, actual disbursements were 96% of the credit funds.
Source: Bank MIS.



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable. The preparation of the project's SAR took place before the development of these
indicators had become part of the appraisal process.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable. As above.
Table 7: List of Main Studies Included in the Project
Study                                          Sub-component
Diagnosis and assessment of the National System of Public Investment               Human Resources
Needs assessment for capacity building in the area of economic management
Needs assessment for capacity building in the area of accounting and finance
Report on the structure and organization of the Provincial Planning Offices
Report on prices                                                                   Statistics
Report on external trade statistics
Report on industrial statistics
Report on employment and unemployment
Report on dissemination of statistical information
Report on conducting priority surveys
Report on the statistical classification of economic activities
Report on the revitalization of the Information System SIRED
Study on judiciary and administrative reform                                       Legal
Revision of the National Institute of Statistics organic and statistical law         g
Report on the diagnosis of the Justice Administration
Report on the creation of an Auditing Tribunal"
Report on the creation of INEJ
Report on the elaboration of the Organic Statue of the Administrative Tribunal and for the
creation of the Administrative Process Law
Report on the development of the legal data base
Report on the regulation of the public enterprises' law
Support study for privatization                                                    Liberalization
Report on privatization                                                            policies
Survey of recently privatized enterprises
Report on the preparation of a seminar on rural extension
Report on forestry and its contribution to development
Report by resident consultant in the area of agricultural liberalization
Study on rural infrastructure
Rural surveys
Report on trade liberalization
Report on prices and salaries
Study on external debt                                                             Management of
Report on public resource management                                               public resources
Report on public expenditures management
Report on financial control of public enterprises
Report on mobilization of public resources
Report on programming of public investment



- 16-
Report by consultant supporting the National Budget Office                              Institutional support
Report on organization and methodologies
Report by consultant supporting GAI in the Ministry of Finance
Auditing report on MINGEO (laboratory)
Report on the use of the Mining Registrar and National Geographic System
Report on the reform of the Legal Group in the mining sector
Study on the management of the mining concessions
Source: Angolan authorities.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                Appraisal Estimate (US$mm)               Estimated Actual Costs (US$mm)
Local      Foreign costs    Total         Local        Foreign        Total
costs                       costs        Costs I/       costs         Costs
Human Resources and             0.33          5.17           5.5                        8.05
Development
Economic Statistics             0.60          1.80           2.4                        1.68
Legal Assistance                0.17          2.62          2.79                        2.69
Public Resources                0.19          3.59          3.78                        2.00
Management
Liberalization Policies         0.59          3.78          4.37                        2.70
Institutional Support                                                                   3.44
Project Implementation          0.71          2.09           2.8                        2.68
Unit                                                _
Unallocated                     0.16          1.62          1.78
Base cost                       2.75         20.67         23.42
Contingencies                   0.31          2.33          2.64
Total Project Costs             3.06         23.00         26.06          5.51         23.25         28.76
Source: Bank MIS and staff estimates.
1/ Actual local cost by item is not available.
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$mm)
Source               Appraisal estimate             [         Actual/atest estimate
Local       Foreign*        Total        Local        Foreign*       Total
costs        costs         Costs         costs         costs         costs
IDA                             23.00         23.00                       23.25        23.25
Government        3.06                        3.06          5.51                        5.51
Total             3.06          23.00         26.06         5.51          23.25        28.76
Official exchange rate.
Table 9 Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



- 17 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreementl    Covenant  Status                    Covenant Description and Comments
Section         Type   |_l
Section 3.03 (b)                C     Furnished no later than four weeks prior to annual reviews, an evaluation
report of the Project implementation, by component
Section 3.05                    C    Continue to maintain, during the execution of the Project, (i) a Project
Coordinating Committee, (ii) the Component Coordinating Committee,
(ii) the project Unit, (iv) the Project Coordinator, and (v) the Project
Administrator.
Section 3.04                    C    Appoint qualified local counterpart staff to work closely with the
consultants to be employed by the Project.
Section 4.01                    C     Have the records and accounts of the project, including those of the
(bXi)                                 Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors and acceptable to IDA.
C= covenant complied with
Source: Legal Covenant Report: Latest Status of Covenant Compliance.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. None
-2.
3.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Actual
Stage of project   Week    US$      W
cycle    _                      Weeks
Preparation to      ..      ..      82.2        191.6
appraisal
Appraisal            ..    ..       27.3'       51.6'
Negotiations         ..    ..       14.8        35.0
through Board
approval
Supervision        113.5  301.6    233.5        569.9
Completion         17.2   29.5      3.3         10.2
1. Includes LEN
.. not available
Source: Project Files.



- 18-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project    Month   Number      Days        Specialized    Performa         Types of
cycle        /Year       of       in field      staff skills     nce        problems/ Notes
_________ persons                  represented      rating
Identification      02/90      NA         NA       NA                  NA               NA
Preparation         07/90       6          66       LEG,MACO,PF        NA               NA
Appraisal through    02/91      8          95       AGRIC,IND,M         2             NONE
Board approval                  4         NA        ACRO,PF,OPA
Supervision
Supervision I     09/23/91      1          17       MACRO               1             NONE
Supervision 2      11/12/91     l          10       MACRO            No form          NONE
590
Supervision 3     06/12/92      1          8       MACRO                2       Project executing
slowly with few
results and little local
commitment (from
BTO of August 92)
Supervision 4      3/30/94      1          11       MACRO               s       Government has
3          115     DISB                         begun taking the
agreed measures after
some delay
End 94, Government
Supervision 5      11/18/94     2         42        MACRO               S       abandoned reform
program. New
program is being
revised by Bank/IMF
Supervision 6     03/11/95      2         NA        MACRO,OPA           S       Idem
Supervision 7     04/17/96    NA          NA       NA                 U & S    Angola is facing
economic crisis.
Reform program with
IMF and Bank was
suspended in
Nov.95(inflation
reached 7,400%,and
budget deficit 29%of
GDP)
Supervision 8     03/26/97      3          63       MACRO, PF           S       Project's main
objective of
improving local
capacity in macro
management is being
gradually met.
U & S    Idem, but Government
has been slow in



-19-
implementing the
recommendations of
the technical
assistance and
conditions created
through project
financing
Supervision 9      03/06/98      3          36       MACRO               U&S    Effectiveness of
project is still to be
seen due to lack of
Government
commitment to its
development
objectives
Supervision 10     11/27/98      1           7        MACRO              U & S
Idem
Completion         04/19/99      2          20        MACRO,OPE
Source: Project files and Fo rms 590's.



-20 -                            Appendix A
Page I of 9
AIDE-MEMOIRE
(April 19-28, 1999)
WORLD BANK MISSION FOR THE PREPARATION OF THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) ON THE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(EMCBP)
(Credit No. 2274-ANG)
1.    A World Bank mission visited Angola from April 19 to 28, 1999 to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Economic Management Capacity Building
Project (EMCBP; Credit No. 2274-ANG). Leading the mission was Mr. Joao do Carmo Oliveira
(Senior Economist, AFTMI), accompanied by Mr. Jocelyn T. Mason (Consultant), and Mr.
Carlos Sousa (Procurement Specialist, AFMAO - Local Office). The purpose of the mission was
to: (a) analyze project implementation, in light of the recommendations contained in the Aide-
Memoire of the previous supervision mission (December 9, 1998); (b) discuss the Borrower's
contribution to the ICR, including the Plan of Operations to be prepared by the Project
Coordinating Committee, under the Government's direction; (c) coordinate discussions, and note
the conclusions drawn, at the seminar on project implementation and outcomes; this took place on
April 26, and was attended by the beneficiaries, the coordinators of the various components and
subcomponents, and government officials; (d) discuss this Aide-Mdmoire, and the mission's
conclusions, with the authorities.
2.    Once again, the mission had an opportunity to meet with persons either directly or
indirectly involved in the project, in particular, the Coordinating Committee and the Component
and Subcomponent Coordinating Committees. It also consulted with the various bodies,
agencies, and ministries that benefited from the project. It also interacted with the Coordinating
Unit of FINSEC (the Financial Modernization Project), which helped finance the costs of
completing the project, and with the Central Bank (BNA), and had contact with UNDP and
USAID.
3.    The mission wishes to express its thanks to the Angolan officials and authorities for their
assistance, cooperation, and valuable explanations. They provided these in accordance with the
highest professional standards, and with their characteristic frankness. The mission is especially
grateful to Mr. Philip Owusu, who, as the World Bank's Resident Representative in Luanda, was
unstinting in offering material and logistic support for the success of the mission, and whose
recommendations proved to be of considerable importance.
4.    Because this is a project offering technical assistance over a wide field and involving a
comparatively high level of complexity as regards management, its implementation must be
judged in light of its various dimensions. In its financial dimension, performance has been
efficient, since the level of inputs (financial disbursement) that the project absorbed has been
quite high. In addition, despite the difficulties encountered during implementation, the project
generated a considerable volume of outputs. In both of these dimensions, therefore, it was
comparatively successful, and in this geographical region such an achievement is not very
common for projects designed to build technical and institutional capacity. However, for a
number of reasons that are examined below, the project left something to be desired with respect
to "outcomes"; i.e. the achievement of development objectives.



-21-                              Appendix A
Page of 2 of 9
5.    The mission focused its efforts on gathering information that would enable it to analyze
the following five fundamental issues, which are directly related to the completion of
implementation: the use of the Credit (in terms of financial inputs and their application); project
impact (i.e. outputs and outcomes); the conditions necessary for the outcomes to be sustainable;
the quality of implementation (including Bank performance and Borrower performance); and the
key lessons learned during implementation.
A - Use of Resources
6.     Figure 1 reflects the uncertainties and problems faced by project management over the
first two years (from June 1991 to July 1993). These produced considerable - and lasting -
delays in implementation, even though, from the second half of 1993 to the second half of 1996,
enormous efforts were devoted to making up for lost time and to intensifying project activities.
The 1992 elections, the political conflicts, and the subsequent fresh outbreak of arrned hostilities
diverted the Govemment's attention from the project, making start-up extremely difficult.
7.    Figure I also indicates the negative impact produced on disbursements in 1997 by
problems associated with the project's central coordinating agency (the Project Unit). In the end,
however, project performance with regard to disbursements was quite satisfactory, and this was
probably due to the new Action Plan negotiated when the Credit was extended in June 1997,
together with the restructuring of the project's coordinating mechanisms and the intensification of
Bank supervision in 1998. The 18-month extension (from July 1997 to December 1998) enabled
project performance to achieve a high level of credit disbursement (96%), and even to exceed the
planned level of disbursement for local counterpart funds. (However, execution of the latter
contribution is measured at the official exchange rate, which overvalues the currency.) (See
Table 1.)
Figure 1: EMCBP
Disbursements: Planned and Actual
30000
25000
20000                                                     
Planned
U                                                                  0- Actual
SS 15000                                                           O
ml 
0
1 0000               /
0
0
5000~ -                   O
0 0
0
40O '



- 22 -                            Appendix A
Page of 3 of 9
8.     During the six years of implementation originally provided for under the project, 69% of
the Credit was disbursed (an annual average of US$1.971 million), and an additional 27% was
disbursed over the subsequent 18 months (at an annual average of US$3.095 million). In
retrospect, this could justify the decision made in 1997 to extend the Credit period (see Table 1).
Fgu= Z 2VKIR Stutue f                          aF
12%
was Humn  esureHevlopen,  hihccuntdor35odsbrsm   fesoloed
lithS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ _ ~~~~~~350%
14% /o
Lneguioal Assitne(4;seFgr  )   ea  sitneadLbrlzto   oiisec
11%_
aboreb ic Res mSttistcs
101/o                11/n
9.        As regards the centra  ma etso the component that benefited most from the Credit
wvas Human Resource Development, which accounted for 35% of disbursements, followed by
Institutional Assistance (I14%; see Figure 2). Legal Assistance and Liberalization Policies each
absorbed I11%. Public RZesource Management and Economic Statistics took up IO% and 7%
respectively, while the central management of the project, represented by the Project IJnit
component, accounted for 12%  of costs.  Figure 3 below compares actual and planned
disbursements, and Figure 4 places the components in the order of their respective
implementation rates. In addition to the Project Unit component, Human Resource Development
and Institutional Assistance were fully implemented, and even exceeded their original targets.
The remaining components fell short of the levels of disbursement originally planned, confirming
the low absorptive capacity of the sectors in question (i.e. the legal framework, statistics,
liberalization, and public resource management).
Figure 3. EMCBP: Disbursements,          Figure 4. EMCBP: Implementation Rate
Plannied and Actual
s  a 11k                                    e         
D0                                            1
R                                           r    ig
T                                           e
HR.    Po.U Ui  91   S~   Liberali   P.R.M.



- 23-                               Appendix A
Page of 4 of 9
10.    Because this project was concerned with economic management capacity building, it was
designed to finance training and studies and the establishment of libraries, a study center, and
classrooms, as well as providing these facilities with the necessary computers, projectors, and
reprographic and communications equipment. It was anticipated that these activities would
receive considerable support from the services of external consultants, as the project outputs and
outcomes came to be internalized in the country's economic management activities. Even though
some discrepancies did arise between the original planning of disbursements and their subsequent
execution, more than four fifths of the Credit was devoted to the costs of training, studies, and
consulting services (see Table 2, Figure 5). However, expenditures on vehicles, and especially on
office equipment and supplies, greatly exceeded the allocations originally planned. This reflects
both the unreliability of local transportation, communications, and computer services, and also
the use of the resources of the project for activities only indirectly related to its objectives.
Nevertheless, the actual operating costs for managing the project were only 5.5% of total
disbursements, indicating that resource allocation was comparatively efficient.
Figure 5. EMCBP: Disbursements,
by Category of Expenditure
60.0
P50.0
e 40.0
e20.0                                                      _-iDPanned
100t                         *Actual
0.0  Tr   Co   Off  Op   Ve   St   8o   Go
ain  ns    E    er   hic  udi  ok   od
ing  ult   qu.   ati   les   es    s     S&
ant  &s   ng                 &    Se
sI    up.                    Ma    rv.
I1.    The impact of the project should be measured in terms of both its output and its
anticipated and actual outcome. The various aspects of the output are the direct result of the
activities of the project's management, and are usually the direct consequences of the
management's actions. The "outcome" is associated with the development objectives of the
project, but does not depend exclusively on the performance of the project's management, since
the authorities, when formulating and implementing their policies and reforms, do not always
accept the recommendations arising from the various project "outputs" (e.g. reports and studies,
consulting services, technical training, etc.).
I - Project Output
12.   In terms of output, implementation was efficient, compared with similar projects in the
region. The project carried out a considerable number of the important activities and actions that
had been planned, and Table 4 lists the number of the most significant of these, by component.
Overall, 64 training courses and 43 seminars were held in Angola, while Angolan nationals
participated in 47 courses/seminars abroad, and II trips were organized to enable Angolans to
carry out case studies in other countries. These activities provided about 3,000 person/sessions,
with about 1,400 individuals receiving training; thus, the project's quantitative targets for training



- 24 -                              Appendix A
Page of 5 of 9
were exceeded. The "Human Resource Development" component alone provided training for
864 individuals (1,753 person/sessions), even though the original target was 800.
13.   In addition to the training provided for individuals, another of the project's achievements
was to establish a new institution (INEJ: the National Institute of Legal Studies) and five fully
equipped classrooms (one each in the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Finance, the National
Statistical Institute, the Agostinho Neto University, and the Customs), and to produce 78 studies
(statistical surveys, special studies, consultants' reports, policy strategies and proposals, and draft
legislation). To complement the training provided for civil servants and enable them to carry out
their work effectively and efficiently, the project provided 219 computers and 56 vehicles for
various units in both the central and the provincial governments. It also benefited a number of
government agencies (e.g. the Ministry of Planning, the National Statistical Institute, the Ministry
of Finance, the Enterprise Restructuring Unit/Ministry of Commerce, MINGEO, the Ministry of
Justice, various provincial governments, etc.) by providing financing for other types of equipment
(i.e. photocopying machines, cabinets, desks and chairs, walkie-talkie radios, and cellular
telephones), together with supplies such as toner and inks for document copying, other frequently
used materials, etc.
14.   The main issue the Government now faces is whether these activities can remain
sustainable after the Credit has been closed. In light of the mission's interviews and contacts with
component coordinators and beneficiaries over the final year of project supervision, and during
this mission for finalizing project implementation, it definitely feels that there is a serious danger
of the activities generated by the project being discontinued unless the authorities implement an
appropriate Plan of Operations and definitely commit the necessary resources.
2. - Project Outcomes
15.   The anticipated final outcomes generated by the project (in terns of development
objectives) fall into the following two categories: (a) a substantial increase in the Government's
technical capacity for formulating and implementing economic policies and capital investment
projects; (b) an improvement in economic and social indicators, as a result of the effective
implementation of a balanced program of government reforms.
16.   As regards the increased technical capacity for policy formulation and implementation,
the project had many outputs (see Section B. 1. above), and these provided the Government with a
level of technical capacity that did not exist prior to the project (see Table 5). Even though the
mission is still awaiting the findings of the impact evaluation (for which the Government has
hired the company CESO Consultores Internacionais, and which is to be forwarded to the World
Bank by May 31, 1999 so that the ICR can be completed), there are signs that this first outcome
has been achieved, at least in part. It is said that the project has provided training for almost all
the Government's advisers and national directors, and for many of its medium- and higher-level
specialists working in the field of economics (including those in the Ministries of Planning and
Finance, the National Treasury, the Central Bank, and certain other officials, such as judges, etc.).
This training took the form of both courses in Angola or abroad, and on-the-job training received
by staff serving as the national counterparts of project-financed expatriate consultants. Most
coordinators and managers in other projects currently being implemented in Angola (whether or
not these are World Bank-financed) have also received training under this project. Among those
who have received some form of additional training in high-level seminars financed by the
project are former and current Ministers of State, together with administrators of the Central
Bank. Consequently, it can be said that the project's outcome with regard to building capacityfor
formulating and implementing policies has apparently been very positive.



-25 -                                Appendix A
Page of 6 of 9
17.   However, despite the significant outputs achieved over seven and a half years of
implementation (see Section 2. 1), and even allowing for the capacity that has been built, the
project has unfortunately failed to raise the consciousness of the authorities with regard to the
need to make effective use of the project resources and products provided for them so that they
could move forward with the implementation of reforms and manage the outcomes of these.
Consequently, not only have these objectives (such as stabilization of the currency, economic
growth, and poverty reduction) not been achieved to any satisfactory degree, but there are
indications that the overall situation is more serious now than before project implementation.
Apparently, therefore, the project is reaching its concluding stages in the midst of a certain degree
of frustration and a feeling that the task is as yet unfinished. This seems to be a generalized
feeling, both within project management (the Project Coordinating Committee and the
Component Coordinating Committees) and among the beneficiaries and other observers. The
World Bank staff responsible for monitoring the project understands the situation, and shares that
feeling.
18.   As an example of the point made in the previous paragraph, it should be noted that,
despite the increase in Angola's per capita petroleum exports from about 14 barrels per day in
1991 to 21 barrels per day in 1998, unfortunately this improvement was not reflected in economic
stability or improved living conditions for the population. Moreover, it has been impossible to
take advantage of the economic development potential of Angola's nonpetroleum sectors,
because the desired economic and structural reforms have not been introduced. As a result, the
inflation rate continues to hover at extremely high levels (the lowest over the period in question
having been 150% in 1997 and 135% in 1998), and the social indicators continue to show that the
general situation is no better now than at the beginning of the decade.
19.   Above all, even though the project was intended to support the reform of the economic
policy and incentive mechanisms, these are still outmoded, and must be thoroughly restructured.
The mechanisms in question are: (a) price and trade structures, relating to policies on foreign
exchange, tariffs, prices, and wages; (b) fiscal policy (the fiscal deficit averaged about 20% of
GDP over the 1992-98 period; there is a need for increased transparency with respect to
government revenue flows; and there are no clear priorities for public spending or any explicit
strategy regarding human resources in the public sector); (c) the legal framework (where studies
must be made so that the reforms can be completed, and there are legislative bills that have yet to
be approved, provided with the necessary regulations, and applied); (d) public resource
management systems, since there are methods and systems that are either incomplete or have yet
to be implemented; (e) economic statistics, where there is a need for the National Statistical
Institute to produce an Action Plan; this should ensure that surveys will continue to be made, so
that reliable National Accounts can be maintained, together with other types of basic statistics
that can be regularly issued; (f) liberalization policies, relating to the restructuring and liquidation
of inefficient enterprises and activities, together with the privatization of state assets and
enterprises, so that the technical and allocative efficiency of the country's resources can be
increased.
C - Bank and Borrower Performance
20.   The following sections focus on critical aspects of the performances of the Bank and the
Borrower, the purpose being to identify any key lessons learned that may be relevant to similar
operations in the future.



-26 -                             Appendix A
Page of 7 of 9
I - Bank Performance
21.   The most critical aspects of Bank performance relate to project supervision. First, the
Bank failed to establish a form of supervision that properly reflected its accurate perceptions of
the country's exceptional needs with regard to technical capacity building and economic
management. The deficiencies in these areas were enormous, given that the country was making
the transition to a market economy, and had just joined the Bank. Even though the Bank
acknowledged the need for more intensive supervision than the normal practice, and for annual
reviews and greater latitude and flexibility in applying its operational directives, the Bank failed
to act upon these perceptions. As a result, about two years were wasted at the beginning of the
operation because of administrative problems and difficulties arising from strict adherence to the
Bank's conventional practices and processes, and largely because of unfamiliarity on the part of
government officials with those practices. It would probably have been more efficient for the
Bank to have devoted the first six or twelve months following the Credit's effectiveness
exclusively to training the officials involved in project management. If local staff had received
such training, they would have been saved the problems they had to face and that arose from
Bank processes, the rules governing procurement, the methods of preparing and designing terms
of reference, administrative and financial management, and the relationship between overall
project coordination and component coordination.
22.   Second, the process by which the Bank granted its "no objection" was apparently very
lengthy in the case of this project; it even happened that, in some years of the implementation
period, making such decisions was left until the supervision missions took place. This is related
to the fact that only one mission was carried out in each of the years 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1997,
even though the need for close supervision had been acknowledged. There were two missions in
each of the years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1998, these being the times when the largest
disbursements were made.
23.   Third, despite several performance failures in the overall project, and the Government's
lack of commitment to the project and to economic reform (features that were clearly evident by
1995), the opportunity was not taken to carry out a Midterm Review, and no measures were
adopted for reformulating or establishing conditionalities or automatic triggers that would allow
for the cancellation of the project as a whole, or of individual components of it, if the results were
found to be wanting.
24.   Fourth, it is worth mentioning that the project had five different Task Managers. There is
no doubt that this frequently interrupted the dialogue between the parties, confused the
counterpart staff, and disrupted project implementation.
2 - Borrower Performance
25.   The performance of the Borrower can be examined at government level, and from the
viewpoint of project management. The general feeling concerning the Government is that the
main problem was its low degree of commitment and the lack of a sense of ownership of the
project's outputs and anticipated outcomes. During implementation, there were no clear signs of
the degree to which the Government was convinced of the desirability of the reforms supported
by the project. As a result, it was not greatly concerned with making better use of the project,
other than treating it as a temporary financing instrument that would enable certain officials to be
kept in important technical positions, and would also enable vehicles, equipment, and supplies to
be provided for agencies facing budgetary problems, so that, in certain cases (e.g. the National
Statistical Institute), budget allocations were to some extent replaced by project resources.



- 27 -                           Appendix A
Page of 8 of 9
Similarly, the use of counterpart funds to provide supplementary salary payments (prC;iios) for
civil servants involved in the various components enabled the Government to achieve two goals
at once: retaining these staff-members by augmenting their salaries, and satisfying the terms of
the Credit Agreement by providing the required national counterpart funds. Whether such
bonuses can be continued after the closure of the Credit remains to be seen.
26.   Special mention must be made of the high level of professionalism and dedication shown
by the Angolan project-management team in dealing with its tasks during the implementation
period. In any case, a number of issues should also be considered, relating to the difficulties
encountered in project management: (a) the lack of more effective coordination and
communication between the Project Unit and the various components; (b) the worsening of the
illness that began to affect the Project Coordinator in 1995; (c) the salary discrepancies between
the Project Coordinating Committee and the Component Coordinating Committees.
27.   The need for more effective coordination between the Project Unit and the various
components was the result of the scale and complexity of the project. This, together with poor
initial preparation with respect to the capacity of those responsible for project management
(referred to in Section C. 1. above), created considerable problems of communication, as well as
delays in the preparation and forwarding of terms of reference and in the performance of other
tasks that were important for the progress of the project. The worsening of the illness affecting
the Project Coordinator caused extremely serious difficulties for implementation, especially in
1997. As regards the salary issue, there was considerable discontent among the Component
Coordinators, who resented the fact that they received salaries in local currency (equivalent to
US$1,200 at the exchange rate applied for budget purposes), whereas the Project Coordinator was
paid directly in dollars (US$3,500-US$3,600).
D - Sustainability of Outputs and Outcomes
28.   Many of the intended outputs and outcomes were only incompletely achieved, because of
the authorities' lack of sufficient involvement in the project's development objectives. Even
those outputs and outcomes that were obtained will prove sustainable over the short term only if
the Government shows enough understanding, interest, involvement, and commitment to: (a)
maintaining and developing those management capacities that so far have been built up only to a
comparative degree; (b) clearly defining an economic and structural reform strategy that can
make effective use of those capacities. If there is commitment, these two tasks will serve to
strengthen one another, even though one is necessarily dependent on the other. However, if there
is no commitment, merely completing the implementation phase of the project could mean that,
within a very short period, the capacity that has now been provided could become dispersed,
could weaken, and could finally disappear. That is why it is essential for the Government, as part
of an economic and structural reform strategy, to define a Plan of Operations that is quite clearly
designed to maintain the standards of economic and institutional management capacity that have
been achieved under this project.
29.   As a result, the Government must meet a number of challenges that threaten the
sustainability of the outputs and outcomes achieved during the implementation of this project,
which has now reached its conclusion. In the more general context of macroeconomic and
structural reforms, sustainability will depend particularly on devising a strategy for completing
the transition to a market economy, defining the role of the public sector, and, consequently,
implementing a civil service reform. This will make it possible to rationalize public-service



- 28 -                               Appendix A
Page of 9 of 9
employment and decompress salaries while applying criteria based on productivity and
efficiency, the purpose being to retain the most important specialized staff.
30.    More importantly, the absence of fiscal reforms for establishing the proper priorities for
public spending will create the risk that the other institutional support outputs provided by the
project will henceforth become unsustainable. As a result, the general government budget - or
some other clearly defined source - will have to be drawn upon to cover the recurrent costs of
regularly maintaining equipment and machines (such as computers, photocopiers, vehicles, and
telecommunications equipment), salary bonuses (thepremios provided out of local counterpart
funds), and the consumables (so far provided under the project) that are necessary for continuing
the operations carried out in studies and statistical institutes (such as INEJ and INE, and the
training and research facilities operated by INFORSEF, MinPlan, the Customs, and MINGEO.
31.   A very important issue that should be dealt with in the Plan of Operations - so as to
ensure the sustainability of project outputs - is the project library (consisting of consultants'
reports, together with studies, statistical surveys, proposed reforms, etc.). The final supervision
missions from the World Bank had suggested that this material (which was hardly used during
project implementation, if at all) should be carefully assembled, catalogued, organized into
electronic files and stored in an official library. A complete list of the materials would be broadly
disseminated among all official government agencies, the donor community, universities, the
business world, and other bodies in civil society. The objective is to place this material at the
disposal of potential users, preventing the memory of the information thus documented - and
which could still serve some effective purpose - from being lost.
E - Key Lessons Learned
32.   As a preliminary, the following lessons can be drawn from the implementation of this
project:
(a)    A feeling of ownership on the part of the authorities, and their commitment to a
project's outputs and outcomes, are the sine qua non for that project's complete
success. This was the main failing of the project in question.
(b)    A capacity-building project that is implemented in a context of dire need, as in
the case of Angola, must be designed to be more wide-ranging and of larger
scale, and also to be more focused on particular areas than the present project has
been. Future projects must be allowed a period for the preparation and initial
training of the local teams responsible for managing implementation. In
addition, the Bank must be prepared to devote adequate resources to intensive
and effective supervision.
(c)    Project output and outcomes, together with perforrnance indicators, must be
included in the project design from the very first, and more clearly specified in
the Memorandum of the President. Such projects must include conditionalities
and automatic triggers, and Midterm Reviews must be more effectively utilized
by the World Bank.



- 29 -                       Appendix B
Page lof3
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
Economic Management Capacity Building Project (EMCBP)
OPERATIONS PLAN
Despite the serious problems encountered during implementation of the
EMCB Project, there can be no doubt that it produced inestimable results which have
contributed decisively to the fact that the country's economic management has improved
very significantly and is more broadly understood than previously. For one thing, the
project created or upgraded the technical abilities of local personnel in economic
management in general. For another, it created or upgraded training facilities in the
various disciplines it focused on (e.g. human resources, statistics) independently of their
legal or institutional or nature. The project also upgraded the country's computer
infrastructure, by establishing conditions conducive to expansion of the range of
knowledge for target personnel and to production of economic data essential to sound
economic management.
However, as a program financed with World Bank resources, EMCB reached
completion with no immediate plans for its continuation in the form in which it had been
developed and implemented. Before such plans are made we need to evaluate EMCB
implementation seriously with a view to drawing pertinent lessons from it. This is
precisely what we proposed to do from now on, while further upgrading of the technical
abilities of the Angolan personnel working in macroeconomic management will be left as
far as possible to either PROCAGE (a UJNDP financed project)or the existing university
institutions and other initiatives.
The aim of this Operations Plan is to announce and give assurances that the
Government of Angola will continue to take action that at least ensures maintenance of
the macroeconomic skills owed to EMCB, and to accept the challenge of continuing basic
investment in the country's human resources, in order to ensure the permanent and
progressive improvement of its economic performance.
In order to ensure the sustainability of investments made so far in building
expenditures and equipment for the benefit of human resources training facilities (in
particular, the Ministry of Planning training space), their maintenance, physical upkeep,
and other recurrent costs will be financed from the general government budget. However,
their actual utilization will be the responsibility of the Economic Policy Training
Program, financed by EDI and bilateral donors. In addition, this program is a guarantee
that the Government is committed to continue training actions that will permanently
increase its macroeconomic management capabilities.
The output generated by EMCB in the field of statistics - e.g. external trade
statistics, consumer price index, education statistics, household living standards study



- 30 -                        Appendix B
Page 2 of 3
(i.e., the. poverty survey) and fisheries sector statistics - will continue to be produced
with a combination of government budget allocations and funding from United Nations
organizations and bilateral donors. In addition, a new and more informed view of the
importance of statistics in the management of the country is gradually taking hold.
In the case of the consumer price index, steps are being taken to update the
current weighting structure, which do not reflect anymore the relative weight of
expenditures in household incomes accurately. On the statistics side, surveys will begin
very shortly to provide a basis for an input-output table. The later when finalized will
give the Government a valuable sectoral planning tool which, in combination with the
present overall planning instrument, will allow development programming.
When at the beginning of the economic transformation process, the sector
planning entities suddenly experienced an unexpected heavy loss of professional staff and
there was an adverse impact on the generation of basic statistics. The quality of the
statistics produced was seriously jeopardized, and, consequently, that of the national
accounts also. The situation was exacerbated by the fact that the sector ministries lack
the resources to invest in building up their own basic statistical capabilities.
This gap will very shortly be closed, however, since the surveys to be conducted
as part of the development of the input-output matrix will create the minimum conditions
needed for the re-introduction of routine procedures for collection and processing of data
on the real economy.
The National Statistics Institute has been the vehicle for implementation of a
policy of standardizing statistical publications. The required framework for this will
materialize finally with the promulgation of legislation governing the national statistical
system. It is important to note here that the statistical publications of both the Ministry of
Planning (acting through the Statistics Institute) and the National Bank of Angola have
been gaining in credibility, thanks to the regularity with which they appear and the
quality of their statistics. This is confirmed by the extent to which not only government
decisions but also studies by national and international institutions are now being based
on them.
The Government is willing to upgrade the technical and professional capabilities
at all levels of the statistics sector, through in-service training in Angola and training
courses abroad. The aim is to introduce major improvements in the collection,
processing, and dissemination of statistical information.
In the legal area, seminars and training activities have been organized in Angola
and abroad in preparation for the institutionalization of a Court of Audit, which, however,
cannot commence operations until renovation of the premises that will serve as its
headquarters has been completed. As The National Institute of Legal Studies (INES) is
in operation, will provide further training for prosecutors, judges, court clerks, notaries,
and court officials to considerably improve in the performance of courts, notaries, and
offices of court clerks.



- 31 -                       Appendix B
Page 3 of 3
As far as liberalization of agricultural policy is concerned, studies carried out on
rural infrastructure, agricultural survey, forests and the environment, are extremely
valuable tools that will enable the Government to reach decisions towards liberalization
on the sector. In the mean time, despite the constraints imposed by the war, the
Government has been able to take some steps toward liberalization of this sector,
including the area of prices, de-monopolization, and an ample process of privatization.
Regarding liberalization of policy on prices and wages, trade, and privatizations,
the Government is firmly committed to implementing the recommendations stemming
from the studies made as part of the EMCB Project. Accordingly, in keeping with the
economic policy to be introduced this year, greater emphasis will be placed on
liberalizing commercial activity. In accordance with the Economic Stabilization and
Recovery Program, this will be achieved by streamlining the issue of trade licenses,
abolishing the Import Registry Bulletin, and allowing external trade with operators' own
resources. In addition to confirming the incorporation of the study recommendations and
the likelihood that they will continue to bear fruit, these measures are not only
incontrovertible evidence of the economic management capabilities of Angolan
specialists but also a clear and unambiguous guarantee of the sustainability of the actions
undertaken as part of the EMCB Project.



- 32 -                         Appendix C
Page I of I
EMCB Project Outputs
Components
Outputs               Human  Statistics   Legal    Public   Liberal.  Instit.   Project    Total
Resource          Assistance Resource  Policies  Support lmpl. Unit
Devel.                     Manag.
Number trained            639        5       104        0        8       116        4       872,
Number in seminars        183        6      349         0        9        11        4       558
and conferences
Courses provided           55        2         5        0        0         2                 64j
Seminars given             23        4         4        1        2         9        0        431
Courses abroad             13        11       14        1                  8        3        47,
Trips abroad                5                  2        1         3        0        0        11
Institutions created        0        0         1        0        0         0        0         1
Studies completed           6         8        9       14        8        33        0        78
Computers purchased        27       60         2       18       21        68       22       218
Cars purchased              4        17        0        4        6        14       11        56
Other equipment       125,877  284,260   15,564   74,198  127,115  388,493  152,256 1,015,507
purchased ($)
Consumables            22,194   25,680    2,394   10,686   16,686   13,422   21,268   112,330
purchased ($)
Training rooms installed    1         1                                    3                  5



