Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2274 ANG
(Economic Management Capacity Building Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 26, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2274 ANG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Page  2
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)    "GARE" means Gabinete de Redimensionamento Empresarial, the Enterprise 
Restructuring Unit of the Borrower;
      (b)   "INE" means Instituto Nacional de Estatistica, the National Statistical 
Institute of the Borrower;
      (c)   "LWG" means the Legal Working Group established by the Ministry of 
Planning (Despacho No. 24/91) dated April 5, 1991, to carry out Part C of the Project;
      (d)   "Human Resource Development Coordinating Committee" means the coordinating 
committee established by the Ministry of Planning (Despacho No. 25/91) dated April 5, 
1991, to carry out Part A of the Project;
      (e)   "Project Coordinating Committee" means the inter-agency committee 
established by the Ministry of Planning (Despacho No. 27/91) dated April 5, 1991 to 
oversee Project implementation as set forth in Part B.1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
      (f)   "Project Preparation Facility" means the project preparation facility 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters 
dated March 25, 1991, and May 1, 1991; 
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
      (h)   "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1, 
to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Banco Nacional de Angola on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2001 and ending May 1, 2026. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2011 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, managerial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
Page  4
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association shall: (a) not later than March 1 
of each year, until the completion of the Project, conduct an annual Project 
implementation review to:
            (i)
monitor progress in carrying out the Project;
 
           (ii)
exchange information among staff of the ministries and entities 
responsible for Project implementation as set forth in Part B of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and propose coordinated solutions to 
any current implementation issues;
          (iii)
review, update and approve annual action programs and cost 
estimates; and
          (iv)
discuss and coordinate all other related technical assistance 
activities sponsored by other donor agencies. Representatives of 
such agencies shall be invited to participate in these 
discussions.
      (b)   Not later than four weeks prior to such review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association for its review and comments a report in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including: 
            (i)
an evaluation of progress achieved by the Borrower in general, and 
by each ministry or entity responsible for implementation in 
particular, in carrying out the Project in accordance with the 
respective annual action program;
           (ii)
a draft action program to be carried out during the following 
year, including: (A) a statement of objectives to be achieved and 
of activities to be undertaken; (B) detailed training and 
technical assistance plans; (C) a financing plan indicating other 
sources of financing for each activity and identifying specific 
donor agencies invited to participate in the review; and (D) a 
procurement program detailing goods and services to be procured 
under the Project;
      (c)   not later than, March 1, 1994, conduct a mid-term Project review; and
      (d)   promptly after completing the reviews, carry out those recommendations 
arising out of said reviews as agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
      Section 3.04. In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall promptly after the Effective Date, appoint qualified local counterpart 
staff to work closely with the consultants to be employed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, continue 
to maintain:
      (a)   the Project Coordinating Committee;
      (b)   the Component Coordinating Committees;
      (c)   the Project Component Coordinators;
      (d)   the Project Unit;
      (e)   the Project Coordinator; and
      (f)   the Project Administrator,
with the functions and responsibilities as set forth in Part B of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and staffing with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  5
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
           (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Borrower will be able to perform 
any of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Project Administrator has been selected and employed with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association and with the functions 
and responsibilities described in Part B.5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
Page  6
      (b)   that the Project Unit has been legally established with the functions, 
responsibilities and staffing described in Part B.6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that this Agreement has been 
duly ratified by the Borrower's Council of Ministers and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning
            Largo do Palacio
            P.O. Box 1205
            Luanda
            People's Republic of Angola
            Cable address:                
Telex:
 
                  Ministerio do Plano,          998 3395 AN/MINPLAN
                  Luanda                        998 3082 AN/MINPLAN
                                                998 3161 AN/DINATEL
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                
Telex:
 
                  INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
                  By /s/ Apolinario Correia
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Page  7
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'              5,950,000        100%
     services
(2)  Studies                   3,250,000        100%
(3)  Training                  1,050,000        100%
(4)  Books and                   190,000        100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures
(5)  (a) Office equipment        450,000        100% of foreign
         and supplies;                          expenditures
     (b) vehicles; and           375,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
     (c) incremental             675,000        100% of foreign
         operating costs.                       expenditures
(6)  Goods and ser-            1,750,000        100% of foreign
     vices under                                expenditures
     Part B of the
     Project
(7)  Goods and ser-            1,050,000        100% of foreign
     vices under                                expenditures
     Part G of the
     Project
(8)  Refunding of                560,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-
suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(9)  Unallocated               1,800,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                17,100,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "training" means cost of fellowships, seminars, workshops, 
courses, study tours, internships and other costs related to activities to be 
undertaken as part of training programs financed under the Project; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means cost of: (i) operation, 
maintenance and rental of equipment, vehicles and buildings used in the execution of 
the Project, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and (ii) Project 
management, including the operation of the Project Unit, as set forth in Part B.6 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  8
made in respect of: 
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
      (b)   expenditures under Category (6), unless the Borrower has furnished the 
Association documentary evidence satisfactory to it of the following:
            (i)
a draft National Statistics Plan has been prepared by the Borrower 
and has been submitted to the Association for its review and 
comments; and
    (ii)
that promptly thereafter the final National Statistics Plan has 
been duly approved by the Borrower's competent authorities, taking 
into consideration the recommendations provided by the 
Association; and
      (c)   expenditures under Category (7), unless the Association has received, for 
its review and approval, a proposal to carry out pre-investment studies or programs 
referred to in Part G of the Project, including a detailed budget and an 
implementation time-table.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are to:
      (a)   strengthen the Borrower's capabilities to formulate and implement sound 
economic strategies and policies and investment projects by improving specific 
economic management functions;
      (b)   provide assistance and training to strengthen economic, accounting and 
project analysis and management skills; and 
      (c)   review and streamline the legal framework for economic reforms.
      The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives.
Part A:     Human Resources Development
      Design and implementation of a training program for national participants to 
improve skills in:
1.    macro economic analysis and management;
2.    project analysis and management;
3.    general administration;
4.    commercial accounting and financial management; and
5.    procurement.
Part B:     Statistics
1.    Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities for the collection, analysis and 
dissemination of data essential for the formulation, implementation and monitoring of 
economic policies and development programs.
2.    Design and implementation of the National Statistics Plan. 
Part C:     Legal Assistance
1.    Provision of assistance for the development of a legal and regulatory framework, 
including the revision, streamlining and drafting of economic, commercial, financial, 
administrative and procurement legislation.
2.    Strengthening of the capabilities of the Borrower's legal services responsible 
for the revision, updating, drafting and implementation of the new legal and 
regulatory framework, including provision of practical and graduate legal training.
Page  9
3.    Development of appropriate procedures and mechanisms to disseminate the new 
legal and regulatory framework, including the design, establishment and maintenance of 
a legal data-base and a computerized legal network, and the acquisition of legal 
software and materials.
Part D:     Public Resource Management
1.    Strengthening of the Borrower's public expenditure management capabilities.
2.    Strengthening of the Borrower's public investment planning, programming and 
monitoring capabilities.
3.    Improvement of the Borrower's financial, control and monitoring capabilities of 
the productive, commercial and financial enterprises wholly or partially owned by the 
State.
Part E:     Liberalization Policies
1.    Trade Policy: strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities to: (a) design, 
implement and monitor trade liberalization; and (b) carry out a rural markets and 
agricultural trade study.
2.    Incomes Policies: strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities to design, 
implement and monitor a price and wage reform package, including detailed 
implementation plans and assessment of the economic and social impact of proposed 
reforms.
3.    Industrial Sector: (a) preparation of an action program to restore the 
competitiveness of the industrial sector through restructuring, privatization and 
liquidation of enterprises, including the carrying out of a pilot program; (b) design 
of a framework to attract domestic and foreign private investment and donor support; 
and (c) implementation of a training program to strengthen local entrepreneurial and 
managerial capabilities.
4.    Agricultural Sector: strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities to: (a) 
analyze sector and policy issues and their linkages with macro-economic policies; (b) 
within the framework of its overall privatization policies, design, implement and 
monitor an action program for the privatization of agricultural production 
enterprises, including the basis for the revision and streamlining of land tenure 
legal framework; and (c) carry out: (i) a rural survey; (ii) a study to develop forest 
and wildlife management strategies; (iii) subsectoral and pre-investment studies; and 
(iv) training and pilot operations related to agricultural extension.
Part F:     Project Administration
1.    Provision of assistance to strengthen planning, institutional coordination, and 
managerial capabilities related to Project implementation.
2.    Training of staff responsible for Project management in organizational and 
managerial techniques.
3.    Strengthening of the Project Unit and other agencies responsible for Project 
implementation.
Part G:     Other Advisory Assistance
      Provision of assistance and carrying out of pre-investment studies and other 
capacity building programs to be jointly identified between the Borrower and the 
Association.
*        *        *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Page  10
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent to $100,000 or more, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $60,000.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local competitive bidding:
      Vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$10,000 or more, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.    Shopping:
      Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $50,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Direct Contracting:
      Books and reference materials under Parts A and C of the Project may be procured 
under direct contracting in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  11
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Page  12
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:     Project Implementation
      The following ministries and entities of the Borrower shall be responsible for 
Project implementation as follows:
1.    Part A of the Project shall be carried out by the Human Resource Development 
Coordinating Committee.
2.    Part B of the Project by INE.
3.    Part C of the Project shall be carried out by the Legal Working Group.
4.    (a)   Parts D.1 and D.3 of the Project shall be carried out by the Ministry of 
Finance.
      (b)   Part D.2 of the Project shall be carried out by the Ministry of Planning.
5.    Part E of the Project shall be carried out as follows:
      (a)   Part E.1, by the Ministry of Commerce;
      (b)   Part E.2, by the Ministry of Finance;
      (c)   Part E.3, by GARE; and
      (d)   Part E.4, by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Part B:     Project Management
1.    Project Coordinating Committee:
      (a)    A project coordination committee (PCC) shall be established by the 
Minister of Planning with the following members: (i) the Project Coordinator 
(chairperson); (ii) all component coordinators; and (iii) the Project Administrator.
      (b)   The PCC will provide overall coordination and guidance to the component 
coordination committees, reviewing their respective work programs and ensuring 
effective component execution.
2.   Component Coordination Committees
Page  13
      (a)   The following component coordination committees shall be established:
            (i)   Human Resource Development;
           (ii)   Legal Working Group;
          (iii)   Public Resource Management;
           (iv)   Statistics;
            (v)   Liberalization Policies; and
           (vi)   Agriculture and Industrial Policies.
      (b)   The Component Coordination Committees shall be responsible, inter alia, 
for the following:
            (i)
reviewing their respective annual action programs;
 
           (ii)
advising the Component Coordinators on matters pertaining to 
component execution; and
          (iii)
reviewing progress and annual component reports.
 
3.    Component Coordinators
      (a)   The Borrower shall appoint Component Coordinators, with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association, as the responsible officers for overall 
management of the respective
components. 
      (b)   The Component Coordinators shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
           (i)
ensuring that execution of activites is consistent with Project 
objectives set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
            (ii)
ensuring preparation of annual action programs to be carried out 
under the Project;
           (iii)
carrying out procurement of goods and services in coordination 
with the Project Unit, as required by the Project;
            (iv)
providing information to the Project Coordinator for the 
preparation of quarterly progress reports, as agreed with the 
Association;
            (v)
preparing and carrying out annual and mid-term Project 
implementation reviews; and
            (vi)
ensuring, through annual meetings, coordination of all other 
related technical assistance sponsored by other donor agencies.
4.    Project Coordinator
      The Minister of Planning shall appoint a Project Coordinator who shall be 
responsible for overall Project implementation.  The Project Coordinator shall be the 
chairperson of the Project Coordinating Committee and serve as the focal point in 
communicating and agreeing with the Association on matters concerning the Project and 
will coordinate the work of the Component Coordinators.
5.    Project Administrator (PA)
      (a)   In discharging his/her responsibilities, the Project Coordinator shall be 
assisted by a Project Administrator with qualifications and extensive managerial 
experience acceptable to the Association, who shall be employed on a full-time basis 
and report directly to the Project Coordinator. The PA shall be the Secretary to the 
Project Coordination Committee.
      (b)   The PA shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(i)
assisting the Project and Component Coordinators in the 
Page  14
coordination of all Project activities within the government 
entities responsible for Project implementation; and liasing with 
the Association in all matters related to Project Administration;
(ii)
providing technical and administrative assistance to the Project 
and Component Coordinators in the final preparation of all Project 
documentation;
(iii)
providing assistance to all Component Coordinators in discharging 
their responsibilities under the Project; and participating as a 
member of the respective Component Coordination Committees;
(iv)
preparing and reviewing unified progress reports to be considered 
by the Project Coordinator and discussed at the annual Project 
review, including an assessment of each Project component and an 
identification of any current issues which may interfere with 
timely Project implementation;
(v)
participating in the selection of consultants to be employed under 
the Project; and providing them with logistical assistance, 
including housing and transportation;
(vi)
providing assistance to the Project Coordinator in ensuring the 
effective compliance with all contractual obligations entered into 
by the Borrower for the procurement of goods and services under 
the Project;
(vii)
keeping financial accounts for all Project components, and 
ensuring appropriate compilation and maintenance of Project 
documentation and files;
(viii)reviewing, in close coordination with the Project Coordinator, 
procurement arrangements for Project implementation, including 
packaging procurement lots for consultants' services and 
equipment, computer systems, hardware and software, printed 
material and office supplies to be financed under the Project;
(ix)
assisting in directing and coordinating training programs for 
staff responsible for Project management; and
(x)
assisting in the review of bids for international and local 
competitive bidding and international or local shopping, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
6.    Project Unit
      (a)   The Project Unit (PU), established by the Ministry of Planning as an 
autonomous entity, shall be responsible for providing overall administrative support 
for Project activities.
      (b)   The PU shall be headed by a Project Administrator. The Project 
Administrator shall assist the Project Coordinator in discharging his/her 
responsibilities described in Part B.5 of this Schedule and shall work under the 
supervision of said Project Coordinator.
      (c)   PU shall include, in addition to the Project Administrator, the following 
full-time staff:
            (i)   an administrative assistant;
           (ii)   a secretary/typist;
          (iii)   procurement/legal adviser (part-time);
           (iv)   an accountant;
            (v)   a messenger; and
           (vi)   a driver.
      (d)   The functions of the PU shall include, inter alia, the following: (i) 
assisting the Project Administrator by handling the administrative aspects of: (A) 
Page  15
recruitment and employment of resident experts and short-term consultants; (B) 
procurement of goods and services estimated to cost the equivalent of ten thousand 
dollars ($10,000) or more; (C) preparation and presentation of withdrawal applications 
for the respective Project components; (D) following-up on annual work programs for 
the respective Project components; and (E) preparing the Project financial accounts 
and contracting of Project audits.
