Dame of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIIAL USE ONLY
C F  />& C  C)-
Report No. P-4297-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDRs 32.1 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 30, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee
US$1.00         =  SL Rs 27.4
SL Re 1.00      =  US$0.0365
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC     -   Average Incremental Cost
CAB     -   Comnon Amenities Board
Decade  -   International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade
FRP     -   Financial Recovery Program
MIP     -   Macro-Investment Plan
UDA     -   Urban Development Authority
WDB     -   National Water Supply and Drainage Board
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REBARBILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary:       National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB)
Amount:            SDRs 32.1 million (US$37.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Relendina Terms:  The Government would relend US$21.4 million equivalent of
the credit proceeds to WDB at a 12 percent interest rate,
repayable over 24 years including 2 years of grace, while
US$15.3 million equivalent would be made available as
equity. The Goverment would bear the foreign exchange risk.
(The Government would retain US$0.3 million equivalent to
implement the lov-cost sanitation component.)
Project
Description:    The project seeks to improve public health and sector manage-
ment by rehabilitating and augmenting vater supply, sewerage,
sanitation and drainage systems in the Amparai, Anuradhapura
and Colombo areas, vhile strengthening WDB's financial
management and enhancing its operations and maintenance
capacity. The primary benefits expected to accrue to the
areas' populations, about 40 percent of whom fall below the
poverty threshold, are improved services, decreased vater-
borne diseases, savings in health care costs, improved
worker productivity, and a favorable environmental impact.
The project faces no special risks, although achieving the
objectives would depend upon a growing capacity for sound
financial management by WDB.
This document has a restncted dtribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
of their ofl duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclaoed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii-
Estimated Costs: a/
Local     Foreign    Total
-----(Us$ Million)- -
Civil Works                       13.5          2.4       15.9
Materials and Equipment            8.6         11.8       20.4
Engineering Design, Training
and Technical Assistance         3.0          4.0        7.0
Base Costs                      25.1         18.2       43.3
Physical Contingencies             2.8          2.4        5.2
Price Contingencies                9.4          6.9       16.3
Subtotal of Contingencies       12.2          9.3       21.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               37.3         27.5       64.8
===e- =:=             S
Financins Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
-----(US$ Million)      - -
IDA                                9.5         27.5       37.0
GOSL                              27.8            -       27.8
Total                           37.3         27.5       64.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Group
Fiscal Year    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
------------------ -(us$ Million) ----…
Annual         1.0    3.6       6.5    7.4    6.5    5.0    3.7    2.4    0.9
Cumulative      1.0    4.6    11.1   18.5   25.0   30.0   33.7   36.1   37.0
Rate of
Return:            16 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 6061-CE, dated April 30, 1986
M!lap:             IBRD 19519
a/ Includes taxes and duties of US$7.8 mil-lion equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
SDRs 32.1 million (US$37.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a water supply and sanitation rehabilitation project. The Government
would relend US$21.4 million equivalent of the credit proceeds to the
National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) at an interest rate of 12
percent per annum, repayable over 24 years including 2 years of grace, while
making US$15.3 million equivalent available as equity. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka:  Recent Economic
Developments and Policies for Growth" (Report No. 5628-CE, dated May 14,
1985) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 28, 1985. Country
data are provided in Annex I.
3.      After almost ten years of low growth at 2.9 percent per annum, Sri
Lanka, in 1977, initiated a new development strategy. It entailed a package
of policy measures to liberalize the economy and allow a greater role for the
private sector. These policies, supported by the IMF, were designed to: (a)
reduce government intervention in commodity markets; (b) reduce government
consumption subsidies and restore producer incentives and public savings; and
(c) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment through tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone,
and the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two important
characteristics of this policy reform package were: (a) periodic increases
in the domestic support price for paddy (to bring it into line with world
prices) that spurred a highly positive response from paddy producers; and
(b) a decline in the cost of selected subsidies and transfers from about 10
percent of CDP in 1977 to about 3 percent by 1981.
1/ This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's
Report for the Second Industrial Development Project (Report No. 4284-CE),
which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 8, 1986.



-2-
4.      At the same time, the Government began to implement an ambitious
public investment program centered on three major initiatives:
(a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, the
largest multipurpose river basin development program ever undertaken in Sri
Lanka; (b) establishment of a 200-square mile free trade zone to attract
foreign investors located north of Colombo near the international airport;
and (c) institution of a massive housing and urban renewal program focusing
mainly on the Colombo metropolitan region, including the construction of a
new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. As the public investment
program gained momentum, its share in GDP jumped from 6 percent in 1977 to an
average of 13 percent in 1978/79 and a peak of 19 percent in 1980. The
public investment was financed in part by domestic resources (generated, in
turn, by a reduction in subsidies and transfers) and, in part, by high levels
of foreign aid.
5.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increased level
of investment was an impressive jump in the GDP growth rate during 1977-80
to an annual average of 6.8 percent. The growth rate subsequently declined
to a more sustainable 5.3 percent in 1980-83 and 5 percent in 1984-85.
Underlying the increased growth of output was the expansion of paddy
production, garment exports, construction, and tourist services. The growth
rate of paddy produccion averaged 5.7 percent a year during 1978-85 with the
result that rice imports declined sharply and averaged only 10 percent of
total rice consumption during that period compared to 33 percent during
1970-77. Manufactured garment exports increased from US$12 million in 1977
to an estimated US$300 million in 1985 and now account for 80 percent of
non-petroleum manufactured exports. Tourist arrivals increased from 150,000
in 1977 to 400,000 in 1982. However, due to ethnic disturbances, arrivals
have declined since to 320,000 in 1983/84 and an estimated 260,000 in 1985.
6.      The rapid expansion in aggregate demand, led by high levels of public
investment, resulted in serious financial imbalances affecting the budget and
the balance of payments. The massive public investment initiated in 1977 led
to increases in budgetary spending from 23 percent of GDP in 1977, to a
record 43 percent in 1980. These high levels of spending, however, were not
accompanied by corresponding increases in fiscal revenues. When the economy
began to show serious signs of "overheating" in the early 1980s, the
Government squeezed current spending by reducing subsidies and by placing
limits on already inadequate public sector salaries and operation and main-
tenance expenditures. But with severe limits on the extent to which these
expenditures could be curtailed, the Government was impelled to borrow
heavily to finance the deficits which varied between 10 and 17 percent of GDP
during 1981-85. During that period, 45 percent of the deficits were financed
by foreign aid, 10 percent were financed by foreign commercial borrowings and
45 percent by domestic borrowing.
7.      The high levels of of investment also spilled over into the balance
of payments. Between 1977 and 1980, import volumes grew at an average annual



-3-
rate of 19 percent, while imported investment goods increased from US$83
million to US$493 million, and intermediate goods and petroleum imports
tripled in current prices. As a result of this fairly broad-based expansion,
merchandise imports as a share of GDP increased from 23 percent in 1977 to 51
percent in 1980. Export volumes, however, expanded at a much lower rate (an
average annual growth rate of 5 percent between 1977 and 1980) as the decline
in tree crop export volumes offset the strong growth in garment exports from
firms established in the Investment Promotion Zone. Consequently, merchan-
dise exports as a share of GDP increased from 21 percent in 1977 to only 26
percent in 1980. These diverse trends in the volume of trade were accom-
panied by a 26 percent deterioration in the terms of trade over the same
period. Rapid growth in tourism receipts and private remittances from abroad
failed to offset this deterioration in the trade account, and the current
account balance deteriorated from a surplus equivalent to 2.4 percent of GDP
in 1977 to a record deficit equivalent to 19.8 percent of GDP in 1980.
Deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than offset by increased net aid
disbursements, and Sri Lanka continued to add to international reserves.
But, in 1980 the situation changed, when the current account deficit rose to
$800 million. It was financed by concessional flows, use of reserves (which
declined by $220 million) and recourse to commercial borrowing.
8.      Realizing that a continuation of the 1980 trends would result in
serious financial instability, the Government initiated an adjustment program
in 1981. The measures agreed upon initially, in consultation with the IMF,
included tighter overall monetacy policy, a substantial reduction in govern-
ment spending, and a gradual realignment of the exchange rate. The economy
began to respond positively by the end of 1981 (when the current account
deficit in the balance of payments declined to 13.7 percent of GDP and the
budgetary deficit to 15.5 percent), but in 1982 - a year in which there were
presidential elections and a referendum to extend the life of Parliament -
the political resolve to continue to apply the needed policy mix weakened.
As a result, both the external and internal deficits increased in 1982 (to
15.3 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively) and the GDP growth rate declined
to 5.1 percent. Although policy measures did contribute to the decline in
the current account deficit of the balance of payments in 1983 and 1984 (12.4
percent of GDP in 1983 and 3.7 percent in 1984), the primary factor was the
improvement in the terms of trade as a result of higher tea prices. With the
subsequent decline in the price of tea, the terms of trade deteriorated in
1985 and the current account deficit of the balance of payments increased to
8 percent of GDP. Furthermore, on account of lower receipts from taxes on
exported tea and higher defense expenditures, the overall budget deficit
increased from 10 percent of GDP in 1984 to 11 percent in 1985. Because the
price of tea declined in the second half of 1985, however, its effects on the
budget will mostly be felt in 1986 when the fiscal deficit may turn out to be
much higher.
9.      Achieving a more viable internal and external financial position are
now two prime policy objectives for Sri Lanka. To improve the external
position, one of the foremost requirements of government policy will be to



-4-
restructure the economy towards exports rather than producing for the very
limited domestic market. With the er-,vtion of garments, for which Sri Lanka
has a particularly strong comparative advantage, exports have performed
poorly. A major focal point for improving export performance is the tree
crop sector, which, as a result of more than a decade of neglect, has
experienced a stagnant level of production. This trend must be reversed.
To promote export activities, a more neutral incentive framework is needed,
including a foreign exchange policy that would permit the full diversity of
Sri Lanka's comparative advantage to develop.
10.     The Government has recently indicated its determination to pursue
reforms in this sector. In 1985, it reduced the overall tax burden on tree
crops. This reduction, in combination with the management/incentive reform
package for state-owned plantations implemented in early 1984, has improved
incentives for producers throughout this traditionally overtaxed subsector.
The Government has also introduced tariff changes, based on recommendations
made in the final report of the Presidential Tariff Commission on trade
taxes, aimed at reducing the overall tariff level and the variance of effec-
tive protection among sectors.
11.     The comparatively high levels of social welfare expenditures which
the population has long enjoyed and which cannot easily be reduced, together
with sharply increased defense expenditures, means that the Government must
renew its efforts to improve domestic resource mobilization - especially in
the public sector - to pay for these outlays. Improving the domestic finan-
cial situation will require broadening the tax base thus increasing tax
revenues and reducing unproductive government expenditures. A focal point of
these measures will have to be the public sector enterprises, which account
for 40 percent of the value added in the non-petroleum manufacturing sector,
but are a heavy burden on the budget because of high protection from external
competition, administered prices for their products, their monopolistic or
quasi-monopolistic position, and the inefficient use of resources. They will
have to improve their management and reduce the support they obtain from the
budget.
12.     Throughout the entire 1978-85 period, the  response of the interna-
tional aid community to the Government's development efforts has been
enthusiastic. Project aid was stepped up, particularly for the Accelerated
Mahaweli Program. The overall level of aid commitments per year increased
from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$800 million in 1981, equivalent to
US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly so that the aid
pipeline rapidly expanded to around US$1.63 billion by the end of 1981.
Because implementation and domestic financial constraints required cuts in
public capital spending after 1981, aid commitments declined to US$500 mil-
lion in 1982, US$350 million in 1983, and US$460 million in 1984, haLting
further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have increased
steadily, from US$200 million in 1977 to US$550 million in 1984. Continued
high levels of aid will depend upon donors' willingness to finance a sizable
portion of local costs, provide supplementary financing for ongoing projects,



where needed, and to increase non-project aid. Local cost financing in
support of Sri Lanka's resource mobilization efforts will not only provide
valuable relief from budgetary pressures, but will also supplement foreign
exchange resources needed to support the balance of payments.
13.     At the end of 1985, the external public debt outstanding and dis-
bursed stood at an estimated US$2.7 billion, about 40 percent of GDP.
Although over 70 percent of this debt is on concessional terms, the increased
commercial financing resorted to in 1981 and 1982 contributed to the increase
in the debt service payments (excluding IMF charges and repurchases) between
1982 and 1985, at which time the debt service ratio had risen to 15 percent.
Assuming that the Government's efforts to contain the budget deficit and to
implement policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient import
substitution activities are successful, the current account deficit in the
balance of payments should decline to approximately 7 percent of GDP toward
the end of the decade, and the debt service ratio, after temporarily rising
to almost 19 percent because of existing debt repayment commitments, should
drop to 15 percent in 1990. Nonetheless, the Government will need to monitor
carefully the level and terms of external borrowing to ensure that the
country maintains a satisfactory external payments position.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the World
Bank has approved 12 Loans totaling US$183.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 38 credits totaling US$753.2 million (net of cancellations) in support of
47 projects. About 53 percent of World Bank assistance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 17 percent
for power, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 20 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry
training, and telecommunications. Eight loans and 16 credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of World Bank Group opera-
tions as of March 31, 1986.
15.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$18.69 million equivalent in loans as of March 31,
1986. Investments have been made so far in two textiles industries, one
polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing company, one hotel, and two
IFC lines of credit, one of which has been extended to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
16.     A central element of the World Bank Group's current strategy in
Sri Lanka is the achievement of a more sustainable balance-of-payments rosi-
tion in the medium term through export promotion and import substitution in
viable economic activities. The Bank Group's macroeconomic and sectoral
analyses of the Sri Lankan economy indicate that achieving and maintaining



-6-
external equilibrium in the context of a growing economy require major policy
changes in several areas: investment priorities should be assessed more
carefully than in the past; the system of economic incentives sh3uld become
more consistent; the role of the public sector in manufacturing activities
should be limited to clearly established priority areas; and cost recovery
should be seen as complementary to, rather than conflicting with, greater
equity in distribution.
17.     Within the above framework, the Bank's lending program has been
concentrating resources on directly productive sectors, such as agriculture
and industry, and in support of energy and transport infrastructure. Within
agriculture, Bank Group strategy had given until recently the highest
priority to the expansion of paddy production and to rehabilitation of the
vital tree crops subsector. Regarding tree crops, the objective has been to
channel resources into an activity in which Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage. While this objective will retain its importance, the probable
attainment of self-sufficiency in rice will allow the lending program to
support in the future programs aimed at expanding the production of other
important agricultural products for local consumption and, possibly, local
processing for exports.
18.     The World Bank has also provided financing for a broad range of
large-, medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the
private sector, through support of industrial development finance
institutions. Future lending in the sector would continue this support,
focusing on firms with export potential. It would also capitalize on the
conclusions of technical assistance financed through past operations to
provide support for improvement in trade and incentive policies, and for
increasing the efficiency of public enterprises.
19.     The Government's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure and
expand the capacity of existing capital stock by high priority new invest-
ments is well placed and necessary in order to support expanded economic
activity, particularly in the private sector. Major elements of the lending
program would be directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy
and at easing transport bottlenecks. The World Bank has provided financing
to a number of power projects for generation, transmission and distribution.
The thrust of future operations would be decided on the basis of a comprehen-
sive assessment of investment needs in all three areas. However, given that
the majority of high yielding sources of energy in Sri Lanka have been util-
ized already, it is envisaged that the future program would accord relative
priority to energy conservation rather than generation, through both required
investments and policy measures. The old and inefficient power distribution
system would be rehabilitated to reduce systrem losses; small but significant
improvements in energy conservation would be undertaken in large energy
consuming industrial/commercial units; and a study is underway to recommend
measures to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, a large con-
sumer of commercial energy in Sri Lanka. Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation and upgrading of the road network,



-7-
institutionalizing proper maintenance methods and improving sectoral planning
of policies and programs.
20.     Institutional capabilities, at both the planning and implementation
levels, have been strained by the recent rapid expansion of public
investment. Continuing emphasis would be placed on project components sup-
porting institution building, human resource development, business and
industrial management, and public administration.
21.     The World Bank's development of a coherent lending program for Sri
Lanka, and its continuous dialogue regarding the specific elements of the
program and policies necessary for increasing the program's effectiveness,
have been accompanied by firm support for a substantial transfer of resources
to Sri Lanka. The main grounds for this support have been the need to offset
the deterioration in the world trade environment; the achievement of a high
and sustained growth rate; and the tightness of the Government's budgetary
situation as increased operational and maintenance requirements make demands
on domestic resources.
22.     The World Bank Group, as of the end of 1984, accounted for 15.2
percent (IBRD, 2.3 percent; IDA, 12.9 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 5.0 percent of debt service on medium- and
long-term debt. The projected World Bank Group's share in total existing
external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase to 18.3 percent (with
IBRD's share declining to 1.9 percent) and its share in debt service will
increase to about 5.4 percent, by the end of 1986.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Sector Background
23.     Sri Lanka's urban population is currently about 3.4 million, or 21.5
percent of the total population of about 16 million. The urban population's
growth rate of 2.5 percent per annum is relatively low by regional
comparisons. Government projections estimate urban population growth of
about 2.4 percent per annum during 1981-91, increasing the urban share to
about 23.2 percent. The growth of urban areas is based on solid social
achievements: birth and death rates are lower in Sri Lanka than in any other
country in its income class; welfare, education and health standards are
relatively high and widely spread over the island. The same solid
performance, however, has not been achieved in providing adequate water
supply and sanitation services, as evidenced in a relatively high incidence
of waterborne diseases.
24.     Existing levels of service vary widely in Sri Lanka and,
consequently, statistical averages may be misleading. Tbe most reliable
data, obtained from the 1981 Housing Census, indicate that 26 percent of the
urban population received piped water through house connections and a further



-8-
23 percent used public taps. The remaining urban population relied on shal-
low wells and other water sources. In rural areas, about 2 percent of the
population had house connections, 4 percent used stand post supplies and the
remainder (representing about 75 percent cf the total population of Sri
Lanka) obtained water from wells and other surface sources. Regarding waste
disposal facilities, of the total 1981 urban population, some 17 percent had
flush toilets, 65 percent had other forms of latrines, and 18 percent had no
service at all. In rural areas, 2 percent had flush toilets, 64 percent had
other forms of latrines, and 34 percent had no service. More recent data
suggest only marginal improvements in service levels in rural areas during
1971-81, while the situation in urban areas may have deteriorated somewhat.
25.     The Government supports the goals set by a 1976 Habitat Conference
and a 1977 United Nations Conference to supply all communities with adequate
water supplies and sanitation services by 1990. However, in 1980, the
planned targets of the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade (Decade) approved by these conferences were revised downward by the
Government -- limiting its objectives to provide adequate water supplies to
100 percent of urban and estates populations and 50 percent of the rural
population by 1990. The remaining 50 percent of the rural population would
be provided with water during 1991-95. The Government also aims to provide
sanitation facilities to 100 percent of the national population by 1990.
During 1980-85, the Government invested approximately Rs 5,600 million
(US$225 milLion) towards capital improvements in the sector, representing
about 5 percent of the total national capital expenditure budget. This is
slightly higher than the percentage allocated to the sector in other South
Asian countries, and confirms the Government's commitment to these targets.
Sector Institutions
26.     The responsibility for development and maintenance of water supply
and sanitation systems rests with various ministries, departments,
corporations, and boards. The key organization is the National Water Supply
and Drainage Board (WDB), which accounts for about 70 percenc of investments
and 90 percent of operations. Other important entities are the urban local
authorities in the urban areas, and the Ministry of Health in the rural
areas. In the estate sector, the State Plantation Corporation and the
Janatha Estates Development Board are the leading institutions.
Sector Development Constraints
27.     In June 1984, the Association, in close collaboration with the
Government and WDB, completed a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study
(Report No. 4190-CE, dated June 15, 1984) which identified sector-development
constraints and outlined a strategy to address them. To provide adequate
levels of water supply and sanitation throughout the country, and to meet the
1980 government-approved targets, would require significant investments
during 1981-1990. The sector study indicates that while levels of capital
investments in the sector have grown significantly in recent years (WDB's



-9-
assets increased from Rs 360 million in 1979, to about Rs 3,900 million in
1983), the sector continues to face inadequate financial, managerial and
human resources for sustained long-term viability, despite considerable
assistance since 1978 from external donors. Furthermore, in the pAst, the
Government sometimes embarked on projects without adequate consideration of
priorities, availability of local funding, ana operation and maintenance
costs. In some instances, projects were overdesigned and supervision of
construction by technical staff was inadequate. The Government and WDB have
recognized these shortcomings in overall sector management and during 1984
and 1985 have made an effort to develop the necessary institutional, finan-
cial and operational framework to ensure viability of future sector
investments.
28.     Specific constraints that still remain to be addressed in formulating
and implementing a future sector development strategy are: (a) inadequate
institutional and operational capacity of WDB; (b) insufficient recurrent
revenues in the sector as a whole, and particularly in WDB, to properly
operate and maintain existing investments and service debt; (c) lack of
capital funds from local and foreign sources for new investments; and
(d) inadequate capacity of the local construction industry. The choice of
appropriate technology and service levels also must be addressed.
Sector Development Objectives and Straty
29.     The objectives which guide the Government's sector investment
strategy include:
(a)  institutional development -- by improving overall sector management
practices through strengthening the policy, management and
operational framework, particularly of WDB;
(b) financial strengthening -- by adopting and implementing realistic
sectoral financial and commercial management practices
and appropriate capital financing plans and pricing policies; and
(c) increased operating efficiency -- by directing investments towards
rehabilitation of existing plant and equipment, increasing
utilization of existing systems capacity, improving operations
and maintenance and introducing cost control measures.
30.     The Government's Public Investment Program for 1985-89 indicates an
average annual capital budget of Rs 1,200 million (US$44 million at present
exchange rates) for investments in the sector, representing about 4.5 percent
of the Government's total annual capital budget.  The backlog of capital
works and additional investments required to satisfy increasing demand and
the service coverage targets justify both past and proposed sector investment
levels. In February 1985, the Government stated its overall sector invest-
ment priorities in a ten-year (1986-95) Macro-Investment Plan (MIP), reflect-
ing the above development objectives. The total size of the MIP is currently



-10-
estimated at Rs 8,560 million (US$312 million at present exchange rates).
The annual investments are based on commitments on existing schemes and
estimates on future priority schemes. Annual investments in the early years
range between Rs 1,000-1,200 million, gradually falling to about Rs 400
million in the outer years (1994-1995), for which specific investment
priorities are yet to be fully identified. The MIP would be updated annually
to incorporate additional investment priorities when these are more clearly
defined.
31.     The MIP covers ongoing and future sector expenditures for water
supply and sanitation in both urban and rural areas, and in other special
areas such the estates. WDB would implement about 70 percent of the MIP
(Rs 6,000 million, or US$220 million), and the remainder would be implemented
by other sector agencies. WDB's investments would include about Rs 1,750
million (US$64 million) for rural water supply and sanitation and about
Rs 4,250 million (US$155 million) for urban water supply, sewerage, drainage,
sanitation and technical assistance. Rural water supply and sanitation
investments have been financed traditionally by bilateral donor agencies.
The Government and WDB currently do not have a clearly defined long-term
investment strategy for the rural subsector and, therefore, the corresponding
cost estimates should be considered only as tentative. As part of the
proposed project, WDB would undertake a review of the rural water supply and
sanitation subsectors to define the investment strategy and the priorities
more clearly.
32.     The urban water supply and sanitation investment program (Program)
for the ten-year period 1986-95, evolved by WDB, is more reliable. The
Program, which amounts to about US$155 million, reflects WDB's long-term
operational and workforce constraints, and provides investment priorities
irrespective of funding sources. The Program analyzes the propriety and
effectiveness of existing investments and its size has been limited prin-
cipally by the projected availability of recurrent revenues needed to cover
operation, maintenance, and working capital requirements by 1987, and also
to meet debt service or depreciation, whichever is higher, by 1989. Under
the Program, future investments are prioritized as follows:
(a) rehabilitation of existing assets, particularly production facilities and
distribution systems; (b) improvement of operation and maintenance, with
emphasis on training at the operating level; and (c) projects with revenue
generating potential, such as extension of distribution systems to make
better use of existing production facilities.
33.     WDB had been experiencing until recently a large and increasing gap
between income and expenditure levels. Large new capital works coming into
operation, in combination with low tariff levels, have been rapidly adding to
WDB's recurrent costs, both for operation and maintenance and debt service.
Consequently, there has been a rapid increase in operating subsidy require-
ments for WDB from the Government. To arrest this deteriorating trend, the
Government and WDB took a major corrective step in January 1984, when they
introduced a comprehensive Financial Recovery Program (FRP). The positive



-l1-
impact of the FRP has been significant in containing WDB's operating deficits
and in laying the basis for achieving financial viability of the sector
(paras. 38-41).
Performance in Previous IDA Operations
34.     The Association's involvement in the sector began with a US$9.2
million credit for the First Water Supply Project (Cr. 709-CE) in 1977,
followed by a US$30.0 million credit for the Second Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Cr. 1041-CE) in 1980, both executed by WDB. The first project
closed in December 1983, while the second project will close in September
1986, when the major components are expected to be commissioned, except for
two components (ocean outfalls and sewerage system pumping stations) which
are cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for Development, would be completed by
December 31, 1987. Implementation experience has provided the following key
conclusions: (a) to achieve improvements in the sector, project objectives
should be applied beyond specific Association-supported projects and cover
totally the operations of WDB and the sector generally; (b) improvements in
operation and maintenance and institutional development must be concurrent
with the implementation of capital projects; and (c) the financial perfor-
mance of the water supply sector is dependent on the financial health of the
urban local authorities. These lessons have been incorporated into the
approach for formulating strategy and preparing projects.
35.     The first project helped expand existing water supply facilities in
Colombo and construct new water supply facilities in [alutara and
Ambalangoda, two coastal towns south of Colombo. In the second project, the
Colombo water supply system was further expanded and sewage conveyance
facilities were augmented Both projects aimed to strengthen the
institutional, financial &ad operational capacity of the WDB in planning,
designing, implementing and operating facilities as well.
36.     The physical works under the two projects have generally been imple-
mented satisfactorily. WDB has employed local and foreign consultants to
strengthen its institutional, operational and financial capability, par-
ticularly in project appraisal, design and implementation. WDB has generally
benefited from this technical assistance. However, budget constraints, civil
disturbances, and continued limited project management and construction
capacity of WDB have contributed to some implementation delays. Also, due to
the civil disturbances which escalated in 1983, many highly qualified profes-
sionals left the country and the staff of WDB was seriously impaired.
Although this situation has stabilized, the cadre of senior staff of WDB is
still somewhat depleted and would need to be gradually strengthened.
37.     Because of (a) inadequate pricing policies prior to 1984, (b) poor
financial management practices, and (c) weak management capacity of WDB (in
contrast to strong technical/engineering capability), WDB has been unable to
generate revenues sufficient to cover expenses as originally envisaged under



-12-
the second project. The Financial Recovery Program (FRP) (para. 33) is
addressing these issues.
38.     The FRP includes a series of interrelated technical, financial,
operational and administrative measures, with the common objective of improv-
ing WDB's overall financial position. Tariffs were increased by 60 percent
in January 1984. An accelerated program of metering, meter repair and con-
version of unmetered connections in the greater Colanbo area combined with
the implementation of improved computerized billing systens have contributed
to increased billing efficiency. Billing delays have decreased from over a
year in 1983 to about two months at present. High consumption users are now
being billed monthly on a priority basis and are being followed up for
immediate collection measures. WDB is implementing an active customer com-
plaints service program and a consumer awareness program through more fre-
quent and effective use of the media. These efforts are being complemented
by improved arrears management and strict enforcement of disconnection of
defaulters (currently about 150 disconnections are being made per month,
compared to virtually none before 1984). The combined impact of these
measures has significantly improved WDB's collection performance. In 1980,
WDB's cash collection covered only about 2 percent of its total expenditures
and about 10 percent of ita operating costs. By end 1985, these percentages
increased dramatically to about 85 and 140 percent, respectively, as a result
of the accelerated collection of arrears. Monthly cash collections have been
steadily increasing from leas than Rs 2.0 million prior to 1984, to about
Rs 8.0 million in January 1985, and about Rs 20.0 million in August 1985.
By the end of 1985, regular annual operating revenues reached about 85 per-
cent of operating and maintenance expenses compared with about 30 percent in
1984, and 22 percent in 1983. Collections reached about 65 percent of bill-
ings in 1985, compared tc 45 percent in 1984, and 19 percent in 1983.
39.     In November 1985, 1DB introduced a computerized financial managenent
system and an improved accounting system, which now provide detailed revenue
and cost information on a quarterly basis for each of its major individual
schemes (in aggregate totaling about 90 percent of WDB's production
capacity). To effectively utilize these newly introduced management tools,
NDB has also taken measures to strengthen its staffing by appointing a
finance manager, a commercial manager and an assistant commercial manager to
improve its coercial functions and operating systems and procedures.
Various cost control measures, such as leak detection and repair, are also
underway. In addition, WDB's senior maLagement is now formulating an incen-
tive program for its operating staff whereby employees would be rewarded for
improved financial performance of their installations. This progran is
expected to be introduced by the end of 1986.
40.     The cumulative effect of these measures has been significant. WDB's
total operating deficits, which are subsidized by direct and indirect govern-
ment grants, increased fram about Rs 34 million in 1980 to about Rs 140
million in 1983, but they have been contained since then at about Rs 125
million in 1984, and Rs 100 million in 1985.



-13-
41.     The financial situation and operations of 1DB are significantly
affected by the finance and operations of urban local authorities and other
governmental agencies. The urban local authorities, as a group, represent a
significant portion of the bulk water users, and have been constantly in
default of paying monies due to WDB. This is due primarily to their own poor
and deteriorating financial health. By 1984, the outstanding dues from urban
local authorities to WDB totaled about Rs 300 million. In addition, the
responsibility for operating and maintaining local distribution systems,
particularly rural systems, also has been vested with the WDB because of
inadequate financial and institutional capacity of the local authorities.
These factors further burden WDB's financial resources and stretch its
management resources. The Government has prepared a phased program, accept-
able to the Association, to settle all outstanding arrears from the ULAs to
WDB by 1989.  All ULAs are now current in their monthly payments to WDB.  1DB
has signed agreements with the three largest defaulting ULAs for recovery of
arrears and negotiations are underway with the rpmaining ULAs. In an effort
to ease WDB's burden while improving urban local authorities' performance, a
municipal management project is being processed in parallel with this project
and would provide technical assistance for improving the managerial, finan-
cial and service delivery performance of the urban local authorities.
Rationale for Continued IDA Support
42.     The Government and WDB have demonstrated their determination to
improve management, finances and operations of the sector by adopting and
implementing the various policy and procedural reforms described above. In
view of this, continued Association support for the Program would contribute
to the achievement of key sector objectives: improved financial performance,
better operation and maintenance of facilities, and improved project
implementation capability of WDB. Experience gained during implementation of
the first and second projects and the sector work completed recently would
also be contributing to effective involvement on the part of the Association.
During formulation of the Program, for which Association support has been
instrumental, the following have been already achieved: (a) the adoption of
appropriate service levels and options; (b) the design of least-cost systems;
(c) improvements in WDB performance in maintaining distribution systems and
reducing waste; and (d) improved financial performance of WDB.
The Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Investment Program
43.     Before identifying and appraising the proposed project, a ten year
(1986-95) Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Investment Program was
formulated, keeping with the sector objectives and priorities in the MIP
(paras. 29-30). This Program has been subjected to a consistent set of
appraisal criteria, agreed with the Association. WDB-level financing plans
have been based on the nature of specific projects (irrespective of their
funding source), and on overall financial and operational targets for the
WDB's entire operations. The total size of the Program is flexible, subject



-14-
to the availability of Government and donor resources. The Program amounts
to about US$155 million and includes: (a) rehabilitation, extension and
improvement of water service facilities in and around Colombo, (b) extensions
to sewerage system in greater Colombo area, (c) storm water drainage in
Colombo and a study of the maintenance and rehabilitation requirements of the
overall canal and drainage conveyance system, (d) rehabilitation of a number
of water supply schemes in areas other than Colombo, (e) on site sanitation
facilities in Colombo and elsewhere and improved surface drainage and paving
in areas which cannot economically be served by water-borne sewerage systems,
(f) leak detection and waste control programs and improvements in 1DB's
operational efficiency, and (g) technical assistance to support WDB's
institutional development efforts.
44.     To help finance the Program, the Government has sought the support
of external aid agencies. To implement necessary institutional improvements,
the Government has recently receivud funding from the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) for a five-year Technical Assistance
project to assist WDB in strengthening (a) investment planning and
programming, (b) financial and accounting practices, (c) operations and
maintenance, (d) comercial operations, (e) water quality control, and
(f) health education and community development efforts. This project, which
comenced from April 1, 1985 would reinforce GSL's efforts in imyroving
sector management. Given the commonality of interest between the USAID
project and IDA's sector assistance objectives, there has been and continues
to be close liaison between IDA and USAID project staff. The respective IDA
and USAID financed projects would be mutually supportive, complementary and
pursue a common underlying sector development strategy. The Government has
also requested the Asian Development Bank (ADB) for a credit of US$30.0
million equivalent towards financing discrete components of the Program. ADB
would support rehabilitation of water supply systems in five towns outside
the greater Colombo area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.     The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Local
Government, Housing and Construction (MLGHC). The project was appraised in
November 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from March 26-28,
1986. The Sri Lankan delegation was led by Mr. R. Paskaralingam, Secretary,
MLCGC. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Sri Lanka, Water Supply and
Sanitation Rehabilitation Project" (Report No. 6061-CE, dated April 30,
1986), is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A sup-
plementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.



-15-
Project Objectives and Description
46.     The project seeks to contribute to improved public health and sector
management by (a) rehabilitating and extending water supply systems in the
hmparai, Anuradhapura and Colombo areas; (b) rehabilitating sewerage, sanita-
tion and drainage systems in the Colombo area; (c) strengthening WDB's
project and financial management and enhancing its operations and maintenance
capacity; and (d) providing technical assistance, training, and vehicles.
Project Costs and Financing
47.     Estimated project costs (including contingencies) amount to about
US$64.8 million, of which about US$27.5 million (about 42 percent) represents
foreign exchange costs. Taxes and duties total about US$7.8 million (about
12 percent). Costs are based on WDB estimates (adjusted to a December 1985
base) prepared after the completion of the preliminary designs of the major
project components. The following physical contingency factors have been
used: 10 percent for water supply and sewerage equipment and works at
Colombo and Colombo storm drainage extensions, 15 percent for rehabilitation
equipment and works outside Colombo because of the greater degree of uncer-
tainty of these components, and 10 percent for consultancy services. Total
physical contingencies represent about 12 percent of base costs. To provide
for inflation during project implementation the following price escalation
rates have been used: with regard to local expenditures, for 1986 and 1987,
10 percent; for 1988, 9 percent; for 1989, 8 percent; for 1990, 7.6 percent;
and for 1991 and thereafter, 4.5 percent. For foreign expenditures: for
1986, and 1987, 7 percent; for 1988, 7.5 percent; for 1989, 7.7 percent; for
1990, 7.6 percent; and for 1991 and onwards, 4.5 percent.
48.     The proposed credit of US$37.0 million would finance about 65 percent
of the estimated total project costs of US$64.8 million, net of taxes and
duties. The proceeds of the credit would be passed on as follows: (a) about
Rs 8 million (US$0.3 million equivalent) would finance the low-cost sanita-
tion to be implemented through the Common Amenities Board; (b) about Rs 420
million (US$15.3 million equivalent) as equity and Rs 585 million (US$21.4
million equivalent) as loans to WDB. The loans would be for 24 years at 12
percent per annum (compared to 9 percent under the second project), with a
grace period of 2 years for repayment of principal and capitalized interest.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Status of Project Preparation
49.     WDB has completed preliminary engineering designs and cost estimates
for the major components of the investment program. All major contracts have
been identified and detailed designs and tender documents for priority com-
ponents are at an advanced stage of preparation. Additional consultants are
being appointed by April 1986 to support WDB's design teams to expedite the
preparation of tender documents. WDB plans to award contracts for priority
storm drainage works by September 1986 and for other works shortly



-16-
thereafter. Prequalification of firms is already underway for major
contracts.
Project Implementation
50.     The project would be implemented for the most part by WDB.  In 1989,
the peak year for expenditure, the project would represent about 72 percent
of WDB's total investments at a level comparable to that achieved in the
past. 1DB has demonstrated its capability to design and manage the implemen-
tation of major works under the first and second Association-financed
projects.  WDB would be further strengthened under the proposed project
through consultant assistance supporting its design and implementation super-
vision teams. The design of certain components would be undertaken by local
and international consulting consortia. Training for WDB staff would be
provided in Colombo and abroad on systems maintenance and operations and
project management (complementing a similar effort under a USAID institu-
tional improvement project, with which the proposed project would be closely
coordinated).
51.     The low-cost sanitation component (totaling US$0.6 million) would be
executed by the Common Amenities Board (CAB) under the auspices of the Urban
Development Authority (UDA). The CAB is currently in charge of a rolling
program of sanitation rehabilitation and improvements in government-owned and
private sector slums.
Financial Objectives and Principles
52.     Overall financial objectives would apply to WDB's total operations
and the investment program, of which the project is a part. WDB would take
necessary measures so that operational efficiency is achieved and adequate
funds are generated to cover operations and maintenance costs, debt service,
and working capital requirements for its overall operations. To enhance
revenues, these measures would involve continuing progress with the FRP and
would include timely adjustments to tariffs, improved billing and collection,
improved processing of complaints and reductions in the size of bad and
doubtful debts, focussing initially on the larger non-domestic consumers.
WDB would continue to increase water sales through an active consumer connec-
tions program, enhanced by publicity and connections incentive schemes, and
would improve its operating efficiency through various cost control measures.
53.     The full impact of the FRP would not be felt by WDB until after 1986
when it brings WDB fully up-to-date in billings, and enables WDB to criti-
cally analyze its receivables portfolio and write off bad debts. In essence,
1986 would be the year for WDB to "clear up" the books. There has been a
marked reduction in WDB's reliance on government subsidies in recent years.
Government subsidies declined from about Rs 140 million in 1983 to Rs 125
million in 1984 and about Rs 100 million in 1985, representing 136 percent,
84 percent, and 47 percent, respectively, of its operations and maintenance
costs in each of these years. By 1986, WDB would be able to generate ade-



-17-
quate funds to eliminate its operating deficits. However, from 1986 onward,
WDB would continue to receive specific government contributions for covering
operations and maintenance costs for services such as sewerage and rural
water systems, for which it does not have direct revenue generating
authority. During project implementation, WDB would gradually handover
operations and maintenance responsibilities for local water supply and
sewerage distribution systems to respective urban local authorities. WDB
has already commenced a technical assistance and training program to help the
local authorities to take over these functions. Through these measures,
WDB's dependence on government subsidies would be virtually eliminated
towards completion of the project. Although WDB would continue to show a net
"accounting" loss (after depreciation and interest), from 1987 onward it
would begin to generate operating surpluses, contributing increasingly
towards debt service. WDB's8 debt service coverage would improve progres-
sively from 1987 (40 percent) to full coverage (104 percent) by 1989.
Although the immediate emphasis is on eliminating WDB's operating deficits
and to gradually start building surpluses, tariff increases of about 10
percent (over and above inflation rates) would be needed in 1987 and 1988.
Thereafter, annual increases would be needed to at least keep pace with
increasing cost of operations. Under the proposed project, WDB would under-
take a review of its tariffs (to be completed by end 1986) to implement a
more rational tariff structure from 1987.
54.     WDB would not be able to achieve the above financial objectives
immnediately. However, there would be progressive improvement so that the
requirement would be met by 1989. WDB would take all necessary measures to
improve operational efficiency and generate adequate funds to (a) cover
operating expenses and working capital requirements from 1987 onwards, and
(b) also cover debt service or depreciation, whichever is higher, from 1989
onwards.
55.     An exact rate of return assessment for WDB is not feasible, given
the current absence of reliable fixed asset valuations. WDB is in the
process of preparing a fixed assets register and updating its engineering
records, as the basis for preparing a reliable balance sheet by December 31,
1989. However, rough estimates suggest that the financial objectivps for
WDB's total operations would be equivalent to a financial rate of return of
about 3-5 percent on revalued fixed assets by 1989. Analysis of WDB's opera-
tions indicate that the rate of return for its operations in the greater
Colombo area is expected to be around 8-10 percent on revalued net fixed
assets (compared with 8 percent required under the second project). The rate
of return would be correspondingly lower for operations in other parts of Sri
Lanka, reflecting the generally more rural nature of these operations.
Operational Action Plan
56.     WDB, in collaboration with the Association, has developed an opera-
tional action plan that complements its investment program (para. 32) and
interconnects various project activities (primarily technical, financial and



-18-
institutional activities). Progress on the implementation of plan components
would be published in WDB's normal quarterly reports (and submitted to the
Association within six months of the end of each quarter), and the plan would
be reviewed and updated annually in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Procurement
57.     All major equipment and civil works contracts vould be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Association guidelines, with the exception of contracts referred to below.
In evaluating the bids for equipment and materials, local manufacturers
participating in international bidding would be given a preferential margin
equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports, or the existing
rate of customs duty, whichever is lover. A preferential margin of 7-1/2
percent would be allowed for local contractors in evaluating civil works
bids. It is likely that most, if not all, of the contracts for equipment and
materials and major contracts for civil works would be won by foreign con-
tractors or local firms in collaboration with foreign partners in view of
lack of local expertise. The value of civil works and materials and equip-
ment contracts to be awarded under ICB procedures is estimated, respectively,
at the equivalent of US$18.6 million and US$19.1 million, respectively,
totaling US$37.7 million. Technical assistance and consulting services total
about US$8.0 million. Civil works contracts with an aggregate value of
US$6.0 million equivalent, for laying distribution mains and sewers, con-
struction of small pump stations, and provision of improved water service and
sanitation facilities for the urban poor, would be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Association,
since these works are all relatively small ccntracts which could not be
combined into large enough contracts to attract international bidders. The
LCB procedures adopted by WDB have been reviLwed and found generally
satisfactory. Minor contracts for electrical and lifting equipment and
pumping plant, wnich are readily available locally, not exceeding US$100,000
individually, and not more than US$1.4 million in the aggregate would also be
awarded under LCB procedures. Road reinstatement work, totaling about US$1.2
million, would be completed through force account. Prior review by the
Association of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts
would be required for (a) all ICB contracts, and (b) all LCB contracts for
civil works and equipment supply over US$100,000.   Thus, more than 85 per-
cent of the total estimated contract value vould be subject to Association
review. In order to avoid delays, the major contracts would be bid anong
experienced prequalified contractors. Such major contracts include transmis-
sion pipelines, cement mortar lining of existing iains, and treatment
facility rehabilitation.



-19-
PROCUHEKMET MEIROD
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Project Elment               ICB       LCB      Other    NA .J   Cost
Civil Works                     18.6      6.0       1.2  Si            25.8
(6.2) hi (2.0) hi (0.4) LI            (8.6)
Materials, Equipment            19.1      1.4                          20.5
and Vehicles                  (19.1)    (0.9)                        (20.0)
Consulting Services,
Technical Assistance,
Training and Site
Investigation                                      8.4                8.4
(8.4) 4d           (8.4)
Land                                                         0.2        0.2
Engineering                                         2.0                 2.0
Taxes and Duties                                             7 -  79   7.9
TOTAL                       37.7      7.4     11.6       8.1      64.8
Financed by IDA            (25.3)    (2.9)    (8.8)      (-)      (37.0)
a/  Not applicable.
b/ Credit amount shown in parentheses including contingencies.
c/  Road reiustatement work would be completed through force account.
4/  Of which consulting services and technical assistance (US$8.0 million)
is to be recruited, in accordance with Association guidelines.
Retroactive FinancinA
58.     Retroactive financing from December 1, 1985, not exceeding
SDR 250,000, is included for project-related ezpenditures for consulting
services for the preparation of detailed designs; preparation of tender
documents; and evaluation of contractors' prequalification for major
contracts.



-20-
Disbursements
59.     Disbursements from the proposed credit would be made as follows:
(a)  Civil works (including construction materials) -- 32 percent;
(b)  equipment, vehicles and materials -- directly imported, 100
percent of foreign expenditure; locally manufactured, 100 per-
cent of local expenditure, ex-factory; and locally procured
(off-the-shelf), 60 percent; and
(c) consultants' services, site investigations and training -- 100
percent.
Project costs ;nd financing have been predicated on a nine-year sector dis-
bursement profile. Disbursements for small civil works contracts for less
than equivalent of $20;000 each, force account works, and small locally
procured items reimbursed at 60 percent by IDA would be made against state-
ments of expenditure (SOE), certified by WDB. Supporting documentation for
items disbursed against SOEs would be retained by WDB and made available for
IDA review upon request. All other items would be fully documented. WDB
would provide annual audited financial statements on its total operations,
including supplementary information on separate project accounts. Audits
would be conducted by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Audit reports would include a management report on internal control, income
and expenditure statement, sources and uses of funds and baLance sheet.
These reports would be submitted to tha Association within nine months of the
end of each fiscal year.
Special Account
60.     A Special Account of SDR 2.0 milliu.  (US$2.3 million equivalent) is
proposed for the project, representing about four months of estimated
IDA-financed expenditures. The Special Account would be replenished based on
the required documentation for eligible expenditures and would be operated in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Project Benefits and Risks
61.     Sri Lanka has a relatively high incidence of waterborne diseases such
as typhoid, hepatitis and diarrhea.  Health benefits arising from water
supply improvements have a direct economic impact in so far as the workforce
would be more productive and health care costs wculd be reduced.  Favorable
environmental impacts would arise as well from enhanced sewage disposl1
capability and from selective storm. drainage improvements in the Colombo
area.
62.     Sri Lanka has a relatively equitable income distribution compared to
similar developing countries. The urban poverty threshold for Sri Lanka is



-21-
about US$136 per capita per annum. Social surveys have ascertained that some
40 percent of the project-area population have incomes below the poverty
threshold. It is estimated that about 35 percent of project costs wouLd
directly benefit the urban poor, who would also benefit indirectly from
general improvements in water supply at stand post outlets, drainage and
low-cost sanitation investments.
63.     An economic analysis has been performed on the water supply com-
ponents of the proposed project using incremental revenues, as the surrogate
measure of benefits. Incremental operation and maintenance costs allow for a
2 percent per annum real efficiency improvement over the period 1986-2000.
Revenues reflect a 10 percent real increase in tariffs in years 1987 and 1988
and a 1 percent per annum real increase thereafter to reflect increasing
consumption. The analysis was performed in constant (1985, prices for
1985-2005. The water supply component of the project representing about 60
percent of total project costs, realizes an economic rate of return (ERR) of
16 percent with shadow labor wage rates of 70 percent of market rates, and is
consistent with expected benefits, bearing in mind that the project focuses
primarily on the rehabilitation and augmentation of existing water supply
facilities. In addition, the calculated ERR does not capture unquantifiable
benefits such as health improvements.
64.     T:ie average incremental cost (AIC) of water under the project ranges
from Rs 2.2 to Rs 2.8 per 1,000 liters, using market and shadow labor wage
rates, respectively, and discount rates between 10 percent and 16 percent.
The present WDB average tariff amounts to about Rs 3.4 per 1,000 liters which
compares favorably with the range of AICs and average production cost of
about Rs 2.5 per 1,000 liters.
65.     Affordability analyses indicate that household expenditures for water
supply and sewerage would average about 3 percent of total household
expenditures, after real tariff increases have been implemented to achieve
WDB's financial targets. This percentage is within the generally accepted
range for affordability.
66.     The principal risks are related to the financial health and the
financial management practices of IDB.  Satisfactory revenue generation and
cost recovery would be critical to the viability of the investment program.
The FRP is making good progress in this respect, and an ongoing USAID techni-
cal assistance project would also strengthen financial management at WDB.
The Government is committed to reducing and gradually eliminating WDB's need
to call upon the national budget to cover operating deficits. The signs are
pr*tive that there would continue to be significant improvements in WDB's
performance, but persistent monitoring and management actions would be
required throughout the implementation of the program to ensure that these
expectations are realized.



-22-
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
67.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 30, 1986



-23-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
MOT                       (MOST  CtcT 9rTATO  lb
iu  unoLb-  -VIOM   9IT1q£TILb-       ASIA & PACIFIC         AstA A PACIFIC
AM~~~X r  n (tl l ?U n} M
TOTAL                                63.6- 63 0              63.                   *
ASZWCIUL1AL                          17.2        26.2        26.1
.  3    CWTA (1us)                       *.          *-        330.0               2S.3                     1011.1
Ut  _r0eT           rOU  m  cwrn
(31L00A1  Or OnL N01VAL1N)          122.0       132.0       123.0               283.7                     50".6
P0tULATlON.PZO3TAK (TSam6)    9369.0    12516.0           13541.0
Onoa  POWATII   CZ Of TOTAL)         17.9        21.9        20.0                22.3                      33.9
POnI TioU nonGcTi6
PoMATIO  IN UAtL 2000 WLrL)                                21.1
SUTAIU    POIlTU  cm"l)                                    3I.0
FUPUIA?IO  MOSZmTUN                                         1.7
fsuu m
Paz go. M.                        130.7       180.0       233.0               173.8                     336.9
M, M  U. A1, I. LAW               573.9       517.6       562.u               353.3                    1591.4
fOUIATIOU ACE STECTU   (Z)
0-34 TS                           42.0        *1.9        35.2                30.3                      35.1
15-4  US                           34.3        54.4        60.3               ".4                        37.7
65 AND ADM                          3.6         3.6         '.3                 4.3                       3.3
VOPUlASTNI GCO0 unAT! (I)
TOTAL                               2.5         2.4         1.0                 2.0                       2.3
Un                                  4.7         4.3         2.9                 A.:                      I.1
CIUDo  alT  KATZ (Ma TUrN)           25.7        29.4        20.5                27.5                      30.1
Clt fAT! L,ASt (MSlt ThOOS)           9.2         7.3         0.0                10.2                       9.4
cROSS  Uo0UTZo0  *AT&                 2.B         2.2 1.6                         1.7                       1.0
FAMILY PLUAXLG
A .ET0tS. AWN=  (TW0S)              *-         33.3       100.3
Us5s (5 01 1o1r  1  1 )             ..          .. a3.0                       49*.                       30.5
WMAD,   WuITiO
NOCK OF FOO PrOD. rPS CAPITA
(1S69-71-100)                        93.0       103.0       148.0              1 18.      *               IZ4.4
Pa CAPITA SUL?Y Of
CALORIU  (2 Or NUI C£5t)           96.0       107.0       109.0              108.3                      115.7
r7TIN  (GI"  nz1. DAY)            4".0         41.0        44.0               60.1                      00.3
0V IICIIA ANITAL AND PULSK        13.0        IL0          *.0 /c             1'.4                      14.1
CIUJ  :AC3 1-) DATE EATA             7.1         4.9         2.0                7.3                        7.2
nALTZ
L.m lP:Xr. AT 115TN (YEARS)          82.0        e3.6       069.3                0.3                       60.b
17FAfr 'oUT. RATE (PU THOUS)        71.0         59.0        37.0               09.2                      64.9
ACCSS TO SAFT WATER (POPn
TOTAL                               ..         21.0        33.0 7d            '4.2                       *6.0
URBAN                               .          4.0         63.0 7d            77.2                       17.6
&URA4L                              ..         14.0        Id.0 id            34.6                       37.1
ACGS TO EICUTA DISPOSAL
(5 Or POPLUATZN)
TOTAL                               .          .44.0       69.0 /d             7.8                       50.1
mm"36                               ..         76.0         @.0 r7            75.6                       52.9
R"                                  ..          1.0        63.0 7T             5.5                       *-.7
PovIA--xm Pn rmTsCIcI              4694.3      5950.0      7170.0 /d          331Y.0                    7751.7
tOp. PUS  URIX VEhLU               *130.2  *   270.0      1340.0 a7T          69007                     2*484.
POP.  lr OSIT!AL UD
TOTAL                             320.0       330.0       340.0 It          1039.2                     lLl.l
UAB                               120.0 .-   ;10.0        240.0 a            299.1                     651.4
3U1L                             It060.0  *    5,.0       sd0.o 0           62b.2                     JS1i.9
5MISSIONS PU IIOSPITA 5L0  Oi.Z 3, 52.                                                                    4*.1
AVIC   Il11110560.
UMCt 5tZ (W HOUSOD
TOTAL                           -  5..                                                                    .
URBAN                              3.3                     .
L A.Z  h 3.2                                               ..                  ..
ATILACI NO. OF PLdSOMIIROOGl
TOTAL.                              2.0 flI     Z.5
03345                               2.1 7i     1.7
103*L2                              2.0 7'i    2.5
ACIJ?     O0 wl7.LLNs W1 ICT.
TOtaL                               7.s lb     '.0
133*3                             13.9  it      .      ,.
332                                 2L73       3.0



-24-                                          ANNEX I
T AUI  K                                         Page  2   of  6
SU  - %          ~~- 3004L     tA   M   9t
POST                     (11T SLVCIT  LSTLMAT1) lb
agw                La  tlWXm             ;11001.C T-N
ImilitlM   1-17A1L!L h5TIATIk3L      AbI' G IPACIFIC        ASIA   tFACItIC
OATIOU
ADJUSUD NIODLU?N' RATLOS
PAIA:   OTA.                      qS.O        99.0       103.1               92.b                     lOO.t
nAL                    100.0       104.')      104.0             105.1                     104.4
FOtAU                  90.0         94.0       101.               79.3                      97.2
SwCUaaYs TOTAL                    27.0        *7.0        54.0               31.3                      47.v
ALK                    23.0         43.0         "0               4U.4                      50.b
FOAL                   io.O        4a.0        57.0               21.1                      44.5
VOCATIO1AL (I OF SK0Da)               ..          0.4         O.4 A              3.2                      14
UIPIL-TIACNER RATIO
PL4AE                              31.0        28.0        13.0              23.0                      20.4
SMtb0aaT                            ..         ..            -                17.                      22.4
PASSUGER CA/TOUAND MP                 5*4         7.0         7.2 IL            0.9                      lu.I
RDIO £IC/RSITHUSIAD P0P             35.8         3Y.9       111.9              129.3                    172.9
TV az    msNuNau O                    ..          ..          3.2               19.8                     53.5
IamPApm ("DAIL U MEKRL
Lqi  ST') CZROJI.A?1O
PU *1OOUSMD POpUrlTIO               36.0       '8.9        110.7               25.7                     03.3
CINEVA AlAUAL ATUIDAII/CAPITA         2.9 ,J      7.3         4.3                3.0                      3.4
LAMDl PO=
TOTAL LAWE FORM (TN0s)             3391.0      4138.0      5920.0
FrIULE  PUPCaT)                   22.6        23.7        25.2               33.2                      33.6
AcRCILITOR  (P1UcET)              53.0         55.0       54.0 /d            69.3                      52.2
Ilwsrm  1pzRczNr)                 14.0        14.0        14.0 7             15J.3                     17.9
PARTICFATION RATE (PRCI)
TOTAL                              34.3        33.5        23.4              41.9                      36.9
Kai                               50.8        49.1        50.9               53.3                      Su.&
FvUME                             16.2         16.5       17.3               L9.1                      26.3
EcIUNc DZPEDEUC! RATIO                1.3         1.4         1.0               1.0                       1.1
turn orinuv=ao.
PREcUt of PrIVATE INcSt
YCIVD BY
HIQGIM iS Of NOSENOLDS             26.4 Ih    18.2         ..                 ..   .
IHlSS 20S OF aIIIOSZLDs           52.1 76     43.4         ..                 ..                       45
UOST 20 OF uaWOOWu                 ..5 iiE     7.5        ..                 ..                        6.4
LOWIS? 4*0 OP IIIOLDS             13.7 7W      19.2        ..                 ..                       15.5
tSTDlTD AMWLE PDvUu UcrO
LAYL (011EZ CAPITA)
01*                                 ..         ..          ..               I13.9                     51.
cstmco uurm vovw* rza#s
L       EVEL (5  FR CAFITA)
mUAL..                                          ..                           61.7                     164.7
ESDIATEU rOP. NELG1 ASSOLOTM
POVERTY tNCOIW  LEME  CZ)
am                                 ..          ..          ..                '.8                       23.5
WUAL                                                                          1.7                      37.5
MT? AVALT AsU.
80T APPICAELE
X 0 T t *
/        a   Sh   mp weragas for eacd Ladleacor are moPuUtida!"10cm   *el_dtlIm aena. _ v.raj. of cmarteU
ama_   che Ind±acove depends an evaLabtllC3 Of data and LB nee mitoM
/b  OUalee  atbetWiS noCed.  Dota far 1930" refer to *ny year beeme 159 mmS 19a 1; 1  Dat  oto 1V7U0" becwee
1969 en  1971; and data for "lnc Racenc tactce" between lost am 1913.
7c   1977;  /J  1930; /. 1932; /f 1979;  , 1976; lb 1963; /i 1973; ,  1951.
1, 19m5



ANNEX I
-25-                                            Page 3 of 6
DEFIM 101311 OF SOCIAL INDICATUSS
Na Altho  the data m drawn f1ronmmo pnllyjudpd Semm aslonianwave and miabl it shoualdo be notd tha they may not be nienamonralpo
canpmbla beausof dt lack ar  sdardid duio_i   a" -ni'W  usd by dilerant commtrm in cdllcing the data The data as. nonethelw usful to
d.cnb a or  mapitud _ indate twends and dcme man major dCsmma between munine
The  mm snpp aim t O th .m  eumry   p of the subjet conry and t21 a coumwy roup with smewh  higher averap income than the country
row of the bt Country t forM H Far    Income Oil E!ponu - grou whee -Ma& Incom North Afra and Middk Ea" mschown beause of uronger
woo-cuklw  allitiedI In Si Aeemroup dat thM  etups am POPultion wehted sthmec mns for ch indcator and shown only when majonsy
of the aunmmnapoup ha d uforth tindicat  t Slum  thdcovempfcountrnuamong theindisoedepnds on the avadablty of data  d is not umform.
cauomn rus be madeedl im smi   avngmn of one indicmr to amohr Thes aeage am only uul in compang the valu of on indicator at a time among
Si couy and mba poup
ALt A(thosnd sq.km.)                                            Cmd DnARate (per rhosado-Number of live births in the year
Tel-Total surface -e compnsing land ams and inland wattm        per thousand of rid-year populauion; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                        Crd Dash Ril (per uhemsO-Nuumber of deaths in the year
Agvkuhl- Estimate of aguicultural sits usd ttnporrily or        per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently ror arops pasturs, markt and kitchen psie  or to    Gem Reptss. Rare-Average number of daughter a woman
ie ralow. 1960. 1970 and 1932 dats.                             wil bear in ber noninL reproductive pcriod if she experences
prent ag-specific fertility rates: usually five-year avenrgS ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USSI-NP per capita estimates at curent          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pens calculated by same converion method as World             , PlarAcarblw  Aimed (rhaadgj-Annual num-
Bopat A:lu (198143 basisk 1933 data.                           bter of acceptos ofrbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning progrm.
consumption of commercal primary energy (coal and ligrite.      Fnd  Plmdq!-fSrs (peren of reTied w          )-The percen-
petroleum  natura gs and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal eec-    tap of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whboe husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
19L2 datai                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive wage is measured for other age
POPUlATION AND VfTAL STATIStICS                                 groups
Tod hpd.sie. Mid-Vatw (sheatsjni-As of july 1:1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NULRMMON
and 1913 data.
EWm   hopubtim (pwcom of total)-Ratio of urban to total       ^qndex of Fad Prsahtc 9ffmPe Cap. (1971 - J00)-Indexor per
populstion;fe  deu finition of uroa-Ratio of urban to totpal-    capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
popuaion. different defiuons of urba areas may affect cuIpw     exdudes anial feed and seed or agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countris: 1960. 1970. and 193 data.      incdude primary cO'mmodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
-        Fbwjecdus                                              which are edible And contain nutrienti (e.g. coffee and tea are
Poptp.      inr )ar 2000-The projection of populaton for 2000,  exdudedal they cumprise. ceieals. root crops, pukes, oil seeds,
iade for each economy sprately. Staruing with information on    vegtabks, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and suwr beets, livestock, and
total population by ag and se  fertility rateL mortality rates and  livestock products Aggreate production of each country is based
intenational migrtion in the base year 1980. these puametre     on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervas on the basis of pnerlized  1982 dat
asmptions unti the populaton becaue stationary.                 Pr Cpia Sawf of Cabrie (percnt of reqenrs-Cor put-
Smtanrsy populokot-Is one in which ae- and sex-specifc mor-     ed from calore equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rats have not changed over a long period. whike age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levd  tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
wne reproduction rate-1t. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agnculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the agr structure is also  rood processing. and losses in distnbution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activity
size was estimated on the basis or the projected characteristics of  and health considenng environmental temperature. body wetghts.
the population in the year 000. and the rate of dedine of fertilty  age and sex distnbution of population. and allowtng 10 percent for
rat to replacement leveL                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
otplsriton Momeutues-ls the tendency for population growth to   Par Ccp& Spp&E of Prorera rinms per day)-Protein content of
continuc beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Nea supply of food is defined
achievet that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countres established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year i is measured as  provide for minimurn allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate suationary population to the populaton in  day and 20 grms of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the yr t. given the asumption that ferlity remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Thes standards are lower than those of
mst levd from yer i onwad. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Am,al  Oa*.y                                                    averge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqka-Mid-year population per squarg kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ann; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.                 hr Capita  Awteiu Sppy From A n_it and Palse-Protcin supply
hr sqJkne. agrktiwsla  d-Computed as above for aigncultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
h,Sseis Ager Smtriw  (pitevare-Children t0-14 yearsL. work-     CMMI'qe 1I4j Deart Roo. (perrhoazadi)-Number ordeaths of
ingage(l5U-ye )sl.and retired 165 years and over as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-yar population: .60. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countnes data denved
hpds    Growth Rare (prtair)-srel-Annual growth rates of        from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-yr population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083        HEALTH
_aSu GC_uS AsM               wplsin.  Annual growth rates       Life Expenc  r -0A (frr-Nuumber of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data,    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for al people



-26-                                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
a  w     ofofit birh we to suy the mm trouhout in fife:  w of.leahe. Rodo - prmwy. and ue&odwaj-Total students en-
1960 1970 nd 1913 data                                       rolled in priarn  mud seondry levcs divided by numben of
gat 5M     b tAw  (per tisiaunad-Number of infan  who die     teachm  in the corresponding lebis.
before reaching one yr or age per thousnd Uve birdhs in a given
year. 1960.1970 and 1913 dataL                                CONSUMPrlON
Acemr te so  Mtb  (        o   I    a)st4  whi11 imd          h    ger CG . (ps r t_Amaid p.pokkein)-Pasenger can com-
, L-Number of people (total, urbtn and rid) wih  amnablc      prise motor can scating ls than eight perso.ns excludes ambul-
ar   to sfe wtr supply (in         atad surfac wate  or       anes, har  and militay vhic.
un_uas  but uonumitad water suc - that from protctd           Rft* Rwcauv (per trhmUidpap.kuuu)-AIl type, of ecive
boehl.         and  sausitary wls) a prctaW5 of thir rec-     ror radio broadcast to gmnel public pe thousand or population;
tw popuono. In an urba ams a pubk fountain or tandpost        exde  un4icensed receivrs in counties and in yeas when
bced not mnore thn  200 tnen frof a hou  nr be Insd d         reistration of radio sets was in clfec data for renc years may
a bi  wit   rao ble i o*    of that housew   In mrnrl ue'     not be comparable since mos counts abolished licnsing.
reaolbleas util ml that the hoswfe or nariber of(the
_ouselhoid do not have to sped a disproportiont part of the day  r  Acevw (Pw th=sema.dp*peluus-TV reees for bradcas
in feig the fmily's water needs.                              to adl   public per thousand population. excudes un tensd TV
Acess tr am" Ddps (,, ap Jruoi                                  m n      in countris an in yean whe registration of TV set was
&W nware-Number of people (total. un, and rual)    dn effecb
ecreu  diposal a pesuta    of their respective populanePa    Ckcsiltk (per ro _mdpapinaias-Sbows the aver-
Exce  dispos  may indude the colection and disosl with or     age cuwltwo of daily   nral nereat newpper.- defined as a
without treatmnt, of humn eacre  and waste-water by water-    piodical pubhtUo  devoted primarily to recording gneal news.
borne stem  or the use of pit privies and simildar insalltionl  It is consdered to be daily' ifit appears at kast four tines a week.
Ryvdei per Pkysldm-lpulition divided by number of prac-       Ciwas Aimu Ane_arne per Capita per Yew-Based on the
usng physinquafi   from a medical chool at univjmty gvd       numnber of tickets sold during the yar. including admissions to
A_ulkd  per Nwziq Peo4w-Plpulation divided by number of  dn ve-m cinema and mobile unia
practicing male and female grduate nuses assistant nurse.     L        FORCE
prac*c  nura and nursing aularnes.                            TW  Low r         _    rhme_b-Econotnically active persons. in-
A     *'' L  aed   b  ti  peciave number of                   cluding armied forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(tatL urm  ad rual)divied  y thr repwtve nmbe of  udcts. w..covering population or all ages Defunitions in
hospital beds availble. i public and privame gemeral and seilm  aiu  onre  r  o  oprii~14.90ad11  aa
hospital and rebabilitation centers ot.ndae ielizs    d       vouscountnes ostnot caompare°  19rab97sand9e  data.
perm_anenly staffed by at klt one physician. Establislnuts prov-  F_Ae  (perer.e-Femnalc labor fore as percentage of tol labor
iding pnpally antodial care are no induded. Rural hospitals   ften.
howr, indude health and medicenta snot pemanently staffed     4ricmkwe (parow-Labor force in farming. foresry hunting
by a phyician  ut by a medical asstant. nurw, midwifec etc.)    and fisiung as percntage of totl labor fome; 190. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-pent accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medi failtie.L                                             lawy (pearrJ-Labor forge in mining, constuction. manu-
A'__kw pwe Hospita Jr-Total number or admissions to or        facturing and electricitv, water and gas as percentage of total labor
disc_ag, from hospitals-divided by the number of beds        foree 1960. 1970 and i 980 data.
Prne , Rate J       c(pe ra-uteudl awk. _,  dfamie-rioopaion
HOUSING                                                       or activity raes are computed as total, male and femal lbor fore
Averae 3r, of  ewmbI  (peruw per himAhiMJ--fMd. w he.         as p    tenages O totaL male and female population or all a
med-A housold consists ofa group of individuals who sbarm     rpecty 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These a  based an [LO's
living quarers and tbh  mn  meals. A boarder or todpr may or  participation rates rewlting age-sx sticture ofttK population, and
may not be included in the household for satistical purposes  long time trend. A few esutmates are from national sourcns
Average -M_auer of Pena  pe Rooem-..a, woi. mw,marirwdl-      Eceak Drtpdeacy Ratio-Ratio of populauon under t5. and
Average number of peron  per room in aU urban, and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                INCOME DISTR[UTION
PyMW e of Dmveug wih k  rcrrioral.Me. and rue!-              Percena  of Tomr Dspsabk Inomw (both in cars md kiud)-
Conventional dwelings with eectricity in iving quarters as percen-  Accruing to percntde groups of households ranked by total house.
tag of totaL ub  and rural dweling respetively,              hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A41u,d EArnad t Rle                                          The following esiimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Aruwy school - lola. mok ned femak-Gross total, male and    klvdes and should be interpreted with considerable cauUon.
fema enollment of aU ags at the primary lve as percntages of  Esiated Ahsohes Poevr.v Incomw Levd e USS per cWaa-wha
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  d     Absolute poverty income level is that income level
conider prinary shool age to be 6-11 yer others do not The    below wbich a minimal nutritionally adequate diet pius essential
differen   in country practe in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
ar refetd in the ratios psvL For some counties with unversal  Esmad Reladve Pwery larm  Lee (USS per capira)-whan
education, go  enrollment may exced 100 percent since some   and rul-tural rdative poverty income level is one-tbird of
pupils are blow or above the country's standard pnrnary-shool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age                                                           derived from the rural level with austment for higher cost of
Secundry schoo - toral. nde end femak-Computed as above:    living in urban areas
seondary educatio  require at klt four year of approved pri-  Estimated Phplutm Briow Abslnur Poberr Incomw Lew  (jp,
arny mneuca   provides general vocational, or teacher training  ex       and rnr&- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 year of age correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
cage cousep are geally excuded.
YoatkadMWO           'percer qfsecondnryJ-Vocarsonal insutu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
to  indcud technicaL industriaL or other progrms which opate         Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indApendcnty of as deprmu  of secondary institutions                                  June 1985



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
SRI LANKA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1984 BY SECTOR                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z. constant Dricei)
Value Added
S Million    Z                     1970-77        1977-84        1970-64
Agriculture                      1,Ij9     28.0                      2.0            4.0           3.0
Industry !J                     1,347      24.8                     2.1             5.3           3.9
Services                        2.566      47.2                     3.7             La            5.4
Total /                       5,432    100.0                      2.9             5.7           4.4
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984
US$ Million       S
GDP at Market Prices                              6,012       100.0
Investment                                       1,567         26.1
Gross National Savings                            1,347        22.4
Current Account Deficit                             220         3.7
Exports of Goods and UFS                         1,755         29.2
Imports of Goods and NFS                         2,121         35.3
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs million)    Z of CDP at Market Prices
1984         1975      1983       1984
Current Receipts S)                          33,342         17.2     18.9       21.8
Current Expenditures Al                      27,795         18.3     18.6       18.2
Current Surplus                               5,547         -1.1      0.3        3.6
Capital Expenditures e/                      21,105          7.3     13.7       13.8
Ezternal Assistance                          12,934          3.2       8.0       8.5
MJ Manufacturing, mining, and construction.
J GDP at factor cost.
4/  Includes capital revenue.
d/  Includes advance accounts.
ej  Includes net lending.
South Asia Programs Departuent
February 5, 1986



ANNEX I
-28-                        Page 6 of 6
sRI LIANKA- ECONOMIC INDICATORS
MONEY. CREDIT, AND PRICES                  12        1977      1978     1222      l9B0      1211      1921    l21        114
(end of period)                                                                (Rs Million)
Money and Quasi Money                     3,115    8,717    10,892   15,058   19,860   24,447   30,510   37,257    43,427
Bank Credit to Public Sector              2,856    4,659      4,226    6,267   13,095   17,277   21,828   21,918    18,703
Bank Credit to Private Sector             1,320    4,116      6,449    8.705   12,709   16,690   20,570   27,375    31,224
(Percentage. or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Honey as Z of CDP          22.8      23.9      25.5       28.7     29.9      28.8      30.5      30.6       28.4
General Price Index (1970-100)            100.0    147.0    164.8       182.6    230.2    271.6    301.1    343.3         400.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                        +5.9      +1.2    +12.1      +10.8    +26.1    +18.0    +10.8    +14.0          +16.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector              +10.4      +7.7      -9.3     +48.3   +109.0    +31.9    +26.3         +0.4     -14.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector              +8.6    +40.5    +56.7       +35.0    +46.0    +31.3    +23.2    +33.1           14.1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1984)
1982     1903      1984                                     $ Million         z
CUSS Million)
Tea                               620        42.0
Exports of Goods, NFS                    1,305    1,360    1,755         Rubber                             130         8.8
Imports of Goods, NFS                    2,205    2,138    2,121         Coconut Products                    60         4.1
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                -900      -778      -366       All Other Comodities               665        45.1
Net Factor Income                          -98      -138     -131               TOTAL                     1,475       100.0
Net Transfers & Remittances                264       274       277
Balance on Current Account                -734      -642     -220
EXTERNAL DEBT ($ Million) al
Direct Foreign Investment                   63        37        36
Net MALT Loans                             403       292      311                                       December    December
Disbursements                            472      373       410                                         1983         1984
Amortization                              69        81        99
Capital Grants                             162       171       154       Total Outstanding               3,678        3,738
Other Capital (net)                         79       143        24
Change in Reserves (+ - increase)          -27        +1      .305       Total Outstanding
and Disbursed                2,214        2,420
Gross Reserves (end-year)                  527       522      735
Net Reserves (end-year)                    -22       -21      284
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products                                         DEBT SERVICE RATIO J  tS)        17.7         14.2
Imports                                  590      468       419
Exports                                  158       114      129
IBRDJIDA LENDING, September 30. 1985 (US$ Million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
IBRD     IDA
End 1979                  End 1982
USS1.00 - Rs 15.45        US$1.00 - Rs 21.32                             Outstanding and Disbursed           34.6    362.7
Rs 1.00 - USS 0.06        Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.05                             Undisbursed                         23.9    342.2
End 1980                  End 1983                                       Outstanding, including
USS1.00 - Rs 18.00        US$1.00 - Rs 25.00                                Undisbursed                      58.5    704.9
Rs 1.00 - USC 0.06        Re 1.00 - USS 0.04
End 1981                  End 1984
US$1.00 - Rs 20.55        US$1.00 - Rs 26.28
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.05        Re 1.00 - US$ 0.04
i/ Repayable in foreign currencies and vith a maturity over one year.
h/ Ratio of debt service on public and publicly guaranteed MHLT debt (including IMF charges
and repurchases) to exports of goods and services.
South Asia Programs Department
February 5, 1986



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                         Amount
Credit                                                                 (net of cancellations)
No.       Year   Borrower        Purpose                             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and sixteen credits fully disbursed                       72.9  133.2
818       1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                    21.0       5.1
891       1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                      20.0       7.0
931       1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                             15.5       9.0
979       1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Canga Technical Assistance                3.0       1.3
994       1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                          53.0     13.0
1017       1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation                 16.0      5.8
1020       1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                                30.0      0.7
1041       1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                               30.0      12.6
1048       1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                       19.5      8.4
1079 /a    1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                          33.5     13.5
1130 7a    1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                             13.5       3.6
1160 7T    1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation                 30.0     18.1
1166 7a    1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development III                    90.0     40.6
1182 7a    1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                            30.0     23.1
1210 7a    1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                     36.0     10.7
1240 75    1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                               20.0       9.0
2187       1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                              36.7      -       2.6
1317 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                         9.0      8.4
1363 7a    1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                           23.0     12.2
1401 7a    1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                   25.0       8.1
1494 7/ /b 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development IV                    30.0      30.0
2437 Tb -  1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development IV             12.1             12.1
1537 7a    1985  Sri Lanka  Major Irrigation Rehabilitation                   17.0     17.6
2517       1985  Sri Lanka  Second Roads                              24.0             21.1
1562 /a    1985  Sri Lanka  Fourth Tree Crops                                55.0      55.6
2576 7a /b 1985  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development II                      38.0             38.0
TOTAL                                                                183.7  753.2    387.2
of which has been repaid                                            52.1    6.2        -
Total now outstanding                                                131.6  747.0
Amount sold                                3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                                    128.0  747.0
Total Undisbursed                                                     35.7  351.5    387.2
/a IDA 6th and 7th replenishment Credits, principal amounts and credits not
yet effective shown in US dollars equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown
in the President's Reports and undisbursed amounts for effective credits shown
in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at March 31, 1986.
/b Not yet effective.
7T The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of the US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Year              Obligor                     Type of Business         Amount (USn  million)
Loan   Equity  Total
1970         Pearl Textile                   Textiles                   2.50   0.75    3.25
1978/80/83   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon         Development Banking        -      0.45    0.45
1978/81      Bank of Ceylon                  Development Banking        7.00    -       7.00
1979/81      Cyntex                          Textiles                   3.15   0.54    3.69
1979         Kikechris Industries            Polypropylene Bag          0.89   0.10      .99
1980/84/85   LOLC                            Leasing                    3.00   0.34    3.34
1981         Taj Lanka Hotels                Hotel                     19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Commitments                               35.84   2.88   38.72
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Rerayments, and Sales                          17.15    .75   17.90
Total Commitments now Held by IFC                     18.69   2.13   20.82



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementarl Project Data Sheet
Section r: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:        12 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:           Ministry of Local Government,
Housing and Construction
Cc)  Date of first Bank mission to consider project:   September 2, 1985
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:              November 1, 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                  March 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                       August 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
The Borrower would execute a subsidiary loan agreement
with WDB (para. 48).
Other Conditions
(a) The Borrower would complete construction of (i) ocean
outfalls at Colombo North and Co'cmbo South; and
(ii) sewerage system pump stations at Colombo,
Kolonnava and Mount Lavinia by December 31, 1987
(para. 36).



-32-                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) WDB vould take all necessary measures to improve
operational efficiency and generate adequate funds
to (i) cover operating expenses and vorking capital
requirements from 1987 onwards, and (ii) also cover
debt service or depreciation. vhichever ix higher,
from 1989 onwards (para. 54).



IBRD 19519
Vaivwaddittural  Pointi Prron                             S R  I   L A  N  K  A
KoflkIantucl?      i
MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
r  hnw.km.hch.m
*     Municipal Councils             Elevntion  in feet
*    Urban councils                         .0 a100
-l    National roads                     _       _100-50o
0  Selec~ted townm and villages %,0
Railroad,                        _       0 _    03000
*0    National capital                        3000-5000
kMpulbm                          Provinca boundaries s                  Om, 500
Talavaxinnnna                                                         Rivers
M1a1nnr                                                                       a        70      4t'    '.    '
1  uC        70      X   r0        so
+-,_ *w~~aun,ft
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rg I:
.esdwalKAnuuc  -c /
D.hlaa.Ia-Mt. La-in,.                                      e~~~~~~Pwc ndarwai
S    Mdw oKtretuwa  * 
CHIN5,                         A                              '
PAKISTAN,'      Bp"Vageruwaalk
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A r~*r flt' \~ ' '                                     i
COLOMBO /lann-a                1.4-L.     a1 \
Dehi.olAralnnod                                                                                               ...., aMC. b'l u
t- *mini:  \           |      -w0DolaO                      u
I)~~~~~~~~~a                         \         pl to a 
Ponedua                                                                                            Corpa-Isa \    nNRW
anoode~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  n ans
ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n tItCd na nn,w u-@ nen4 -. )                         IC
Xj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~na - agor..g.  a)                           .
clwT.. tp D- p.cpd
Ablang r;rh/-f    nlo              K     
*.V..n, P. &W- n... a-
SRI LANKA                                                                                                                     .
W0* tt. l/MebolS Sr ,/   r 1   >   sfin  S                 |R
COLOME0t //olnr   < J  T  54     i       ^                 -1~~~~~ESRARY198






