Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16263
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1700-CE)
January 15, 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June, 1996)
Currency unit       =   Sri Lanka Rupee (SL Rs)
SL Rs 1.00          =   US$ 0.0182
US$ 1.00                SL Rs 54.969
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mly       million liters per year (1 liter = 0.26 US gallons)
mgd       million gallons per day (1 mgd = 4,543 liters per day)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMC       -      Colombo Municipal Corporation
CSPU      -      Clean Settlement Project Unit
ERR       -      Economic Rate of Return
GCA       -      Greater Colombo Area
GOSL      -      Government of Sri Lanka
IDA       -      International Development Association
MHC&PU -         Ministry of Housing, Construction and Public
Utilities
NHDA      -      National Housing Development Agency
NWSDB   -        National Water Supply and Drainage Board
OECF      -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
O&M       -      Operation and Maintenance
SAR       -      Staff Appraisal Report
TA        -      Technical Assistance
TOR       -      Terms of Reference
Vice President    D. Joseph Wood
Director        Mieko Nishimizu
Division Chief    Marie Robinson
Staff Member    Toshiaki Keicho (Urban Environmental Specialist)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1700-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..........................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....2....................................2
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................5
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .........................................6
B. Achievement of Objectives .....6....................................6
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................8
D. Project Sustainabiity .....9.....................................9
E. IDA Performance ............      .....................:                                   10
F. Performance of Borrower/Beneficiary ................................ 11
G. Assessment of Outcome .................................11
H. Future Operation ................................ 12
1.    Key  Lessons Learned ................................                                  12
J. Evaluation of Program Objective Categories ................................               14
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I   Summary of Assessments
Table 2   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3   Project Tirnetable
Table 4   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A  Project Costs
Table 8B  Project Financing
Table 9   Econornic Costs and Benefits
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)
B. Borrower's Evaluation
[This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorization.l






\IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1700-CE)
Preface
This is the Imnplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the WATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT in Sri Lanka, for which CR. 1700-CE in the amount of
SDR 32.1 million equivalent was approved on May 15, 1986 and made effective on December 18, 1986.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1996, one year behind the originally scheduled closing date.
It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on October 17, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Toshiaki Keicho (SAlIN) of the South Asia Region, under supervision
of Wiebe Moes (SAIIN), and reviewed by Marie Robinson, Division Chief, and Fakhruddin Ahmed,
Project Advisor. The Borrower provided its own evaluation that is included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the IDA's final supervision/completion mission,
July, 1996. It is based on material in the project file and discussions with implementing agency
officials. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project, by providing IDA with the necessary data, and by cooperating with the ICR team of IDA.






- 2 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1700-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.         While the urban population of Sri Lanka is relatively small and not growing as rapidly as other
countries in the region, its urban areas continue to suffer from inadequate water supply and sanitation
systems and inefficient operations.
2.         Providing water supply and sanitation services is the responsibility of the Ministry of Housing,
Construction and Public Utilities (MHC&PU), which has delegated it primnarily to the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB). NWSDB has concentrated its activities in the urban areas and the
large piped water schemes in the rural areas. Local authorities have a general responsibility for the provision
of services within their boundaries, but in many cases this responsibility is discharged by NWSDB.
3.         This project was identified from NWSDB's ten-year (1986-95) investment program for urban
water supply, sewerage, drainage, sanitation and technical assistance formulated in 1985. The project,
therefore, kept with the sector priorities set out in the program.
Project Objectives
4.         The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) increase utilization of existing water supply
and sanitation systems through rehabilitation and extension; (b) improve NWSDB's technical, managerial
and operational practices; and (c) improve public health through increased service levels of safe water
supply, sanitation and drainage. These objectives were to be achieved through physical investments for the
rehabilitation and extension of the existing transmission and distribution systems and institutional and
financial measures aimed to strengthen NWSDB.
5.         The objectives generally supported the overall sector development strategy of the Govermnent
of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and the sector policy adjustments already underway. They were clearly defined and
generally verifiable by monitoring indicators set at appraisal.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.         The project generally achieved its physical objectives, but with significant delays. Most of the
main physical works were successfully completed in Colombo and Maharagama. However, some smaller
components in other towns were dropped because of the cost escalation caused by implementation delays.
The delays were mainly due to slow progress in preparation of detailed designs and procurement decisions.
With respect to low cost sanitation, it should be noted that excellent results were produced by the shift of
responsibility from the National Housing Development Agency (NHDA) to the newly established Clean
Settlement Project Unit (CSPU) of MHC&PU. Through beneficiary participation and community-driven
implementation, CSPU effectively facilitated the construction of latrines, and this became one of the most
successful components of the project.



-3-
7          The project's achievement of the financial objectives was partial, with NWSDB's deficient
financial performance during the first several years of the project. From the start to December 1990,
NWSDB's financial situation was in a critical condition mainly because GOSL failed to adjust water tariff
despite IDA's repeated requests. Only after IDA officially threatened to suspend disbursements in late 1990,
GOSL took necessary measures to improve the financial situation of NWSDB including tariff increase.
Finally, NWSDB complied with the financial covenants which required it to generate sufficient revenues to
cover operating expenses and working capital requirements from 1987 onwards and also to cover debt
service or depreciation, whichever is higher, from 1989 onwards. The efficiency improvement in billing and
collection was one of the main elements of achievements of the financial objectives.
8.         The project failed to achieve the- institutional development objectives. Although NWSDB
implemented most of the institutional components and ostensibly benefited from various training and
technical assistance, some institutional problems still exist in NWSDB.
9.         Project sustainability is uncertain for three key reasons. First, NWSDB's institutional capacity,
especially in operation and maintenance and in project management, still remains weak as the high rate of
unaccounted-for-water and implementation delays prove. Second, GOSL's commitment to cost recovery,
especially timely tariff adjustment, is unclear. GOSL became uncommitted again during the very last year of
the implementation period, and NWSDB's financial performance recently started deteriorating. As the
ultimate test of project sustainability is the ability of the government to mobilize resources through tariffs,
sustainability is uncertain unless GOSL is fully committed to periodic tariff adjustments to achieve cost
recovery. Third, NWSDB remains subject to tight government control and frequent interventions despite
project's attempt to increase its autonomy. Private sector involvement could help address these problems.
10.        The IDA's performance in project identification was satisfactory. However, preparation
assistance by IDA was deficient, and, therefore, the project was insufficiently prepared. Also, IDA's project
appraisal was unsatisfactory. NWSDB's implementation capacity and borrower commitment to resource
mobilization were not appropriately assessed at appraisal. The IDA's performance during the supervision
was generally satisfactory. The visits of supervision missions were frequent and timely, and issues were
properly identified and monitored.
11.        Project preparation by the Borrower was deficient, and implementation moved slowly in the
initial years of the project. However, the project made a good progress during the last half of the
implementation period with most of the components completed. Compliance with the financial covenants in
respect of water tariffs and cost recovery was first in default but finally achieved. Nevertheless, it should be
noted that there are a number of misleading features of NWSDB's current financial statements which cause
its financial performance to appear better than they are. IDA's procurement guidelines for works, goods and
services were generally followed by the Borrower.
12.        The overall outcome of the project was unsatisfactory in view of such factors as the lack of
achievements in the financial and institutional components and the significantly lower economic rate of return
than assumed at appraisal. Furthermore, considering ten years of implementation period including one year
extension, the project could have achieved more.
Summarv of Findings. Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.        The operation plans with institutional arrangements and estimated annual operation and
maintenance costs for the assets created under the project have been prepared by NWSDB. In most cases,
the assets created or rehabilitated under the project are already in operation, and institutional arrangements
for operations already exist. Key indicators will need to be monitored.



- 4 -
14.        The key lessons for future water supply and sanitation projects in Sri Lanka include the
following:
a) High quality at entry is necessary since the quality of project preparation and appraisal
seriously affects implementation.
b) The Borrower's procurement processes need to be streamnlined, and NWSDB's capacity to
deal with procurement related problems needs to be strengthened.
c) Earlier intervention by IDA is more effective if projects are experiencing problems.
d) In order to avoid the misunderstanding that the only measure to recover recurrent cost is
tariff adjustment, such factors as increasing operational efficiency and reducing recurrent cost
should be explicitly incorporated into financial covenants.
e) Donor coordination should be improved to better use the limited resources and to ensure that
each donor's efforts are consistent with the government's long-term sector strategy.
f) Performance based incentive schemes are necessary to retain better trained staff and to
recruit competent technical staff. Also, some mechanisms to facilitate transfer of skills through
technical assistance should be introduced.
g) Training programs should be designed to reorient government officials and to improve their
skills in commnunity participation in addition to technical and managerial skills.
h) Considering the various deficiencies facing the water supply and sanitation sector in Sri
Lanka and the increasing demand for clean water and sanitation services, sector reform is
needed to improve the operational efficiency and meet the future challenge. The reform would
include among others: (i) establishing an autonomous Water and Sewerage Agency for the
Greater Colombo Area; (ii) involving private sector; and (iii) redefining the role of NWSDB.






-5-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1700-CE)
PART I - Proet ImuLementatIon Assessment
Project Identity
Name:     WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit:    CR. 1700-CE
RVP Unit:    South Asia
Country:    Sri Lanka
Sector:    Infrastructure
Sub-sector:   Water Supply and Sanitation
Background
1.1    While the urban population of Sri Lanka is relatively small and not growing as rapidly as other
countries in the region, it was estimated that the urban population made up alnost a quarter of the population
in 1995. Although some attempts have been made in the past to irnprove urban water supply and sanitation,
the urban areas in Sri Lanka continue to suffer from the inadequate systems and inefficient operations.
According to the recent data, service coverage for water supply in the Greater Colombo Area (GCA) stands
at 93%, sewerage services is available to only 19% of the residents, and on-site sanitation facilities serve
66% of the population.
1.2    Providing water supply and sanitation services is the responsibility of the Ministry of Housing,
Construction and Public Utilities (MHC&PU), which has delegated it primarily to the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB). NWSDB has concentrated its activities in the urban areas and the
large piped water schemes in the rural areas. Local authorities have a general responsibility for the provision
of services within their boundaries, but in many cases this responsibility is discharged by NWSDB. In
certain other instances, NWSDB provides water supply in bulk to the local authorities who distribute and bill
their consurners accordingly.
1.3   IDA's involvement in water supply and sanitation sector in Sri Lanka started in 1977 when the First
Water Supply Project (Cr. 709-CE) was approved. The First Project was an effort to respond to the urgent
water supply needs of GCA. The project focused on construction activities, and institutional development
objectives were given secondary imnportance. The project was relatively successful in terms of the
construction targets. The credit, delayed by fifteen months, was closed in June, 1983.
1.4    The Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 1041-CE) was approved in 1980 to
complement sector development efforts initiated under the First Project. The main objectives of the Second
Project were to a) improve water supply and sewerage services in GCA and b) strengthen technical, financial
and operating performance of NWSDB. The project facilitated rehabilitation and expansion of water supply
and sewerage systems, and NWSDB benefited from training and technical assistance. Although revenue
from water tariffs increased under the project, full cost recovery was not achieved. The credit, delayed by
one and a half years, was closed in March, 1987.



-6-
1.5    After IDA comnpleted a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study (Report No. 4190-CE) which
identified major sector development constraints and outlined a strategy to address them, NWSDB formulated
in detail a ten-year (1986-95) investment program for urban water supply, sewerage, drainage, sanitation and
technical assistance in 1985. From the program, the Third Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1700-CE) was identified. The project was designed within the sector priorities set out in the
program which included a) rehabilitation of existing assets, particularly production facilities and distribution
systems; b) improvement of operation and maintenance, with emphasis on training at the operational level;
and c) focus on projects with revenue generating potential, such as extension of distribution systemns to make
better use of existing production facilities. The Third Project with a credit amounting to US$ 64.8 million
was signed on July 24, 1986, became effective on December 18, 1986, and closed on June 30, 1996, one
year after the original closing date.
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
2.1    The principal objectives of the project were to:
a)    increase utilization of existing water supply and sanitation systems through rehabilitation
and extension;
b)    improve NWSDB's technical, managerial and operational practices; and
c)    improve public health through increased service levels of safe water supply, sanitation and
drainage.
2.2    These objectives were to be achieved through physical investments for the rehabilitation and
extension of the existing transmission and distribution systems and institutional and financial measures aimed
to strengthen NWSDB. Main physical investments of the original project included the following
components: a) rehabilitation and extension of the Colombo water supply system; b) extension of the
Maharagama water supply system; c) provision of low cost sanitation facilities in low-income areas of
Colombo; and d) rehabilitation and extension of the water supply systems in Amparai, Anuradhapura and
Towns East. Main institutional and financial measures to achieve the project objectives included: a) technical
assistance to improve NWSDB's project design and construction management capability; b) training for
NWSDB staff on operations and maintenance and project management; c) various studies designed to
address key sector issues; and d) financial measures such as timely adjustments to tariffs and improved
billing and collection.
2.3    The objectives generally supported the overall sector development strategy of the Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL) and the sector policy adjustments already underway. GOSL's sector development strategy
which was prepared in mid 1980s aimed at increased operating efficiency, institutional development and
financial strengthening. The project objectives were consistent with this strategy. The objectives also
supported transformation of NWSDB, initiated under the Second Project, from its design and construction
orientation to the one in which operation, maintenance and commercial activities are of prime concern.
2.4    The objectives were clearly defined and verifiable, except the third objective (health benefits), by
monitoring indicators set at appraisal. These indicators included physical criteria such as water production
and consumption as well as financial ones. They were to be reported periodically to monitor progress.
B. Achievement of Objectives
3.1    Overall, the project only partially achieved its objectives with significant delays. The project's
physical objectives were mainly achieved although some components were dropped in course of



-7-
implementation. The achievement of the financial objectives was partial, with NWSDB's deficient financial
performance during the first several years of the project. The project failed to achieve its institutional
development objectives.
3.2    Physical Objectives: The project mainly achieved its physical objectives related to the rehabilitation
and extension of the existing water supply and sanitation systems although the project's physical components
experienced significant delays for the first several years of the implementation period. The delays were
mainly due to slow progress on detailed designs and procurement decisions, but also due to civil disturbance
and shortage of counterpart funds. The delays caused escalation of construction costs and, therefore, several
components (Aniparai, Anuradhapura and Towns East water supply) had to be dropped to maintain total
project costs at appraisal estimate. However, most of the physical components for Colombo and
Maharagama, which were the major part of the project, were finally successfully completed with exception
of one reservoir repair work in Colombo. The reservoir repair was also deleted because it became
impossible to complete the work before the credit closing date. In sum, most of the main physical works
were completed with some smaller components dropped. As a result, total water production per year
increased from 122,000 mnillion liters per year (rmly) in 1987 to 181,000 mly in 1995, and cumulative total
number of water connections rose from 97,000 to 166,000 during the same period.
3.3    Successful physical components included the provision of low cost sanitation facilities as well as the
rehabilitation and extension of the water supply systems in Colombo and Maharagama. With respect to low
cost sanitation, it should be noted that excellent results were produced, with construction of 7,650 latrines in
six months, by the shift of responsibility to the newly established Clean Settlements Project Unit (CSPU) of
MHC&PU in 1994. Consequently, this component was extended to allow more latrines, and, in total, more
than 26,000 latrines were constructed under the project in the low-income areas that cannot be served by
public sewerage. Initially, this component suffered poor progress when the National Housing Development
Agency (NHDA) was in charge. But after CSPU took over this component, this became one of the most
successful components of the project with beneficiary participation and community-driven implementation.
Regarding the water supply systems in Colombo and Maharagama, the main achievements included: a)
construction of transmission and distribution mains; b) scraping and relining of the existing transmission and
distribution mains; c) rehabilitation of the pumps, reservoir, and standpipes; and d) meter repair and
replacement.
3.4    Financial Obiectives: The project's financial objectives were only partially achieved with NWSDB's
deficient financial performance during the first several years of the project. From the start to December
1990, NWSDB's financial situation was in a critical condition. Although NWSDB improved efficiency in
billing and collection during this period, escalated electricity price and mandatory salary increase of the staff,
together with the Rs. 150 per month cap on domestic billings hampered NWSDB's efforts to imnprove the
financial situation. It was apparent that tariff enhancement could improve the financial situation of NWSDB,
but GOSL was unwilling to do so during this period despite IDA's repeated requests. After IDA officially
threatened to suspend disbursements in late 1990 due to non-compliance with the financial covenants, GOSL
took measures to improve the financial situation of NWSDB such as water tariff increase and implementation
of the NWSDB staff retrenchment. Since then, water tariffs were raised several times and finally NWSDB
complied with the fnancial covenants which required NWSDB to generate sufficient revenues to cover
operating expenses and working capital requirements from 1987 onwards and also to cover debt service or
depreciation, whichever is higher, from 1989 onwards.
3.5    The mnain achievements of the financial objectives included: a) efficiency improvement in billing and
collection including computerized billing (NWSDB's current collection rate is exceptionally high with about
95% of billings collected); b) implementation of tariff increase; c) removal of the Rs. 150 cap on domestic
water consumers; d) implementation of a new Rs. 5 monthly service charge; e) amendments of the NWSDB



-8-
Act to enable NWSDB to operate more effectively; f) authorization for NWSDB, without referral to GOSL,
to imnmediately increase its tariffs to reflect electricity price increases; g) implementation of rigorous
disconmection policy; and h) implementation of the NWSDB staff retrenchment.
3.6   Institutional Development Objectives: The project failed to achieve its institutional development
objectives. Although NWSDB implemented most of the institutional components and ostensibly benefited
from various training and technical assistance, some institutional problems still exist in NWSDB.
3.7    NWSDB implemented the following institutional components: a) consultancies to improve its
construct management capability and to assist project preparation; b) training on system maintenance and
operations and project management; c) purchase of vehicles and office equipment; d) introduction of the
Management Information System; e) introduction of the incentive schemes for its Commercial Unit; f)
transfer of responsibilities, from the Colombo Municipal Corporation (CMC), for management and
operations of the water distribution and sewerage systems in Colombo; g) amendment to the NWSDB Act to
enable NWSDB to operate more effectively; h) staff retrenchment; and i) completion of various studies.
3.8    However, there are still institutional problems within NWSDB which should have been addressed to
fully achieve the project's institutional development objectives. These problems include staffing problems
and project management capacity. Firstly, there are various staffing problems within NWSDB. For example,
it is still overstaffed. Although some staff retrenchment was implemented during the project, NWSDB failed
to reduce its staff to the desired target level. Initially, retrenchment of 1,640 NWSDB staff was planned, but
only about 620 staff were reduced between 1989 and 1992. After that, the current staff number again has
climbed to more than the 1989 staff level. Another imnportant staffing issue is a shortage of middle level
management and technical staff. This is the case especially with the leak detection and metering program.
Currently, about 83%  of the all NWSDB permanent employees is either clerical or unskilled workers.
Furthermore, difficulties of retaining experienced senior staff were reported from time to time. Secondly, as
indicated by the significant delays in implementation, NWSDB's project management capacity still remains
weak. Transfer of skills through technical assistance does not seem to have occurred during the project,
considering the NWSDB's request for TA extension at the very last year of implementation. This indicates
that NWSDB still had to rely on the international consultants after many years of TA. Further training on
planning, procurement, and project preparation and supervision is needed for NWSDB staff.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
4.1    Project completion was delayed by one year. The basic factors which contributed to the delay and
affected project implementation are discussed under three categories: a) factors beyond government control;
b) those subject to government control; and c) those subject to NWSDB's control.
4.2    Factors beyond government control: There was one major factor beyond government control which
affected the project: civil disturbances. Civil disturbances during the first several years of project
implementation caused the project delay in some project areas and, to the lesser extent, the deficient billing
and collection activities and the turnover of the NWSDB staff.
4.3    Factors subject to government control: There were four major factors subject to government control
which affected the project. They were shortage of counterpart funds, GOSL's cumbersome procurement
procedure, GOSL's lack of commitment to tariff increase, and lack of donor coordination. The shortage of
counterpart funds and GOSL's cumbersome procurement procedures contributed to the significant project
delay and cancellation of some components. GOSL's lack of commitment to tariff increase caused the



-9-
NWSDB's deficient financial performance during the initial and final years of implementation. The elections
held during project implementation made GOSL further reluctant to increase water tariff.
4.4    Lack of donor coordination also affected the project as some bilateral donors proposed investrents
in the sector which were not consistent with the project's objectives. This further contributed to the shortage
of counterpart funds for the project. In 1988, a French Government-financed proposal was made to augment
the Greater Colombo water supply by constructing a 40 million-gallons-per-day (mgd) expansion to the
Ambatale water treatment plant on a turnkey basis, and it was completed in 1993. In 1989, IDA learned that
the British ODA-fmnanced Hills Country water supply schemne was already under construction. While IDA
admitted that some additional supply to Colombo would undoubtedly be required, it strongly disagreed with
the Borrower's proceeding with such investments because (a) they were not consistent with GOSL's sector
policy which put priority on rehabilitation of the existing systems; (b) they would cause reductions of
counterpart budget for rehabilitation programs; and (c) such investments should not take place without a
proper Master Plan. IDA's project was formulated on the basis of GOSL's ten-year (1986-95) investment
program agreed with GOSL, IDA, and other donors. IDA was of the opinion that the program was being
threatened by the above new investments financed by French and British governments.
4.5    Factors subject to NWSDB's control: There were five major factors subject to NWSDB's control
which affected the project. They were insufficient or untimely preparation of initial designs, slow
procurement process, a shortage of experienced senior management and technical staff, inadequate project
management, and tendency to split up supply contracts in many small tenders. These factors all contributed
to the significant implementation delays.
D. Projed Swtanabilitv
5.1    Overall project sustainability is uncertain for three key reasons. First, NWSDB's institutional
capacity, especially in operation and maintenance and in project management, still remains weak. Second,
GOSL's commitment to cost recovery, especially timely tariff adjustment, is unclear. Third, NWSDB
remains subject to government control despite the project's attempt to increase its autonomy.
5.2    NWSDB's institutional capacity still remains weak. This is especially the case with its operation and
maintenance (O&   and project management capacity. NWSDB's O&M capacity is deficient as high rate of
unaccounted-for-water (about 50%) proves. Lack of technical staff, relatively high turnover of trained or
experienced staff, and fragmented responsibilities for O&M between NWSDB and CMC are all contributing
to NWSDB's weak O&M capacity. NWSDB must seriously combat to reduce the unaccounted-for-water.
Furthermore, project delays in implementation clearly shows NWSDB's weak project management capacity.
For the first several years of project implementation, NWSDB was struggling with detailed designs and
procurement due to its weak capacity in these fields.
5.3    GOSL's commitment to cost recovery mainly through water tariffs is unclear. GOSL failed to raise
water tariffs for the first several years of implementation despite IDA's repeated requests. GOSL raised the
tariffs to recover the recurrent cost only after IDA officially threatened to suspend disbursements in 1990.
Although GOSL raised the tariffs several times since 1991, tariff increases were not made during the last
two years of implementation. As a result, the ratio of billings to O&M costs declined from 1.61 in 1991 to
1.27 in 1995 although the ratio of collections to O&M costs during this period remained the same as
collection efficiency improved. The ultimate test of project sustainability is the ability of the government to
continuously mobilize resources through tariffs. Therefore, project sustainability is uncertain unless GOSL is
fully committed to tariff adjustment to achieve cost recovery. At the same time, increasing the operational
efficiency such as reducing unaccounted-for-water and addressing the overstaffing issue to reduce labor cost



- 10 -
is also very important for cost recovery. Furthermore, NWSDB's current financial status is treated extremely
leniently in presenting its financial statements. A more rigorous assessment, combined with more market-
oriented financing for future investments, would demonstrate that the status quo is not financially
sustainable.
5.4    Although the project attempted to increase NWSDB's autonomy by institutional and financial
strengthening, NWSDB remains subject to tight government control and frequent interventions. To address
these problemns, sector reform is necessary including private sector participation in financing and operating
water supply and sewerage services. Private sector involvement could lead to better services, but only if the
private investors and/or managers were permitted and expected to operate on a commercial basis within a
carefully designed regulatory framework.
E. IDA Performance
6.1   Identification: The IDA's performance in project identification was satisfactory, being
consistent with the government's priorities. The project design and implementation arrangements were
relatively simple with one key implementing agency (NWSDB).
6.2    Preparation: Preparation assistance by IDA was unsatisfactory, considering the current IDA
standard of project preparation. IDA failed to adequately assist the Borrower in project preparation,
and, therefore, the project was insufficiently prepared. Neither detailed designs for major physical
works nor TORs for technical assistance and studies were completed during project preparation. This
low quality of project preparation directly affected the project and led to delays in the early stage of
implementation. The delays contributed to the cancellation of some components and one-year extension
of implementation completion. However, unlike the current practices where detailed designs and
bidding documents for major works are required at the project preparation stage, a detailed preparation
period was incorporated into the original nine years of the project implementation instead.
6.3    Appraisal: Project appraisal by IDA was also unsatisfactory. IDA overestimated NWSDB's
implementation capacity at appraisal. Also, IDA was not able to identify the risk of insufficient
Borrower commitment to resource mobilization measures such as tariff increase. In SAR, it is
explicitly stated that the project would be within NWSDB's implementation capacity and that the
project would face no special risks. But, in reality, the project suffered significant delays partly due to
NWSDB's weak project management capacity. NWSDB had also suffered the financial deficiencies due
to GOSL's lack of commitment to tariff adjustment during the initial and final years of project
implementation.
6.4    Supervision: The project supervision by IDA  was generally satisfactory. The visits of
supervision missions were frequent and timely enough especially when the project was struggling with
the delays and financial problems during the first several years of implementation. Issues were
adequately identified and monitored.
6.5    There was a clear turning point of the project in August 1990 when IDA officially announced
to the Borrower its intention to suspend disbursements due to the non-compliance and broken
agreements with regard to NWSDB's financial situation. By December 1990, GOSL and NWSDB
finally took necessary measures to improve NWSDB's financial health, and, since then, the project
made good progresses till NWSDB's financial performance started to deteriorate again during the very
last years of implementation. Earlier intervention by IDA might have led to earlier actions by the
Borrower and, thereby, to a better financial position of NWSDB.



- 11 -
F. Borrower Performance
7.1    Preparation: Project preparation by the Borrower was deficient. The Borrower did not complete
either detailed designs for major physical works or TORs for technical assistance and studies during
project preparation. Therefore, some designs had to be changed and procurement process was very
slow during the initial years of the project, leading to significant delays in implementation. The
inadequate project preparation directly affected the project and caused the cancellation of some
components and one-year extension of implementation completion.
7.2   Implementation: Project implementation by the Borrower was very slow but basically satisfactory.
Although the project suffered serious problems such as implementation delays and financial weakness during
the first several years of implementation, major physical works for water supply in Colombo and
Maharagama as well as low cost sanitation units in Colombo were successfully constructed. Technical
assistance and various studies were also completed. Several financial and institutional measures were taken
(See Section B).
7.3    Covenant Compliance: NWSDB did not fully comply with two covenants with respect to NWSDB's
financial performance and the timely submission of audit reports. The financial covenant was finally
complied with after several years of non-compliance. The financial covenant required NWSDB to generate
sufficient revenues to cover operating expenses and working capital requirements from 1987 onwards and
also to cover debt service or depreciation, whichever is higher, from 1989 onwards. Although NWSDB
improved its efficiency in billing and collection during the initial years of the project, compliance with the
financial covenant remained in default during this period due to GOSL's unwillingness to take necessary
measures including water tariff enhancement. After the Bank officially threatened to suspend disbursements,
however, GOSL satisfactorily took necessary actions to improve NWSDB's financial performance. As a
result, the financial covenant was finally complied with in the last part of the project. Nevertheless, it should
be noted that there are a number of misleading features of NWSDB's accounts which cause its financial
perfornance to appear better than they are. Although these have been discussed, they have not been
addressed satisfactorily. The covenant with respect to audit reports was also in default from time to tirne.
7.4    Procurement: IDA's procurement guidelines for works, goods and services were generally followed
by the Borrower. However, long delays were experienced in the preparation of bidding documents and
recruitment of consultants due to NWSDB's weak capacity in bidding process and government's
cumbersome procurement procedures including approval processes by the Cabinet Tender Board.
G. Assessment of Outcome
8.1    The overall outcome of the project was unsatisfactory in view of such factors as the lack of
achievenents in the financial and institutional components and the significantly lower economic rate of return
than assumed at appraisal. Furthermore, considering ten years of implementation period including one year
extension, the project could have achieved more.
8.2    Economic Rate of Return (ERR): The project did not achieve its economic objectives. The
calculated economic rate of return at market labor rates was minus 9%. At appraisal, the project was
expected to have a return of 12% at market labor rates and 17% at shadow labor rates. A number of
reasons contribute to the inability of the project to meet its economic objectives. First, NWSDB did
not meet the targeted reduction in the amount of unbilled water, thereby reducing the stream of



- 12 -
revenues from the project. Unaccounted-for-water in Sri Lanka is quite high, at 53% compared to
Ecuador at 47% and Brazil at 30%. Second, reluctance to raise tariffs has further prevented NWSDB
from securing the revenues necessary to ensure satisfactory operation and maintenance and to meet the
costs of investment. Third, NWSDB was not able to achieve the improvements in efficiency and
reductions in cost that were expected at project appraisal. Expected levels of reduction in staff were not
met, leaving NWSDB with a high level of overstaffing (see Table 6). The level of overstaffing has
contributed to increasing the costs of operation. Finally, delays in implementing the project have
further reduced the stream of benefits that were expected from the project.
H. Future OQeration
9.1    The operation  plans, institutional arrangements and  estimated  annual operation  and
maintenance costs for the assets created under the project are appended to this report. In most cases,
the assets created or rehabilitated under the project are already in operation. Institutional arrangements
for operations already exist, and staff are mostly on board and generally familiar with their role and
functions.
9.2    Key indicators for project operation appear in Table 6. These indicators will continue to be
monitored. Adequate operation and maintenance of the assets created or rehabilitated under the project
will also need to be monitored during any future operation in this sector.
I. Kae Lsons Learned
10.1   The key lessons learned from this project relevant for other water supply and sanitation projects in
Sri Lanka and other countries are discussed below:
10.2   Ouality at Entry: Quality at entry seriously affects implementation. For civil works, adequate pre-
construction surveys, field investigations, detailed designs, and detailed phasing of each component must be
undertaken, to the extent possible, at preparation stage to avoid cost escalation caused by design changes and
to ensure timely procurement. For technical assistance and studies, detailed TORs should be completed prior
to appraisal so that reliable cost estimates and implementation plans are established. At appraisal, risks
related to project implementation and the capacity of inIplementing agency should carefully be assessed.
Proactive measures should be considered to mitigate the risks.
10.3   Streamlined Procurement: The Borrower's procurement processes need to be streamlined with more
authority at the executing agency level. NWSDB's capacity to deal with procurement related problems need
to be strengthened in order to avoid project implementation delays. Where appropriate, such measures as
contract packaging to make procurement processes simpler should be considered.
10.4   Early Intervention: Earlier intervention by IDA might have been more effective to improve the
financial situation of NWSDB. IDA officially threatened the Borrower to suspend disbursements after a long
history (about four years) of non-compliance with the covenants. Earlier intervention by IDA might have
been more effective to prevent delays in compliance and to further improve NWSDB's financial
performance.
10.5   More Appropriate Covenant: The current financial covenants may lead to the misunderstanding that
the only measure to recover recurrent cost is tariff adjustment. However, increasing operational efficiency



- 13 -
and reducing recurrent cost are also very important for cost recovery. These factors should be explicitly
incorporated into future financial covenants.
10.6   Donor Coordination: Donor coordination should be improved to better use the limited resources and
to ensure that each donor's efforts are consistent with the government's long-term sector strategies. The
government must be responsible for donor coordination if it wants donor assistance to be effective.
10.7   Sustainable Institutional Development: Performance based incentive schemes are necessary for
sustainable institutional development. Although NWSDB is overstaffed, it lacks technical and middle level
management staff. The project experienced some difficulty retaining trained or experienced staff. Without
incentive schemes such as merit system, retaining the staff trained under the project and recruiting competent
technical staff would be difficult. Also, incentive mechanisms to facilitate transfer of skills through TA
should be introduced.
10.8   Reorienting Training: In addition to technical and managerial skills, the personnel of implementing
agencies should have adequate community participation skills. Successful construction of low-cost sanitation
facilities only after CSPU assumed responsibility for this component clearly shows that comnunity
participation skills in CSPU facilitated the provision of latrines. Therefore, training programs should be
designed to reorient government officials and to improve their skills in community participation.
10.9   Priority issues to be addressed: The project's water supply component realizes a negative economic
rate of return (ERR) at market labor rates. With shadow labor rates, ERR is positive at 9%. NWSDB's
overstaffmg, inadequate tariff increase, high level of unaccounted-for-water, and project implementation
delay all contributed to the lower ERR than assumed at appraisal. These issues are all priority areas to be
seriously addressed in future water supply projects in Sri Lanka.
10.10 Need for Sector Reform: Considering the various deficiencies facing the water supply and sanitation
sector in Sri Lanka and the increasing demand for clean water and sanitation services, sector reform is
needed to improve the operational efficiency and meet the future challenge. The reform would include
among others: a) establishing an autonomous Water and Sewerage Agency for the Greater Colomnbo Area; b)
involving private sector; and c) redefining the NWSDB's role.
a) New Agencv for the Greater Colombo Area: An autonomous Water and Sewerage Agency
for the Greater Colombo Area (GCA) would be needed to improve and extend water supply and
sewerage services in the area. Both water supply and sewerage services are currently handled by
CMC in this area, but quite inefficiently and unsatisfactorily. GOSL has recently decided to hand
over the responsibility for sewerage to NWSDB as NWSDB will be in a better position to operate
the services more satisfactorily. However, this would separate the water and sanitation services in
the area, which is not advisable. Also, the current practice of cross-subsidization between GCA and
other parts of the country needs to be addressed. A possible solution would be to establish a new
autonomous agency responsible for both water and sewerage services for GCA.
b) Private Sector Participation: Private sector participation in fmancing and operating water supply
and sewerage services would increase the quality of services. Recent evidences in other countries
show that private sector participation in the sector could improve service reliability, productivity,
customer relations, and financial management. Furthermore, it might be imperative to tap private
capital given very limited resources in public sector. Therefore, involving private sector in water
supply and sanitation services should be seriously considered even if the above-mentioned agency
for GCA is established.



- 14 -
c) Future Role of NWSDB: With increasing plea for decentralized operation and private sector
participation in the sector, the role of NWSDB needs to be redefined. As a national agency, its
future role should increasingly focus on sector policy making, investment planning and assistance to
local authorities.
J. Evaluation of Program Objective Categories
11.1   Poverty reduction and other social objectives were not directly built into the project. However, the
low-income population benefited from the improved water supply systems and low-cost sanitation facilities
provided under the project.
11.2   The environmental objectives were only indirectly built into the project. Sanitation improvement in
the low-income area, which cannot be served by public sewerage system, appeared to contribute to some
environmental improvement.
11.3   The objectives of private sector development was not directly built into the project. The project was
only partly successful in developing some limited capacity of contractors and consultants in the private
sector.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABIULTATION PROJECT
(CR. 1700-CE)
Part II - Statisdcal Tables
Table 1: Sunmmarv Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies        Ol              0              0               ER
Sector Policies               El              0              0               n
Financial Objectives          O               1              a               o
Institutional Development     O               O              0               El
Physical Objectives           1               E              E               E
Poverty Reduction             O               E              E               0
Gender Concerns               O               E              E               0
Other Social Objectives       E       El             El                      0
Environmental Objectives      0               E              E               E
Public Sector Management      0               0              E               E
Private Sector Development    0               0              E               E
Other (specify)               E               E              E               0
B. Project Sustainability       Likely                Unlikelv               Uncertain
O                     E                       0
Highly
C. Bank Performance           Satisfactory          Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                0                      0                       E
Preparation Assistance        E                      E                       0
Appraisal                     0                      E                       0
Supervision                   0                      0                       E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance       Satisfactory          Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                   O                      E                       0
Implementation                0                      0R                      El
Covenant Compliance           E                      E                       0
Operation (if applicable)     0                      0                       E
Highly                                        Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome      Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
El             E               0              El



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose                 Year of         Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. First Water Supply   To improve water supply in Colombo and    1977    Completed in 1984
Project (Cr. 709-CE)    other towns
2. Second Water Supply    a) To improve water supply and sewerage
and Sewerage Project (Cr.  services in Colombo and other towns;
1041-CE)                b) To strengthen NWSDB's financial and    1980    Completed in 1987
operational performance; and
c)  To  improve  the  institutional
organization of NWSDB                       .
3. Municipal Management  a) To support GOSL's sector policy
Project (Cr. 1697-CE)   adjustment process; and                1986    Completed in 1995
b) To strengthen the capacity of
Ministries for municipal management
Following Operations
1. Clean Settlements    a) To provide basic services to low-
Project                 income   communities  in   Western
Provincial  Council,  particularly  in
Colombo, through extensive community
participation and incorporation of social      Under preparation
and economic development;
b) To extend and accelerate titling of land
to low-income households; and
c) To improve the capabilities of local
govenmnents and sector institutions ____________
2. Fourth Water Supply    a) To support GOSL's sector reform; and
and Sewerage Project    b) To  make major investments in                Under preparation
sanitation in Colombo



Table 3: Proiject Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    |      Date Planned         | Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                                                          1984
Preparation                                                             1985
Appraisal                            November, 1985            November/Decemnber 1985
Negotiations                           April, 1986                March 26-28, 1986
Board Presentation                     May 6, 1986                  May 15, 1986
Signing                                                             July 24, 1986
Effectiveness                        October 22, 1986             December 18, 1986
Midterm Review                            N.A.                          N.A.
Project Completion                    June 30, 1995                 June 30, 1996
Loan/Credit Closing                   June 30, 1995                 June 30, 1996



Table 4: LoanlCredit Disbursements: Cumulative. Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
IDA Financial Year   Appraisal Esfimate      Actual        Actual as % of
l___________________  _________________    E stirnate
1987                1.0                1.28             128.0
1988                4.6                3.73              81.1
1989                11.1               6.92              50.6
1990                18.5               9.04              48.9
1991               25.0                11.03             44.1
1992               30.0                21.93             73.1
1993               33.7                27.50             81.6
1994               36.1                34.81             96.4
1995               37.0                38.66            104.5
1996               37.0                42.35            114.5
1997               37.0                44.67            120.7
Date of Final
Disbursement         October 17, 1996



Table 5: Kev Indicatois for Project hnplementation
I. Key implemertation       FY                                                                      Upto
indicators in SAR       87      88      89      90      91      92      93      94       95     April  Remarks
96
1. Total water
production per year      122     138     147     148     151     153     154      167     181      59
(x 1000 nily)                       I_I                                      I        _
2. Water quality         0.4     0.4     0.4     0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4     0.4      0.4  At
(chlorine residual)                                                                                     distribution
3. Total metered water
consumption per year     59       69      74      74      77      78      79      89       96      33
(x 1000 mnly)
4. Cumulative total
water connections at     97      111     115     122     128     134     143     153      166     170
end of year (x 1000)
5. Cumubtive total
number of public       4349    4349   4349    4349   4349    4594   4608    4496    4498    4500
standpipes at end of
year
6. Number of new       3751    7452    3774   7402    5790    6511   10825    9753   13088    4110
meters installed        _
7. Number of meters     728     795      802     825     961     972    1011    1174    1251      425
repaired or replaced
8. Number of major         -       -       -    475      473     532     564     840    1160      363
leaks repaired
9. Cumulative number
of new sewer             136    285      437     615     795    1004    1217    1337    1517    1527
connections at end of
year                     _
10. Cumulative number
of low cost individual     -   1210   2510    3280    3280    3280    3280   3450    8250   26210
sanitation units installed
11. Cumulative number
of communal low cost       -       5      13      13      13      13      13       13      13      188
sanitation facilities
installed                                                    .
H.  Modified
indicators
1. Total unmetered
water conetions at     6904    6139    5396    6159    6014    6292    4924    4814    4592    4581
end of year                                              _                    _
2. 
III. Other indicators                                               _                   _
2.                        e         -____ ______ ______ ______ ______ _-- ---         -       -       -



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operaton
I. Key operating             FY
indicators in SAR        87     88      89      90     91      92     93      94      95     96       Remarks
1. Number of permanent
employees of NWSDB                   _                                         _    _
a) Management                                           52      53      52     57      61     58
b) Engineers                                           221    252    269    272    297    284
c) Accountants                                           39     46      48     45      46      45
d) Technical                                 _____     657    710    762    800    857    902
e) Clerical                             _             2407   2543   2629   2770   2927   3009
i) Unskilled                                          3338   3014   2990   2850   3219   3215
TOTAL                                   7300   7465   6714   6618   6750   6794   7407   7513
2. Average cost per
10,000 liters of water      -  16.16   16.85   19.76  25.42  28.76  35.25  40.26  41.25             in Rs.
delivered              __    _            __                                    _
3. Average water
revenue per 10,000 liters   -  41.56  39.83   84.62  93.03   95.00  97.03   110.6  98.63            in Rs.
4. Quick current ratio      -       -      -   0.81    1.28    1.23    1.12   2.03   2.08          ______
5. Average age of                                                                                   Age of debt
customer receivables        -       -      -    7.7    7.8    5.5    4.1    4.4    3.8             in bill months
6. Collecton efficiency   72      84      74     80      75      95     95      91     96           %
7. Debt to equity ratio     -   0.29   0.31    0.29   0.33    0.32   0.28   0.33   0.36         X               X
8. Debt service ratio       -       -      -       -   0.28   0.36   0.51    0.26   0.34
9. Working ratio                -          -   1.31    1.93    1.93    1.74   2.72   2.81
10. Rate of return on
revalued assets             -                                         0.02   0.02   0.02
II.  Modified indicators                                           _                               _
2.                                                  _       _               _                 =
III. Other indicators        =       =      =       =       =       =              =_=_=
1.                     __                                                            .
2.          =                  _     =        _=



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                at appraisal/redefined         Status                Impact of study
1.   Canal Rehabilitation Study  To identify possible          Completed        A project to rehabilitate the canal systemn
improvements and to recommnend                 as per the recommendation of the study
rehabilitation measures for the                is being implemented now by the Sri
canals in the Greater Colombo                  Lanka Land Reclamation and
Area to form the basics for a                  Development Corporation with the
fully operational drainage                     assistance from the Japanese
_ _______________________  system.                                         Government as well as GOSL.
2.   Operation and Control       To evaluate the existing       Completed       Actions have been taken to implement
Review of Greater Colombo   operations of the head works                  sorne of the recommendations of the
Water Supply               transmission and distribution                  study including reduction of
systems in the Greater Colombo                 unaccounted-for-water, rehabilitation of
Area, and to recommend                         head works, and improvements in the
measures to increase efficiency.               distribution and transmission.
3.   Wash Water Reuse Study      To analyze waste water use at  Completed       The study confirned that it is
Kalatuwawa, Labugama and                       economically feasible to recover waste
Ambatale treatment works, and                  water at Kalatuwawa and Ambatale. But
to determine whether it is       .             so far no action has been taken to
economical to reduce water                     implement the recommendations.
losses.
4.   Rural Water Supply Sector    To develop sound sector policies   Cornpleted  Based on the recommnendation of the
Study                      and an investment strategy for                 study, the new Rural Water Supply
the rural water supply and                     Section has been formed within
sanitation sector.                             NWSDB to address the sector issues and
to coordinate with other agencies
working on rural water supply and
sanitation.
5.   Greater Colombo Water       To review the 1971 Master Plan   Completed     Some of the recommendations of the
Supply Master Plan Update    and to recommend appropriate                 study are being implemented now with
changes, taking into account the              the assistance of OECF and the French
population change, urban and                   Government. These include the
industrial growth, environmental               rehabilitation of the existing Ambatale
factors, etc.                                  Treatment Plant and study of a new
l________________________                      treatment plant on the Kalu River.
6.   Non Revenue Water Study     To develop the scope of work   Corpleted       As per the recommendations of the
and a detailed action plan for the             study, actions have been taken, by
Non Revenue Work Program for                   NWSDB, to implement the Program
the next 3 to 5 years.                         during last two years. But the progress
achieved so far has not been satisfactory
due to weak institutional capabilities.
Now an action plan is being prepared to
implement the Program with a
Contractor as recommended in the
=             ._                     _ _ _ _  _ __ _ _  _ _ _ __    _ _ _ _  _   study.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)     Actual/latest estimate (US$
million)           l
Local      Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Item              costs        costs       Total      costs      costs     Total
1. Civil Works             13.5          2.4        15.9      26.11       7.44      33.55
2. Materials & Equipment    8.6         11.8        20.4       2.01      29.28      31.29
3. Design, Training, TA, etc.  3.0       4.0        7.0        2.32       6.57       8.89
4. Contingencies            12.2         9.3        21.5        -          -          -
TOTAL                       37.3         27.5       64.8       30.44      43.29     73.73
Table 8B: Project Fbiancing
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)   Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Local      Foreign                   Local      Foreign
Source            costs       costs        Total       costs        costs       Total
|IBRD/IDA                  9.5        27.5        37.0         5.70        40.18       45.88
Domestic contribution     27.8          -         27.8        24.74         3.11       27.85
TOTAL                     37.3        27.5        64.8        30.44        43.29       73.73



Table 9: Economic Return and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return         Appraisal Estimate        Actual (at Final Development
Water Supply Component         12% (market labor rates)       -9% (market labor rates)
17% (shadow labor rates)       9% (shadow labor rates)
,                                              s              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 10: Stahts of Legal Covenants
Original        Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement   Section           type         Status          Date            Date                 Description of Covenant                             Comments
Project         2.01 (b)         5            C         06/30/87 and                    NWSDB shall implement an operational action plan,  A revised operatioIal plan was agreed and
Agreement                                                 annually                      update such plan annually and agree any changes  revised annually.
thereafter                    with IDA.
2.02          5             C                                         NWSDB shaD procure goods and works, and  All contracts for goods, works, and services
employ consultants as per schedule.            were let, although with delays.
2.03          5             C                                         NWSDB shall carry out obligations of sections 9.03-  In compliance.
9.08 of general conditions (re: insurance, use of
goods and services, plans, schedules, records,
reports, etc.)
2.04          2             C                                         NWSDB  shall perform  its obligations under  Agreement signed on 09/15/86.
subsidiary loan agreement.
2.05          5             C                                         NWSDB  shall exchange views with IDA  on  In compliance.
progress of the project and performance under this
l                                       and subsidiary loan agreement.
3.01          2             C                                         NWSDB shall operate with sound administrative,  In compliance
financial engineering and public utiliies practice
under supervision of qualified and experienced
nmanagement and competent staff.
3.02          5             C                                         NWSDB  shall operate and maintain its plant  In compliance.
machinery, equipment and other property through
sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
3.03          5             C                                         NWSDB  shall  take  out adequate  insurance  In compliance.
consistent with appropriate practice.
4.01 (a)        I            C                                         NWSDB  shall  maintain  adequate  accounting  In compliance.
records.
4.01 (b)        I           CD         09/30/88 and                    Audit of NWSDB's  accounts  and  financial  Reporting was delayed from time to time.
annually                      statements due to IDA not later than 9 months after
thereafter                    end of FY.
4.01 (c)        I           CD         09/30/88 and                    NWSDB  shall maintain  separate  records and  Reporting was delayed from time to time.
annually                      accounts of SOEs, and provide IDA with separate
_ thereafter                     audit opinion with Item 4.0 1(b) above.



. .         . .                                 Original          Revised
Covenant    Present    Fulfilment    Fulfillment
Agreement   Section              11pe          Status           Date              Date                   Description of Covenant                                 Comments
4.02 (i)         2             CP        FY 87 onwards                       NWSDB shall produce sufficient revenues to meet  Complied with only after IDA threatened to
operating   expenses   and   working   capital  suspend disbursements due to the long history
requiremnents.                                     of non-compliance.
4.02 (ii)        2             CP        FY 89 onwards                       NWSDB shall produce sufficient revenues to meet  Complied with only after IDA threatened to
operating expenses, working capital requirements  suspend disburserents due to the long history
___________                                       ___________  _____________   and the greater of debt service or depreciation.           of non-compliance.
Covenant types:                                                                   Present stauis:
I =  Accoustauits                    8  =   Indigenous people                  C   = covenamt complied with
2 =  Fmanaial petfomuanceievenue     9  =   Monirnng, review, and reporting     CD = complied wkh after delay
generation fn,m bfwiciaries
3 =  Flow and utilization of pmject  10 =   Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partiafly
funds                                  by categories 1-9
4 =  Counterpast fundirg             11 =   Sectora or cross-seAl budgetary or   NC = not complied with
odier resource alication
5 =  Managemen aspects of the pfoject  12 =   Sectoral or crossecoDl policy/
or executig agency                     itgulator,ntyiatonal action
6 =  Environmental covenats          13 =   9ther
7 =  Invokmuwy reseenient
39)



Table 11: ComdiAMce with Operational Manual Statenents
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.  N.A.                                       N.A.
3.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned            Revised             Actual
Stage of
project cycle         Weeks               Weeks               Weeks
Preparation
Appraisal                                                              14.2
Negotiations through
Board approval                                                _
Supervision                   90.0                                    130.9
Completion                                                              7.0
TOTAL                                             _



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-
Month/       Number        Days in      staff skills    tation        ment        Types of
Stage of project cycle     year       of persons       field     represerted      status      objectives    problems
Identification/Preparation                                                                 _
Appraisal                Nov/Dec 85         4            25           MNA,
STE, FNA
Supervision                May 86           1             10           STE
Aug 86          3             14          MNA,
STE, FNA
Nov/Dec 86        3             13          MNA,
STE, FNA
Mar 87          3             13          MNA,
STE, FNA
May 87          2             12       MNA, STE
Sep 87          2             12       FNA, STE
Jan/Feb 88        2             10       FNA, STE
Oct88           2            13        FNA,STE
Jun/Jul 89        3            13        FNA, STE,         2             2
OPS
Mar 90           1            6            STE            3             3            LC
Jul 90          1             6           STE            3             3 _          LC
Sep 90          3             13       STE, FNA,          3             3            LC
PCO
May 91          2             1 1       STE, FNA          2             2
Jun 91          3             13       STE, FNA           2             2
Oct 91          3            12        STE, FNA           2            2
Oct/Nov 92        2             12        STE, FNA          2             2
Jul 93          2            13        STE, ECM          2             2
Dec 93          2             11       STE, ECM           I             1
Sep 94          4             8           STE,            I             I
Jun/Jul 95        2            12        STE, MFS          I             1
Completion                  Jul 96          3             6        STE, MFS,                        -
UES
Total                                                    258
Key:
MNA      : Management Analyst
FNA       Financial Analyst
STE       Sanitary Engineer
OPS       Operations Specialist
PCO       Procurement Officer
ECM      :Economist
WSA      : Water & Sanitation Adviser
MFS      : Municipal Finance Specialist
UES      : Urban Environmental Specialist
LC       : Compliance with Legal Covenants
FP       : Financial Performance
PR       : Procurement Progress
PM       : Project Management Performance



Aedix A
IMlPIJEMENTATION COMIPIETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANIrrATON REHABUITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1700-CE)
Mission's Aide-Memoim (with Operation Plan)






The World Bank                                  1818 H Street N.W.     (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                Cable Address: INDEVAS
August 26, 1996
Mr.G.A.K. Gunasekera
Secretary Housing, Construction & Public Utilities
Sethsiripaya
Battaramula, Sri Lanka
Dear Sir,
Third Sri Lanka Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. I 700-CE)
I would like to thank you and the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), as well as
the management of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) for the
courtesies and cooperation extended to the July 1996 IDA mission for the above
referenced project. We endorse the findings and recommendations of the mission as
incorporated in its Aide-Memoire dated July 12, 1996 which it left in Colombo.
We would like to congratulate you and the staff of the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board on the completion of the above project. The mission reported that nearly
all works have been completed satisfactorily and the credit proceeds have been fully
utilized. We are particularly pleased with the achievements of the Low-cost Sanitation
Program, executed by the Clean Settlements Unit in your Ministry, successfully raising
appropriate sanitation behavior with low-income households in peri-urban areas and
involving the beneficiaries in the financing and implementation of latrine facilities. The
program has been so successful that demand has been much higher then what the program
could deliver. It would be unfortunate to lose the momentum generated by this pilot
project, both in terms of demand and capacity/experience built at the Unit. Therefore, I
would kindly request you to find ways to continue this prograrn under regular
government funding for the sector.
RCA 248423. M WUI 64145 Q3 FAX (202) 477-6391



Mr. Mr. G.A.K. Gunasekera                  -2-                    August, 4, 1995
As you know, IDA's development objectives for the project included the financial
viability of the sector institutions and the economic sustainability of service provision.
Charging appropriate water rates, reflecting the economic cost of the service, as well as
efficient and cost-effective delivery of services are essential. After a number of years of
regular tariff adjustments the water charges have not been increased since January 1994.
This situation has put the financial situation of NWSDB at risk and made the compliance
with the Credit's financial covenants for FY96 marginal. This has been for some time a
concern for IDA as well as other donors in the sector and, if not corrected, would be an
impediment to future IDA lending to the sector. Therefore, it is essential that the
Government will enable NWSDB to raise its tariffs annually, starting January 1997, on
the basis of the Board's real financial position (after adjustment for the inaccuracies
pointed out by the mission) and appropriate financial forecasting mechanisms.
Sincerely,
Marie A. Robinson
Chief
Infrastructure Services Division
Department 1
South Asia Region
CC:  Mr. T.B. Madugalle, Chairman, National Water Supply and Drainage Board,
Ratmalana, Sri Lanka
Mr. Bimal Jalan, Executive Director, World Bank, Washington D.C.



SRI LANKA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1700 - CE)
IDA FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION - JULY 8-12, 1996
AIDE MEMOIRE
(Colombo, July 12, 1996)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    An IDA mission consisting of Messrs. Wiebe Moes (Mission Leader/Sanitary Engineer),
Graeme Lee (Municipal Finance Specialist) and Toshiaki Keicho (Urban Planner) visited Sri
Lanka in conjunction with other assignments during July 8 to 12, 1996 to carry out the
supervision on the completion of the above project and to initiate the preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report. The mission held discussions with officials of the Ministry
of Housing, Construction and Public Utilities (MHC&PU) and National Water Supply and
Drainage Board (NWSDB).
2.    The mission appreciates the courtesies and cooperation extended to it during this visit.
The findings and recommendations of this mission, as incorporated in this Aide Memoire, are
subject to review and confirmation by IDA management.
B. STATUS ON THE CREDIT
3.    The credit closed on June 30, 1996 and NWSDB is now in the process of finalising its
payments on various construction contracts, LCS program and technical assistance contract
during the next 4 months. As of June 20, 1996 credit utilization has been SDR.30.4 million and
the undisbursed amount is SDR.1.7 million. The undisbursed amount is approximately
SLRs.135.62 million for which NWSDB intends to submit withdrawal applications for the
following expenditures, thereby fully utilizing the available credit proceeds:
Contract 3/1                         equivalent SLRs. 62.72 million
Contract 7/2                                          1.60 million
Contract 7/4A                                         1.80 million
Contract 9/1                                         25.60 million
Contract 34/3                                         1.20 million
Low Cost Sanitation Program                          35.50 million
Construction Management Technical Assistance          7.20 million
Total                                               135.62 million



2
C. STATUS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Water Supply Project Component
4.    The mission was informed that all civil work contracts have been completed successfully
except for the scraping and lining contract 9/1. The contractor's claim on contract 3/1 has been
resolved and final payments will be made shortly. Contracts 7/2 and 7/4A have been completed
in time and some minor payments are still outstanding. Payments for road reinstatement under
contracts 9/1, 7/2 and 3/1, amounting to some Rs. 16 million, will be made shortly to RDA and
other agencies/local bodies.
5.    Procurement problems with the award of contract 9/1 (Scraping and lining) and contract
management problems with the contractor resulted in significant implementation delays, and was
the major reason for the extension of the credit closing date. Despite assurances by the
contractor earlier this year to complete the works in time, the mission was informed that
NWSDB intends to cancel about 25% of the contract works that could not be completed by the
credit closing date. However, the scraping and lining of all transmission mains have been
finalised as agreed with the previous mission. The mission supports NWSDB's efforts to cancel
the rehabilitation of a limited number of distribution mains from the contract without
compensation to the contractor.
Low Cost Sanitation Program
6.    The Clean Settlement Unit at MHC&PU managed to successfully complete 22,930
sanitation units and one shallow sewer system, benefitting a total of 23,105 families in lower
income areas. This program has been extremely successfull in raising awareness of appropriate
sanitation behavior with poor households and mobilizing contribution to the cost of the facilities
(2/3 of the total latrine costs have been met by the beneficiaries). The program has been so
successful that demand has been much higher then what the program could deliver. The mission
has advised MHC&PU that it would be unfortunate to lose the momentum generated by this pilot
project, both in terms of demand and capacity/experience built at the Unit, and that the Ministry
should find the means to continue this program.
7.    The mission noted that about 1/3 of the total cost of the program (approximately Rs.23
million) has not yet been reimbursed to some 9,000 beneficiaries that have completed their
sanitation facilities. The Clean Settlements Unit was urged to make the final payments within
the next three months and a program has been agreed upon. The mission requested NWSDB to
make the required funds available the Unit as soon as possible.



3
8.    NWSDB agreed to carry out a physical audit of the LCS program on a random basis and
inform IDA on the results. The mission liaised with Mr. Charles Pendley of the Regional Water
and Sanitation Group for South Asia. It was agreed that RWSSG-SA would carry out a separate
evaluation of the program to document in more detail the community management aspects,
achievements and impact of the program as well as lessons learned. The findings of the
evaluation will be discussed with MHC&PU and a copy of the report will be made available to
SA1IN.
D. NWSDB FINANCES
9.    The financial information provided to the mission by the NWSDB for 1995 appears to
misstate the Board's true financial position. The Board's data indicates that a net profit was
earned in 1995 of Rs 185 million. However, a number of points mentioned by the previous
mission, which could have a material adverse impact on these results, remain to be addressed. In
particular, the following was noted:
a) the accounts continue to show substantial amount of capital expenditure (Rs. 16
billion) as work in progress. This may result in depreciation being understated by as
much as Rs 250 million;
b) while owing about Rs. 1.4 billion in arrears of debt service to GOSL, the Board has Rs
1.6 billion invested, mostly in Treasury Bonds, on which it is earning interest income in
excess of Rs 200 million. Using this investment to pay its arrears would reduce its
income (and profit) accordingly;
c) repairs and maintenance expenditure has reduced from about Rs. 80 million in 1992 to
Rs. 45 million in 1995. Considering the significant assets owned by the Board this may
suggest inadequate maintenance of the existing facilities and consequent deterioration of
its assets as well as quality of its services.
10.   Either of the first two points is greater than the profits being shown as earned. Taken
together, totaling about Rs.500 million, they represent the equivalent of approximately a 30%
tariff increase. GOSL has not approved a tariff increase in either 1995 or 1996. Although
revised financial results for 1996 are not yet available, based upon budget figures it is estimated
that adjusting for the above items would similarly eliminate 1996 profits.
11.  In terms of the Credit's financial covenant, the Board's data indicates this has been met in
1995. Adjustments to depreciation and reduction in investment income as described above
would make this outcome marginal. The Board agreed to address these concerns in detail when
preparing its 1996 accounts. It also agreed to prepare a financial forecasting model, to allow the
Board's financial position to be forecast using a variety of different "what if' assumptions.



4
12.   The mission would support further strengthening of the Board's financial management.
Presently, the most current financial data relates to the end of March, 1996 --- which is too dated
to be of assistance for management purposes. Measures to improve this performance, including
decentralization of accounting, strengthening the financial function by addition of AGM posts,
use of PC-based accounting systems, and additional staff training are being considered by the
Board.
E. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
13.   The mission spend ample time with NWSDB to discuss the Bank's requirements for
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the objectives of the exercise and
the obligations of the Borrower to prepare its part of the report. The mission provided advice and
support to the Borrower for preparing its contribution to the ICR. Work is underway to collect
the statistical data and other information necessary to prepare the ICR.
14.   The mission reviewed with NWSDB the major issues it has been identified that have
posed problems during the implementation of the project and should be focused upon during the
evaluation of the project. The key issues concern: (a) readiness of the project at credit
effectiveness in terms of timely project preparation, adequate investigations during design stage
and significant design changes during implementation; (b) elaborate procurement procedures
including approval processes for tender documents, prequalification of consultants, contractors
and suppliers, tender evaluation and the role of the Cabinet Tender Board in all these preparation
stages; (c) tendency to split up equipment supply contracts in many small tenders which require
substantial administrative monitoring with the Bank as well as the Borrower; (d) timely and
adequate availability of counterpart funds; (e) experience with international and local contractors
and the consequences for contract packaging; and (f) role of the construction management
advisors.
15.   As part of ICR preparation, the Borrower is required to develop and present an
acceptable action plan for the operational phase of the project which ensures continued
operations of the assets created under the project. NWSDB agreed to submit to IDA the draft
action plan by the end of July, 1996. The action plan should at least set out:
a) the required institutional arrangements and staffing needs. Also, whether these have
already been met, or the target dates by which these will be in place;
b) estimates of the additional O&M costs resulting from the operation of such assets, and
source of such funding; and
c) the key physical, operational and financial indicators for monitoring the performance
of these assets and assessing their development impact.



5
16.   To enable the ICR to be completed within 6 months of the credit closing date (Dec. 31,
1996), the mission and the Borrower agreed on the following schedule for ICR preparation:
*  Borrower submits the remaining statistical data to IDA:  by Jul. 31, 96
*  IDA submits a draft ICR to Borrower for comment:     by Sep. 15, 96
*  Borrower submits to IDA its draft evaluation report  by Sep. 15, 96
*  IDA submits to Borrower comments on draft report     by Oct. 15, 96
*  Borrower submit its comments on IDA's draft ICR:     by Oct. 15, 96
*  Borrower submits to IDA its final evaluation:        by Nov. 15, 96
*  IDA finalizes the ICR:                               by Dec. 31, 96
F. OTHER ISSUES
17.   The mission discussed with MHC&PU the progress with the formulation of reforms in
the water and sanitation sector as initiated by IDA during the July 1995 mission and subsequent
donor conference in October 1995 and privatization workshop in January 1996. The mission
discussed the recommendations by the Secretaries committee concerning (a) the establishment of
an independent Greater Colombo Water and Sewerager Authority and the scope of private sector
participation; (b) handing over operational responsibility of other urban schemes from NWSDB
to the local authorities; (c) changing from a national tariff to a scheme specific or regional tariff
whereby the domestic consumer would pay charges that reflect better the actual cost of the
service provided; (d) greater user participation in development and implementation of rural water
supply schemes by the various agencies involved in the sub-sector as well as better coordination
between the agencies; and (e) establishment of a separate department within MHC&PU for
policy, planning and monitoring of the sector.
18.   The mission informed GOSL that it has submitted a request for funding (IDF grant) for
carrying out a study for the preparation of institutional reform in the sector and identifying
opportunities for private sector participation, particularly for the Colombo metropolitan area.
The mission submitted a draft Terms of Reference for this study for review and comments by
GOSL. It was agreed that comments would be sent to IDA not later than July 31, 1996. Initial
observations by MHC&PU and NWSDB during the discussions centered around the future role
of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board, the process and implications of changing the
national water tariff and the need for subsidies during the transitional period to absorb shocks.
Provided that the funding request is approved shortly, it is expected that the study will start early
September 1996 and will take about 4 months to complete.
L:Asi\wssrp\nwsju;96.am



(t



SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
IDA Credit 1700 CE
PLAN FOR THE OPERATIONAL PHASE
1.   GREATER COLOMBO WATER SUPPLY
National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWS&DB) is responsible
for the operation and maintenance of Greater Colombo water supply
(which serves Wattala, Mabole, Mahara, Peliyagoda, Colombo,
Kolonnawa, Kotikawatta, Mulleriyawa, Kotte, Maharagama, Dehiwala-
Mt. Lavinia, Moratuwa and Panadura) including headworks,
transmission and distribution except the maintenance of
distribution within Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) where the
task is performed by the council staff themselves under a
contract with the NWS&DB where the salaries of maintenance staff
and other expenses, including materials used for O&M are supplied
by the Water Board. Since almost all the work done within the
Greater Colombo area out of IDA Funds are mainly upgrading and
rehabilitation of the existing system there has been no
appreciable increase in the staff both within the NWS&DB and CMC
except for Maharagama Water Supply where a complete new system
has been installed.
Estimated cost of recurrent expenditure for the year 1996 is Rs.
573 million for the Greater Colombo Water Supply. Consumers are
billed to collect revenue by the NWS&DB and it is expected to
collect some Rs. 1,056 million during 1996. Since 1991 sufficient
funds have been generated from adjustment of tariff to cover not
only direct O&M cost but also debt service, interest and capital
repayment or depreciation whichever is higher commensurate with
the covenant requirements of the IDA Credit 1700 CE.
There are stand posts garden taps and direct consumer connections
in the system. Majority of the connections are domestic consumers
but there are considerable numbers of institutional, commercial
hotel, shipping and stand post connections in the system. Number
of total connections as in April 1996 is 170, 360 while there are
4500 standposts within the system. Number of connections which
were 97362 in 1987 is now around 170360 indicating a 100% in
increase in connections during the project period from 1986 to
1996.
Water quality is being monitored at various locations of the
system including headworks, transmission and distribution both
by bacteriological and physical-chemical means to ensure that the
water delivered to the consumers are within acceptable standards.
Some 15 million cubic metres of water is produced at three
headworks (Labugama, Kalatuwawa & Ambatale) of the system per
month. Total water that is accounted or metered per month is
around 7.5 million cubic meters or so, indicating a UFW figure
of 50% for the Greater Colombo Water Supply System.



2.   MAHARAGAMA WATER SUPPLY
Maharagama Water Supply which has been constructed under the
project is maintained by the NWS&DB as a sub unit of Greater
Colombo Water Supply. The scheme was commissioned in 1994. Some
50 skilled personals are assigned for the work including some 40
unskilled persons. Still some 10 percent of skilled personals and
25 percent of unskilled personals are to be recruited. Action is
underway by the NWS&DB to recruit those personals early. Total
O&M cost for 1996 for the works is Rs. 19,927,200. Consumers are
billed according to a tariff and NWS&DB performs the task.
The supply to the consumers are on 24 hour basis and some 5500
connections have already been given. 30% of the population is
served with water in the area. Still some areas are not covered
by the distribution but most of those areas are addressed under
Stage III distribution which is being implemented now. However,
a considerable percentage of people have their own supply through
shallow wells. There are no public standposts in the scheme and
it is the policy to have the system without standpost to minimise
wastage. Daily consumption of water per day is around 4000 cubic
metres per day and it is estimated a per capita consumption of
146 lpcd.
3.   COLOMBO SEWERAGE
Colombo Sewerage System which covers Colombo Municipal Council
(CMC) administrative limits consists with 13 sewage pumping
stations, 234 km of sewer mains diameter ranging from 150 mm to
1500 mm and two sea outfalls at Wellawatta and Mutwal which have
been constructed under Second Sri Lanka Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (IDA Credit 1041 CE). The system has been maintained by
the CMC upto mid 1996. However, due to institutional problems
within the CMC and on the recommendation of IDA, NWS&DB has taken
over the O&M of the system from July 09, 1996.
However, for an initial period of two years the system will be
maintained by CMC even from July 09, 1996 on a service contract
with the NWS&DB. A separate branch has been established within
the NWS&DB to execute above work under a Deputy General Manager
and they now maintain sewerage systems at Kolonnawa and Dehiwala-
Mt. Lavinia. It is estimated that the 1996 O&M expenditure for
CMC sewerage system is around Rs. 90 million. CMC contribution
is Rs. 70 million while NWS&DB will contribute Rs. 20 million.
There has not been any changes in staff levels within the CMC due
to the additional work out of the project since those funds were
utilised mainly to rehabilitate existing system plus some road
reinstatement after sewer laying under Credit 1041 CE. It is also
proposed to fund the future O&M, both by the CMC and NWS&DB in
the ratio of 7:2 out of their general reserves. Still no concrete
action has been taken to levy a sewerage tariff from these
customers. The number of sewer connections within the CMC is
around 42,700 (domestic - 32,400 connections, commercial/other -
10,300 connections) Out of the total population of   745,000
(1992), 550,000 are served by sewers while others are served by
on site facilities, which represent a 74% coverage with water
borne sewerage.



Non availability of funds for installing laterals in Kolonnawa
and Dehiwala/Mount Lavinia has been the biggest drawback in
giving house connections.Cabinet approval has been requested for
funds for urgent relabilitation works amounting to Rs 50 million
annually till 1999.
4.   COLOMBO LOW COST SANITATION
Under phase I of the project some 3280 families were provided
with household latrines connected to shallow sewer systems and
520 families with communal latrines connected to common septic
tanks. Under phase II & III some 22930 household latrines and a
shallow sewer system benefitted to 175 families were implemented.
In all above cases no additional funds are required for O&M since
either families benefitted or CMC sewerage staff will maintain
the system. A health education programme has been conducted by
the Clean Settlement Programme Unit (CSPU) to convince the
beneficiary families about the proper maintenance and benefits
accumulated for them from those actions. Some guidelines
including  handouts   are  distributed  by  CSPU  among  the
beneficiaries. There is no need to have any O&M staff or budget
due to the above circumstances and it is hoped to close down the
Low Cost Sanitation Project Unit by October 30, 1996.
5.   COLOMBO STORMWATER DRAINAGE
Colombo Stormwater Drainage System is being maintained by the
Colombo Municipal Council (CMC). The staff under this section is
controlled by Deputy Municipal Engineer (Drainage) together with
other duties including maintenance of sewage pumping stations.
However the sewerage system is being taken over by NWS&DB as
described under Colombo Sewerage.
There has been no additional staff recruited due to the assets
added to the system by the project since the work is very minute
compared to the whole drainage system within the CMC. O&M cost
for the year 1996 for the system is Rs. 33.7 million. Funds for
O&M comes from CMC reserve funds collected through assessment
taxes and other income and there is no special charges for
drainage from consumers. CMC hopes to review the previous reports
on the system and study the existing system so as to address the
problems encountered in the system.
At present the canal system and certain areas in CMC drainage
area are being rehabilitated by Sri Lanka Land Reclamation &
Development Corporation with the assistance of Japanese
Government on the recommendations based on Canal Rehabilitation
Study done under IDA Credit 1700 CE.



6.   MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicator which are monitored by the WDB at present for
Greater Colombo as well as for the whole island are
Unaccounted for Water (Colombo - 47%, Regions - 31%) Water
Production,  Number of connections  (Colombo - 172,  302,
Regions - 166,336). Number of employees per 1000
connections (Colombo - 10, Whole Island - 22) and other
indicators related to billing and collection, arrears of
billing, overtime done by employees, staffing, monthly fuel
cost, repair and maintenance cost of vehicles, disbursement
of capital funds and consumer complaints including some
parameters related to quality. All these indicators are
monitored by the Performance & Management Analysis Unit
(PMAU) of the WDB monthly and a report is produced called
Key Management Information which has been sending to the
IDA by the WDB with their monthly progress report. Even in
future it is possible to monitor those indicators and
report to the IDA if necessary. Above indicators are
closely monitored by the WDB and actions are taken to
achieve the targets according to the corporate plan
objectives of the WDB.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHAB1HATION PROJECT
(CR. 1700-CE)
Borrower's Evuaation






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(ICR)
Third Sri Lanka Water Supply and
Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
IDA CREDIT 1700-CE
Prepared by
National Water Supply and Drainage Board
September 1996



I I 



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Third Sri Lanka Water Supply and Sanitation
Rehabilitation Project - IDA Credit 1700 CE
CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1
1.1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.2. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT DESIGNS
1.2.1.    Greater Colombo Area
1.2.2.    Anuradhapura and Amparai Ar-ea
1.3. IMPLEMENTATION,   PROCUREMENT,   CONTRACT  MANAGEMENT  AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.3.1.    Transmission System
1.3.2.    Distribution System Improvements
1.3.3.    Greater Colombo Scraping and Relining
1.3.4.    Maharagama Water Supply Scheme
1.3.5.    Procurement Contracts
1.3.6.    Contract Management
1.3.7.    Technical Assistance
1.4. OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 2
2.1. WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON PROJECT PREPARATION
2.1.1.    Operational Action Plan
2.1.2.    Land Acquisition
2.1.3.    Project Reporting and Supervision
2.2. WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.2.1.    Studies
2.2.2.    Update of Greater  Colombo Water Supply Master
Plan
2.2.3.    Non Revenue Water Study
2.2.4.    Ambatale Jubilee NMaharagama Water Supply Scheme



2.2.5.    Greater Colombo Distribution Improvements
2.2.6.    Greater Colombo Pumping Stations
2.2.7.    Bulk Meters
2.2.8.    Low Cost Sanitation
2.2.9.    Training
2.2.10.   Procurement of Vehicles/Miscellaneous Equipment
2.2.11.   Project Management
2.3. WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON COVENANT COMPLIANCE
2.4. WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON OPERATION
2.4.1.    Greater Colombo Water Supply
2.4.2.    Maharagama Water Supply
2.4.3.    Colombo Sewerage
2.4.4.    Colombo Low Cost Sanitation
2.4.5.    Colombo Stormwater Drainage
CHAPTER 3
3.0. EVALUATION OF WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
3.1. Project Identification
3.2. Project Preparation
3.3. Project Appraisal and Supervision
CHAPTER 4
4.0. LESSONS LEARNED
4.1. Designs
4.2. Construction Management and Supervision
4.3. Project Coordination
4.4. Staff
4.5. Prequalification of Contractors/Tendering/Approval of
Tenders



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Third Sri Lanka Water Supply and Sanitation
Rehabilitation Project - IDA Credit 1700 CE
CHAPTER 1
1.1 PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project forms a part of National Water Supply and
Drainage Board (WDB)'s urban water supply and sanitation
investment program and executed during the period 1986-
1996. Originally project was scheduled to be completed by
June 1995, subsequently credit has been extended upto June
1996 to complete essential items in the project. The
programme includes (a) rehabilitation, extension and
improvement of water service facilities in and around
Colombo. (b) storm water drainage in Colombo and a study of
the maintenance and rehabilitation requirements of the
overall canals and drainage conveyance system. (c)
extensions to sewerage system in Greater Colombo area. (d)
on site sanitation facilities in Colombo and some divisions
in Kalutara and Gampaha districts and improved surface
drainage and paving in areas which can not economically be
served by water borne sewerage systems. (e) leak detection
and waste control programs and improvements in WDB's
operational efficiency and (f) technical assistance to
support WDB's institutional development efforts.
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)'s sector investment strategy
which was given due consideration during the project
implementation includes
(a) institutional development: to improve overall sector
management practices through strengthening the policy,
management and operational framework, particularly of
the WDB.
(b) financial strengthening: to adopt and implement
realistic   financial   and   commercial   management
practices in the sector and appropriate capital
financing plans and pricing policies and
(c) increased operating efficiency: to direct investments
towards   rehabilitation   of   existing   plant   and
equipment, increase utilization of existing systems
capacity, improve operations and maintenance and
introduce cost control measures.
Main jobs executed/completed under the project are



a)   Greater Colombo Water Supply
(i)  Construction of about 16 km of transmission mains
diameter ranging from 450 mm to 1100 mm to
augment existing capacity. (contracts 3/1, 7/1
and 7/2)
(ii) Construction of about 19 km of distribution
mains, diameter range 150 mm to 700 mm to expand
and strengthen the existing system. (contracts
7/1 and 7/2)
(iii) Construction of 9 million litres of storage in
one service reservoir. (contracts 3/1)
(iv) Scraping and lining with cement mortar, about 63
km of transmission and 9 km of distribution
mains, diameter ranging from 150 m to 500 mm.
(contract 9/1)
(v)  Provision  of  system  control  equipment,  valve
replacement and appurtenances. (contract 4/1 and
6/1)
(vi) Building and installation of pumping to replace
and  augment   existing  pumping  arrangements.
(contract 8/2)
b)   Maharagama Water Supply
(i)  Construction of about 80 km of transmission and
distribution mains, diameter range 50 mm to 600
mm. (contracts 3/1, 7/2)
(ii) Construction of 3600 cubic metres capacity ground
storage reservoirs and 1000 cubic metres capacity
water tower.
(iii) Building and installation of pumping station of
to pump water from the reservoir to the tower
(contract 3/1).
c)   Colombo Sewerage
About 20 km of road reinstatement following sewer
laying activities plus some final payments to sewer
laying contractor under Credit 1041 CE (Job A16).
d)   Colombo Sanitation
Provision  of  low  cost  on-site  waste  disposal
facilities in selected areas of Colombo and some
locations in Gampaha and Kalutara districts not
covered by waterborne sewerage (Job A17).



e)   Colombo Stormwater Drainage
(i)  Construction of 0.7 km of storm relief drains
diameter range 500 mm to 1200 mm at eight
locations (Job A18).
(ii) Construction of drainage channels and gulleys at
various locations. (Job A18)
f)   Technical Assistance
(i)  Appointment  of  consultants  to  improve  WDB's
design and construction management capability
including to undertake the preparation of designs
and tender documents of some project components.
(ii) Appointment of consultants to studies related to
canal rehabilitation, operation and control
review of Greater Colombo water supply, wash
water re use, Rural water supply sector review,
Greater Colombo water supply master plan update
and Non revenue water study.
g)   Training
Training programmes were arranged both short-term and
long-term for WDB staff in Colombo and abroad on
system maintenance and operations, project management
including   diploma/masters   courses   on   Sanitary
Engineering.
h)   Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles which are necessary for operations and
preventive maintenance were procured under various
contracts   during  the  project   period   including
miscellaneous  equipments   for  investigations   and
laboratory testing. (Job A30, contract 34/1, 34/2 and
34/3)
1.2 ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT DESIGNS
1.2.1     Greater Colombo Area
A study was carried out by the WDB with the assistance of
a consultant in 1985 to assess the condition of the
existing transmission and distribution system for Greater
Colombo Water Supply and the work required to bring the
system to a satisfactory condition to meet current needs
and to provide for future requirements up to the years of
1990 and 2000. The study area covers Greater Colombo from
Panadura in the south to Ja-Ela in the north and stretching
inland as far as Kaduwela.



A per capita demand of 182 to 341 lpcd for house
connections and 128 lpcd for standposts consumers were
established after a consumer demand survey and all
projections and designs were carried out accordingly. The
population in the area has been assessed at 1.85 million in
1985 increasing to 2.2 million in the year 2000. The three
sources supplying water to Greater Colombo have not been
part of this project. However, all three headworks
including treatment plants have been refurbished or/and
extended to meet demands in year 2000 under other bilateral
and multilateral assisted projects.
The existing transmission system including pumping stations
have been examined and various hydraulic measurements have
been carried out to asses the condition of the system and
the reliability of the supply. The whole system was
characterised by lack of working bulk meters and this had
rendered difficult the task of assessing the quantities of
water carried at key locations of the system. Some old
transmission and distribution lines were tested for
encrustation and some lines were identified for scraping
and relining to increase flows.
Required reinforcement/rehabilitation of each distribution
area and transmission system including pump stations have
been reviewed for the horizon of years 1990 and 2000.
Additional storage requirements to meet the demand of 1990
and 2000 were assessed and locations of such storage were
identified for existing supply areas as well as for new
water supply areas. In calculating the storage capacity a
12 hour storage at peak month demands was established as
the yard strick.
Due recognition was given for sector objectives as well as
to all other ongoing projects carried out within the
project area with various donor assistance. Coordination
was one important part of the project design not only among
various departments of the WDB but also staff/consultants
who      have      been       attached         to    various
rehabilitation/refurbishment works within the project area.
Some major rehabilitation/extension of headworks and
treatment capacity were carried out at Labugama, Kalatuwawa
and Ambatale. Labugama and Kalatuwawa were refurbished
during the project period with Japanese assistance while
Ambatale plant was extended by 40 mgd with French
2assistance   during   last  couple   of  years   including
rehabilitation of Ambatale existing works with Japanese
assistance.
In studying the project some areas in the Greater Colombo
were identified to give new water supply facilities
including   Maharagama,   Pannipitiya,   Battaramulla   and
Kaduwela.



1.2.2     Anuradhapura and Amparai Area
Preliminary studies and investigations were done to
rehabilitate Anuradhapura and Amparai WSS out of project
funds. Both are existing schemes Anuradhapura in the North
Central Province and Amparai in the Eastern Province.
Problems encountered in the schemes were inadequate sources
to abstract water at both places plus problems in the
storage and distribution including transmission. Even the
treatment provided at both locations were not satisfactory
at all specially at Amparai.
1.3  IMPLEMENTATION,   PROCUREMENT,   CONTRACT  MANAGEMENT  AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The project consists of some 40 discrete jobs ranging from
construction of new water supply works and rehabilitation
of existing systems to procurement of vehicles and
equipment including technical assistance for construction
management plus carry out some specific studies. Certain
jobs which were in the original list of works were deleted
subsequently due to operational difficulties and inadequate
local counterpart funding.
Some major works which were deleted from the programme were
rehabilitation of Anuradhapura and Amparai WSS and the
construction of new WSS at Battaramulla, Kaduwela and
Pannipitiya (Towns East of Colombo). Battaramulla, Kaduwela
and Pannipitiya schemes have been later implemented with
Japanese assistance and are already commissioned now.
1.3.1     Transmission System
To address the problems in the transmission and to increase
the reliability of the system some contract packages were
designed and implemented successfully.
Starting with the extension of clear water sump at Ambatale
and laying an additional 1100 mm transmission line from
Ambatale to Jubilee Reservoir, the reliability of the
transmission was enhanced appreciably. Construction of an
additional ground water reservoir at Jubilee increased the
storage capacity of the system thereby to cater for any
breakdowns or short term power failures. New pumps were
installed at various locations in the Greater Colombo area
to increase the supply as well as to replace the old pumps
to increase the reliability of the system. Under this pumps
were installed at Ambatale, Kolonnawa, Maligakanda,
Dehiwala, Moratuwa and Panadura (Contract 8/2).
To increase the accountability and decrease the UFW bulk
meters were installed at key locations of the system
including all headworks and storage reservoirs and elevated
towers. Stage I of the bulk meters job was completed but
stage II was not implemented due to certain problems
encountered during stage I. Mal functioning of certain
meters after installation and inadequate protection against
lightning on sophisticated instrumentation of bulk meters



were some shortcomings of the system. A transmission of 900
mm diameter and 2 km long was laid from Jubilee Reservoir
to Nawala area to increase the supply of that area where
water supply has been not adequate for the last few years.
1.3.2     Distribution System Improvements
To improve the distribution system within the Greater
Colombo area, two contracts were implemented (Contract 7/1
and Contract 7/2) under the project. Certain areas in CMC
and Greater Colombo were reinforced with more lines to cope
with the increased demand in those areas. Due to the above
lines supply has been improved substantially to Fort area
of CMC and also to some pockets in highly populated areas.
Certain difficulties were encountered during above pipe
laying due to narrow stretches of roads and encountering a
number of service utility lines in close proximity.
1.3.3     Greater Colombo Scraping & Relining
Applications for prequalification of contractors for this
were called around 1989 but subsequently it was postponed
due to non availability of local counterpart funds. Again
it was taken up for construction around 1994. Old 20"
transmission line from Labugama to Ambatale plus some
transmission and distribution lines within CMC, Dehiwala -
Mount Lavinia. Moratuwa and Panadura were taken up for
scraping and reline. However it was decided before
tendering that scraping and relining of new 20" from
Labugama to Ambatale is feasible and thereby it was also
included in the tender. Progress achieved by the contractor
was always behind the programme and with some difficulty
scraping and relining of both 20" lines were completed.
However during the construction, the contractor was slow in
progress specially executing the work in distribution
lines. Around January 1996 the progress of the contractor
was reviewed and it was mutually agreed to delete some
sections in the contract identified for scraping and reline
within CMC and Panadura distribution.
Flow capacities of scraped and relined pipes have been
increased significantly including C valves. The real
impact of the operation at Labugama - Kalatuwawa lines
are not yet known due to they are not connected to the
system but results at Panadura and Dehiwala - Mount
Lavinia are encouraging. It was reported that the
transmission from Panadura reservoir to tower has been
improved to such an extent that now the pumping hours
have been halved from originally operated numbers to
deliver the required demand.
1.3.4     Maharagama Water Supply Scheme
Earlier there was no pipe borne water supply in the area
except individual shallow well supply by consumers
themselves. The project comprises 6 km long 600 mm dia
meter transmission from Jubilee reservoir to Maharagama
reservoir, 3600 cubic meter capacity ground reservoir, 954



cubic meter capacity elevated water tower, pump house and
pumps and a distribution of 90 km long. It is expected to
serve a population of 120,900 in 1995 and 135,000 in year
2000. The contract was executed from 1991 to 1994. The
quality of work and the progress of work were well within
the acceptable standards and time frame. The scheme was
commissioned as scheduled in August 1994. Consumers enjoy
24 hour supply and there are no standposts in the system
and it is the policy of the WDB not to have standposts in
the scheme to have better control of the system and save
water.
1.3.5     Procurement Contracts
Under the project a number of procurement contracts have
been   completed   to   supply   essential   vehicles   and
miscellaneous equipments for operational regions as well as
to planning and designs, construction, commercial and other
branches of the WDB. Computers, photo copiers and other
related equipments were purchased for various sections of
the WDB to improve the quality of designs, enhance the
billing and collection and to maintain date bases and
produce management information reports on current aspects
of the WDB not only to various sections of the WDB but also
to other line ministries and outside organisations as well.
Vehicles such as cars, pickups, cargo trucks, bowsers and
tractors were purchased to be used for operational regions
and project related activities. Most of the vehicles were
delivered in first half of 1989. They were distributed
among all operational regions including Northern and
Eastern regions where sufficient vehicles were not
available for works.
Miscellaneous equipments for investigations, laboratory
work and sewerage maintenance related assignments were
purchased out of project funds. Purchase of equipment for
sewerage work was essential after recent take over of
operation and maintenance of Dehiwala - Mount Lavinia and
Kolonnawa sewerage system and more recently CMC sewerage
system.
1.3.6     Contract Management
Originally a consultant was attached to the Planning and
Designs Office to help in the project design work and to
review the contract documents done by consultants who were
appointed to do some specific project designs.
Even one consultant worked as a project coordinator during
initial  stages  of  the project  from  1986 upto  1988  to
coordinate the work and prepare progress reports. However
from 1989 Additional General Manager (Operations) took over
the post of Project Coordinator apart from other duties he
carried out. Except some of supply contracts majority of
the   civil   construction   jobs   were   started   except
distribution reinforcement in Colombo, during early years
of the project.



A consultant was appointed for the contract supervision and
administration when larger jobs were started and his
services was utilised upto end of June 1996. WDB personnels
were appointed to assist him. Contract 7/1, 7/2, 8/2, 3/1
& 9/1 are the jobs which were handled by the consultant.
Various reasons were attributed to this one being the
unsettled social environment prevailed in the country
during that period and also non allocation of enough
counterpart funds by Government of Sri Lanka to execute
jobs.
1.3.7     Technical Assistance
Some studies were carried out by consultants under the
project related to Colombo canal rehabilitation, operation
and control review of Greater Colombo water supply, wash
water reuse, rural water supply, Greater Colombo Water
Supply Master Plan update and Non revenue water related
works.
All   studies   were   completed   successfully   and   some
recommendations were implemented by the WDB and other
agencies.
1.4 OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Since 1974, the year the WDB was incorporated as a board,
funds generated were not adequate to do O&M without GSL
assistance. GSL provided the money to the WDB to gap the
financial deficit for operations. Under First Sri Lanka
Water Supply Project (Cr. 709 CE) and Second Sri Lanka
Water Supply & Sewerage Project (Cr. 1041 CE) certain
covenant conditions were not fulfilled by the WDB due to
low tariff or absence of a proper tariff and inadequate
institutional set up within the WDB to execute a proper
billing and collection operation.
With the commencement of Third Sri Lanka Water Supply &
Sanitation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1700 CE) and also
the USAID funded Institutional Development Project in 1985,
apart from construction of new schemes more emphasis was
given for rehabilitation of existing systems and other
support services.
Under above projects it was scheduled to address
institutional development - to improve overall sector
management practices through strengthening the policy,
management    and    operational    framework;    financial
strengthening - to adopt and implement realistic financial
and commercial management practices in the sector and
appropriate capital financing plans and pricing policies;
increased operational efficiency - to direct investments
towards rehabilitation of existing plants and equipment,
increase utilization of existing systems capacity, improve
operations and maintenance and introduce cost control
measures.



Action was taken to fix meters to all consumer premises
around 1980-1984 in Greater Colombo and to charge from
consumers. From 1985 tariff was adjusted periodically to
collect revenue to achieve corporate objectives of the WDB.
However even with the increased tariff and other cost
control measures including enhanced billing and collection
WDB could not satisfy the covenant requirement until 1990.
Even there was a lag in billing by about 6 months during
the initial stages of the project. It has been brought down
to 1-2 month by 1990 and continue to maintain it even now.
Originally billing was done by a private firm and it was
done inhouse including the billing in outstations since the
mid of the project period (1990). Inhouse billing
contributed much for the reduction in billing lag time and
improved collection too. Initially the collection figures
were not satisfactory and were around 10-20% during the
1985-1986. But with more emphasis on collection and
improved institutional development the collection has been
reached around 85% by end of the project.
Upto year 1990 covenant requirements related to
operational income and profits have not been achieved.
However from 1991 WDB recorded income to satisfy
covenant requirements.
To achieve above objectives from 1991 to 1995 tariff
was increased annually except in 1995 where request
for such a increase was turned down by the MHC&PU.
Loan repayment of WDB which was Rs. 233,238,873 in
1988 has been increased to Rs. 354,261,235 in 1995.
CHAPTER 2
2.1 WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON PROJECT PREPARATION
WDB appointed a consultant in 1985 to assess the condition
of the existing transmission/distribution system for
Greater Colombo Water Supplies and the work required to
bring the system to a satisfactory condition for needs at
that time as well for requirements upto years 1990 and
2000. At the same time some consultants were appointed to
assess   the  condition   and  make   recommendation   for
rehabilitation of Amparai and Anuradhapura WSS and to do
feasibility   studies  for  Kaduwela,   Battaramulla  and
Pannipitiya WSS.
2.1.1     Operational action plan
WDB and it's consultants completed preliminary engineering
design and cost estimates for the major components of the
proposed project in 1985. To streamline the work and
expedite the operations an operational action plan was
prepared by the IDA with the consultation of WDB. It
consists some 32 technical aspects, 09 financial aspects
and 05 institutional aspects.



Technical aspects deal with work related to appointment of
consultants for various designs work and studies, prepare
designs of some parts of the project by WDB and preparation
of TOR for the selection of consultants for some specified
project works.
Billing arrears, increase of collection, improvement of
WDB's overall financial performance are some of the key
issues addressed under Financial Aspects.
2.1.2     Land Acquisition
Land acquisition has not been a problem at any of the site
since most of the work are confined to rehabilitation of
existing facilities except at Maharagama where a new water
supply system has been commissioned. Even at Maharagama
necessary lands were purchased from private parties and
government agencies well in advance of project execution.
Non of the project item has been delayed due to non
possession of relevant land by the contractors.
2.1.3     Project Reporting and Supervision
It was agreed to report about the physical progress of the
2work monthly and financial progress on quarterly basis.
Apart from above some physical data related to water
production, water quality, water consumption, connections,
public standposts meters, leaks, sewer connections,
staffing, financial indicators and general indicators were
also to be reported to the IDA on quarterly basis.
2.2 WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A consultant was appointed to assist WDB design office
staff to project designs and also to review some specified
design works carried out by other consultants. Except
Ambatale Jubilee Transmission and Jubilee Reservoir all
other designs work were carried out by the WDB staff
including all vehicle and equipment procurement packages.
The services of an expatriate consultant was utilised by
the WDB during the initial stages of the project as a
project coordinator to coordinate works and also to monitor
and report the progress of work to the World Bank. All
designs work were done by a staff attached to the Planning
and Designs Office of the WDB headed by a Chief Engineer
under the supervision of DGM (P&D)/AGM (P&D) except
vehicles and equipment packages which were handled by the
AGM (Services). Apart from contract and procurement
packages there are some institutional, commercial and
financial items in the project which were handled/directed
by respective divisional heads of the WDB.
Addl. GM (Operations) with the assistance of an expatriate
project coordinator monitored the project since it involves
various departments of the WDB. Progress was reviewed
monthly or as and when need arised with the participation
of  all  job  managers.   Chairman/General   Manager  and
consu].tants were present at those meeting to iron out any



problems and take corrective action for smooth functioning
of the project. Due to the absence of a full time project
manager the IDA and WDB decided to appoint a Deputy General
Manager to coordinate the project in 1990. Since 1990 all
jobs have been handled by the IDA Section.
Even during the procurement stage, AGM (Services) acted as
the job manager for contract 30 (Vehicles) and contract
34/1  (Miscellaneous  Equipment).  Work  related  to  civil
construction  and  pipe  laying  were  handled  by  the
Construction Division.
2.2.1.    Studies
Around 1989 the services of the expatriate project
coordinator was completed and even the consultants who were
attached to the planning and design section completed their
assignment since by that time almost all the major designs
work were at the completion stage. All studies except NRW
study were completed before 1990. NRW study was done during
1994. Except Canal Rehabilitation study which took about 3
years to complete due to revised/extended work all other
studies were completed within one year. Based on the
recommendation of Canal Rehabilitation Study, a project is
being implemented now by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and
Development Corporation with Japanese and Government of Sri
Lanka assistance. Under this project the canal system
within the Greater Colombo Area is rehabilitated to form a
fully operational drainage system.
Some recommendations under Operational and Control Review
of Greater Colombo Water Supply have been implemented but
majority are still not started due to inadequate funding.
Even the recommendations done under Wash Water Reuse Study
has not been considered as a priority for implementation.
Lot of action has been taken place based on the Rural Water
Supply Sector Study and some studies done subsequently
related to the sector. A Rural Water Supply Section was
established headed by a Deputy General Manager around 1
year back. It is intended to address the sector with a
fresh approach including coordination with other agencies
who are doing similar work related to the sector. Even the
priorities of the Government has been changed giving more
emphasis for rural water supply and it appears to be a
decision taken with all those points into consideration.
2.2.2     Update of Greater Colombo Water Supply Master
Plan
Updating the Greater Colombo Water Supply Master Plan which
was earlier prepared in 1971 was another milestone in the
project. The areas considered under the study are now much
bigger than it considered in 1971 due to development taken
place in those areas as well as in the sector. Much
development work has occurred since 1971 in the area
including implementation of new water supply facilities and
rehabilitation of existing facilities which all have been



considered into account in doing the above study.
Recommendations were made in the study upto the horizon of
year 2020 for the water supply in the Greater Colombo Area.
Most of the recommendations of the study are being
implemented now with the assistance of Japanese and French
lines of credit, mainly upgrading and rehabilitation of
existing Ambatale Treatment Works and construction a new
treatment plant on the Kalu River including ancillary works
like transmission and distribution within new areas which
are densely populated or where alternative sources of water
is not available.
2.2.3     Non Revenue Water Study
After some setbacks during early stages specially before
awarding the study, the work was completed during 1994. A
report was prepared by the consultant and developed the
scope of work and detailed action plan for the NRW
programme  for the next 3 to 5 years.  The TOR and the
evaluation criteria to be used for the selection of a prime
contractor was also described in the report. As per the
recommendation  of  the  study  action  has  been  taken  to
implement the programme, with direct labour participation
by the WDB during last 2 years but the progress achieved so
far has not been satisfactory at all due to institutional
and other problems. Now, an action plan is being prepared
to implement the programme with a prime contractor approach
as recommended in the study.
2.2.4     Ambatale Jubilee, Maharagama WSS
At the commencement of the project Ambatale - Jubilee
Transmission, extension works at Ambatale sump and pump
house, Jubilee Reservoir, Jubilee Maharagama transmission
and Maharagama works which includes a reservoir, elevated
tower, pump house and some 80 km of distribution lines were
designed and preparation of tender documents were done
separately to call tenders as 3 packages. However, to
attract international contractors for the work and to
maintain consistency of the whole work all jobs were
amalgamated to one package as contract 3/1. This is the
biggest job in the project and absorbs some 40 percent of
the total project cost (both IDA and local). Due to
inadequate budgetary provisions by the Government of Sri
Lanka (GSL) upto 1990 it was not possible to take this job
for implementation. However, with improved situation in Sri
Lanka and due to some conditions imposed by the IDA, GSL
agreed to make available sufficient counterpart funds for
not only this work but for the whole project.
Contractors were prequalified for the work in 1990 and bids
were received from prequalified tenderers in 1991. The
contract which was awarded in 1991 was completed in August
1994 within the stipulated contract period (with approved
time extensions). The work was commissioned in 1994 and
Maharagama Area received water with the other development
work also completed including extension of Ambatale
Treatment Plant. However, it took another two years from



August 1994 to August 1996 to finalise claims due to the
contractor. For this there were various types of claims
ranging from extra works to BTT claims including additional
works. Lot of claims were settled between the contractor
and the WDB but some were referred to the MHC&PU. Even the
contractor has initiated some cases in the court against
the WDB to get a settlement. However, with the initiation
of the MHC&PU those court cases have been withdrawn and a
settlement has been agreed in 1996.
2.2.5     Greater Colombo Distribution Improvements
Contract 7/1 and Contract 7/2 deals with this works.
Contract 7/1 was executed from 1989 to 1991 and Contract
7/2 from 1993 to 1995. Contract 7/1 includes the
distribution rehabilitation in Greater Colombo but majority
of those works are within the CMC Area. Under Contract 7/2,
apart from some distribution improvements within Colombo,
certain infilling of Maharagama distribution were also
included. Both jobs were completed without any drawback and
even the payments including all extra and addition works
were settled.
2.2.6     Greater Colombo Pumping Stations
This work deals with the replacement of existing old pumps
and addition of extra pumps to existing pumping stations
within Greater Colombo and construction of a new pump
station at Dehiwala to Cater for the local demand in the
area.
Under this contract pumps were installed at Ambatale,
Kolonnawa, Colombo, Dehiwala, Moratuwa and Panadura. The
contract was completed in 1991 and generally the work was
executed within contractual obligations. Only problem
associated with the contract was the delay of construction
of pump station at Dehiwala due to some disagreement
between the main contractor and a sub contractor assigned
for the task. However, it did not hamper the overall
programme.
2.2.7     Bulk Meters
This assignment was taken up during the early stages of
project. Non availability of a reliable bulk meter system
is one of the key drawback in the Greater Colombo Water
Supply System. Even existing bulk meters have not been
maintained properly. Therefore during the project planning
stage this item was given high priority so that operational
managers are in a better position to control the system.
There were lot of shortcomings in the contract execution it
self. Just after the commissioning of bulk meters some were
reported to be malfunctioning or certain meters were not
protected against lightning etc. The contractor attended to
the defects but the WDB was not happy about the way they
have attended to the defects. Even after the commissioning
no preventive action has been taken by the WDB to keep the
meters in working order. O&M personnel complain about the



quality of meters and ultimately it was decided to defer
the stage II of the Bulk Meter contract until a suitable
methodology is selected including specifications. However
this has not been materialised during project period and
funds earmarked for them have been utilised for other
essential works in the project.
2.2.8     Low Cost Sanitation
Originally some 300,000 US Dollars were allocated for this
job out of IDA funds. The job was started in 1988 and
implemented originally by the National Housing Development
Authority (NHDA). However the progress of work during the
time from 1988 to 1993 where the work was handled by the
NHDA was very slow. Some 3280 families were provided with
shallow sewer systems connected to their individual
household latrines while 520 families were provided with
communal latrines connected to common septic tanks. The
above programme was termed as phase I of the job.
From 1994 to 1996 the works were handled by the Clear
Settlement Project Unit (CSPU) of the Ministry of Housing,
Construction and Public Utilities (MHC&PU) upon a decision
taken jointly by the IDA and MHC&PU to accelerate the work
and to address more beneficiaries outside CMC area as well.
Since there were more beneficiaries the original allocation
out of IDA was not enough and finally a total sum of Rupees
Sixty Eight Million from IDA was approved for disbursement
to beneficiaries. Lot of work was done during 1995-1996 and
under phase II and III some 22930 individual toilets were
constructed and a shallow sewer system was constructed
beneficiaries 175 families. Under this programme the whole
of Colombo District and some selected areas of Gampaha and
Kalutara districts have been benefitted.
2.2.9     Training
A training programme was prepared for implementation out of
IDA funds at the beginning of the project covering both
short term and long term fellowships. Certain programmes
were scheduled at Universities or Water Authorities in
foreign countries in Europe while some were programmed at
Water Authorities in Asia Pacific Region. A fairly large
number of in country both at the WDB as well as at other
Sri Lankan institutions were arranged specially to enhance
the knowledge of Computer Literary and related work out of
project funds.
2.2.10    Procurement of Vehicles/Miscellaneous Equipments
1.   Vehicles
Some 50 pickups, 5 cars, 20 trucks, 20 bowsers and 10
tractors were procured out of project funds to be used
for O&M work as well as for project related
construction supervision. With the addition of above
vehicles to the O&M section both at Greater Colombo
and regional offices some outstanding problems



prevailed in the sections were ceased with increased
mobility of managers for day to day works.
2.   Miscellaneous Equipment
Equipment necessary for sewerage related maintenance
plus some essential equipment for laboratory testing
work were procured from the IDA funds together with
some equipment for O&M of water works. Computers were
purchased for Planning and Design, Construction,
Billing and Collection including support services. All
regional offices have been supplied with computer to
do in house billing and thereby billing delays have
been brought down to 1-2 months from 6-8 months
prevailed during the early parts of the project.
2.2.11    Project Management
During early parts of the project some consultants were
appointed to assist the design office staff as well as to
review the designs completed by other consultants. Another
consultant was appointed as a project coordinator to
coordinate project activities and for report works.
Most of the studies were completed before 1990 except UFW
study and until 1990 none of the major construction work
could be started due to non availability of counterpart
local funds and unsettled conditions prevailed in the
country during the period. Until 1990 jobs were handled by
respective Deputy General Managers under the direction of
Additional General Manager (Operations) with the assistance
of expatriate project coordinator. IDA and WDB reviewed the
progress of work critically around 1990 and recommended to
appoint a senior personnel to execute the project and it
was decided to appoint a DGM to look after the project
under the direction of General Manager. Until that time,
design staff were attached to the Planning and Design
Section and even that staff who performed designs related
to IDA assignments were brought under the DGM (IDA) with
AGM (IDA) was also appointed subsequently.
With the above mentioned changes plus some favourable
response from the GSL with enough counterpart funds
together with improved security situation in the country
the biggest job in the project was taken up for execution
in 1990/1991. By that time no expatriates were available
for   project   coordination   except   for   construction
administration and supervision. The services of the
consultant for construction supervision and administration
was retained upto the end of project in June 1996 with the
approval of IDA.
Progress of work was reported to the IDA on monthly basis
together with financial progress on quarterly basis. At the
beginning of the project IDA wanted the WDB to report on
some monitoring indicators related to physical data such as
water production, quality, consumption, connections, public
standposts, meters, leaks and staffing plus financial and



general indicators for the whole WDB. Under a USAID
programme a separate   project was started in the WDB in
1985 to strengthen the financial, support services and
billing and collection so as to achieve some what similar
objectives as laid down by the credit agreement. IDA staff
and those USAID consultants had meeting during IDA missions
and exchanged views related to above topics for the benefit
of WDB as a whole. Under the above project a new section
was created called Performance and Management Analysis Unit
(PMAU) to compile and review data not only as mentioned in
the IDA credit agreement but also with some details related
to other areas as well.
The key Management Information Report prepared monthly by
the PMAU includes almost all data requested by the IDA and
was forwarded monthly to IDA together with the monthly
progress report.
2.3  WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON COVENANT COMPLIANCE
Right from the beginning of the project WDB was aware about
the responsibilities of covenant compliance under the
credit agreement. But there were some constraints which
were beyond the control of WDB related to the issue. One
such major issue was the increase of tariff. WDB could not
increase tariff on their own but it should get the approval
of MHC&PU and the GSL. This is a major issue for the
government specially during an election year where they are
reluctant to revise any tariff not only water but also any
other utility services like electricity.
However upto 1994 GSL/MHC&PU allowed to increase the tariff
but it has not been granted for 1995 and 1996. Indications
are that the requested tariff increase for 1997 may be
approved but nothing has been decided yet.
Some action taken by the WDB to reduce O&M cost were
successful but despite all efforts expenditure keep on
increasing year by year. Some staff retrenchment programme
was done in 1990 on the recommendation of IDA to cut down
manpower costs but appreciable savings were not enumerated
from those actions.
Some control on overtime and fuel used for vehicles during
a certain month were effected from 1989 and thereby some
saving were achieved from both activities. This system
continues even now and for all categories of staff as well
as for vehicles. More controls were done on operational
budgets of each cost centre and thereby achieved certain
goals of annual budget to contain O&M expenditure.
Due to non collection of arrears in sufficient amount and
the absence of an institutional set up to improve the
system covenant compliance were not achieved during the
first half of the project. Despite the above, collection
figure  were  increased  annually  with  percentage  of
collection also enhanced annually due to continuous follow
up. WDB which made Rs. 12,264,124 operational loss in 1989



achieved a operational profit of Rs. 766,884,116 in 1995.
However with increasing loan repayment annually net profit
after allowing for loan repayment/depreciation in 1985 was
marginal compared to 1994 figures.
2.4  WDB'S PERFORMANCE ON OPERATION
2.4.1     GREATER COLOMBO WATER SUPPLY
National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWS&DB) is
responsible for the operation and maintenance of Greater
Colombo water supply (which serves Wattala, Mabole, Mahara,
Peliyagoda, Colombo, Kolonnawa, Kotikawatta, Mulleriyawa,
Kotte, Maharagama, Dehiwala-Mt. Lavinia, Moratuwa and
Panadura)    including    headworks,    transmission    and
distribution except the maintenance of distribution within
Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) where the task is performed
by the council staff themselves under a contract with the
NWS&DB where the salaries of maintenance staff and other
expenses, including materials used for O&M are supplied by
the Water Board. Since almost all the work done within the
Greater Colombo area out of IDA Funds are mainly upgrading
and rehabilitation of the existing system there has been no
appreciable increase in the staff both within the NWS&DB
and CMC except for Maharagama Water Supply where a complete
new system has been installed.
Estimated cost of recurrent expenditure for the year 1996
is Rs. 573 million for the Greater Colombo Water Supply.
Consumers are billed to collect revenue by the NWS&DB and
it is expected to collect some Rs. 1,056 million during
1996. Since 1991 sufficient funds have been generated from
adjustment of tariff to cover not only direct O&M cost but
also debt service, interest and capital repayment or
depreciation whichever is higher commensurate with the
covenant requirements of the IDA Credit 1700 CE.
There are stand posts garden taps and direct consumer
connections in the system. Majority of the connections are
domestic consumers but there are considerable numbers of
institutional, commercial hotel, shipping and stand post
connections in the system. Number of total connections as
in April 1996 is 170, 360 while there are 4500 standposts
within the system. Number of connections which were 97362
in 1987 is now around 170360 indicating a 100% in increase
in connections during the project period from 1986 to 1996.
Water quality is being monitored at various locations of
the   system   including   headworks,   transmission   and
distribution both by bacteriological and physical-chemical
means to ensure that the water delivered to the consumers
are within acceptable standards. Some 15 million cubic
metres of water is produced at three headworks (Labugama,
Kalatuwawa & Ambatale) of the system per month. Total water
that is accounted or metered per month is around 7.5
million cubic meters or so, indicating a UFW figure of 50%
for the Greater Colombo Water Supply System.



2.4.2     MAHARAGAMA WATER SUPPLY
Maharagama Water Supply which has been constructed under
the project is maintained by the NWS&DB as a sub unit of
Greater Colombo Water Supply. The scheme was commissioned
in 1994. Some 50 skilled personals are assigned for the
work including some 40 unskilled persons. Still some 10
percent of skilled personals and 25 percent of unskilled
personals are to be recruited. Action is underway by the
NWS&DB to recruit those personals early. Total O&M cost for
1996 for the works is Rs. 19,927,200. Consumers are billed
according to a tariff and NWS&DB per-forms the task.
The supply to the consumers are on 24 hour basis and some
5500 connections have already been given. 30% of the
population is served with water in the area. Still some
areas are not covered by the distribution but most of those
areas are addressed under Stage III distribution which is
being implemented now. However, a considerable percentage
of people have their own supply through shallow wells.
There are no public standposts in the scheme and it is the
policy to have the system without standpost to minimise
wastage. Daily consumption of water per day is around 4000
cubic metres per day and it is estimated a per capita
consumption of 146 lpcd.
2.4.3     COLOMBO SEWERAGE
Colombo Sewerage System which covers Colombo Municipal
Council (CMC) administrative limits consists with 13 sewage
pumping stations, 234 km of sewer mains diameter ranging
from 150 mm to 1500 mm and two sea outfalls at Wellawatta
and Mutwal which have been constructed under Second Sri
Lanka Water Supply and Sewerage Project (IDA Credit 1041
CE). The system has been maintained by the CMC upto mid
1996. However, due to institutional problems within the CMC
and on the recommendation of IDA, NWS&DB has taken over the
O&M of the system from July 09, 1996.
However, for an initial period of two years the system will
be maintained by CMC even from July 09, 1996 on a service
contract with the NWS&DB. A separate branch has been
established within the NWS&DB to execute above work under
a Deputy General Manager and they now maintain sewerage
systems at Kolonnawa and Dehiwala-Mt. Lavinia. It is
estimated that the 1996 O&M expenditure for CMC sewerage
system is around Rs. 90 million. CMC contribution is Rs. 70
million while NWS&DB will contribute Rs. 20 million.
There has not been any changes in staff levels within the
CMC due to the additional work out of the project since
those funds were utilised mainly to rehabilitate existing
system plus some road reinstatement after sewer laying
under Credit 1041 CE. It is also proposed to fund the
future O&M, both by the CMC and NWS&DB in the ratio of 7:2
out of their general reserves. Still no concrete action has
been taken to levy a sewerage tariff from these customers.
The number of sewer connections within the CMC is around



42,700 (domestic - 32,400 connections, commercial/other -
10,300 connections) Out of the total population of 745,000
(1992), 550,000 are served by sewers while others are
served  by  on  site  facilities   wh ch  represent  a  74%
coverage with water borne sewerage
Non  availability  of  funds  foi  Lnstalling  laterals  in
Kolonnawa and Dehiwala/Mount Lavinia has been t:he biggest
drawback in giving house connections Cabinet approval has
been requested for funds for ur-gent relabilitation works
amounting to Rs 50 million annually till 1999.
2.4.4     COLOMBO LOW COST SANITATION
Under phase I of the project some 3280 families were
provided with household latrines connected to shallow sewer
systems and 520 families with communal latrines connected
to common septic tanks. Under phase IT & IIT some 22930
household latrines and a shallow sewe- system benefitted to
175 families were implemented,
In all above cases no additional fund; are required for O&M
since either families benefitted or CMC sewerage staff will
maintain the system. A health education programme has been
conducted by the Clean Settlement Pr(gramme Unit (CSPU) to
convince  the  beneficiary  families   about  the  proper
maintenance and benefits accumulatec for them from those
actions. Some guidelines including handouts are distributed
by CSPU among the beneficiaries. There is no need to have
any O&M staff or budget due to the a}ove circumstances and
it is hoped to close down the Low Ccst Sanitation Project
Unit by October 30, 1996.
2.4.5     COLOMBO STORMWATER DRAINAG-,
Colombo Stormwater Drainage Systemi is being maintained by
the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC). The staff under this
section  is  controlled  by  Deputy  Municipal  Engineer
(Drainage) together with other duties including maintenance
of sewage pumping stations. However --he sewerage system is
being taken over by NWS&DB as 1e cribed under Colombo
Sewerage.
There has been no additional staff recruited due to the
assets added to the system by the project since the work is
very minute compared to the whole drainage system within
the CMC. O&M cost for the year 199)6 for the system is Rs.
33.7 million. Funds for O&M comer from CMC reserve funds
collected through assessment taxes and other income and
there is no special charges for drainage from consumers.
CMC hopes to review the previous repDrts on the system and
study the existing system so as to address the problems
encountered in the system.
At present  the  canal  system  and  :ertain  areas  in CMC
drainage area are being rehabilitated by Sri Lanka Land
Reclamation & Development Corpcrati(n with the assistance
of Japanese Government  on the recommendations  based on



Canal Rehabilitation Study done under IDA Credit 1700 CE.
CHAPTER 3
EVALUATION OF WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
3.1 Project Identification
Prior to the project identification a consultant was
appointed in 1985 to review the existing conditions in the
Greater Colombo Water Supply System including Anuradhapura
and Amparai. A team of WDB Engineers and technical
personnels assisted the consultant to perform the above
task and recommended proposals to rehabilitate the system
to the horizon of years 1990 and 2000. IDA approved the
above recommendations and based on Water Supply Master Plan
and other reports including some surveys completed by the
study team themself a project was identified to be funded
by the proposed credit together with GSL funding. During
initial stages of the study there were some proposals to
include a fairly large proportion of sewerage work of
Colombo also but the priority of WDB's investment plan was
for water supply and IDA agreed to the recommendation of
the WDB. Certain jobs were deleted from the project like
Amparai and Anuradhapura Water Supply Rehabilitation plus
water supply to Battaramulla, Kaduwela and Pannipitiya
area. The first two were deleted due to security problems
and water rights and the last three were deleted due to
inadequate funds. IDA gave their concurrence for all above
changes after reviewing all circumstances case by case.
There is nothing to complain about IDA on project
identification from WDB.
3.2 Project Preparation
Certain constructive steps were taken to enhance the
quality of work during the initial stages of the project
but the absence of a full time Project Director was one of
the drawbacks from the WDB side. However this was rectified
by mid of the project around 1990 by the appointment of a
Deputy General Manager to coordinate all work related to
IDA jobs. Task Managers from IDA were generally there for
2-3 years at the initial stages of the project but in
1990's frequent changes of Task Managers resulted in adhoc
changes in certain decisions too. However it was
streamlined again by end of the project period. Lot of data
related to WDB activities were requested by the IDA but
project staff were not in a position to furnish all those
datas specially related to physical data, financial
indicators   and   general   indicators   related   to  WDB
activities. However with the formation of Performance
Management Analysis Unit (PMAU) lot of above datas were
compiled by them and those datas were forwarded to IDA with
the monthly progress report.



3.3 Project Appraisal and Supervision
The role played by the IDA related to project appraisal and
supervision is generally acceptable to the WDB. However
occasional changes of IDA Project Manager specially during
the middle part of the project resulted some delay in
taking policy decisions on key matters.
CHAPTER 4
LESSONS LEARNED
4.1 Designs
The set up prevailed at the design office during the
initial stages of the project to implement project designs
appears to be a suitable set upto follow for future works
too. Under the above set up WDB designed almost all jobs
except one or two while an international consultant
reviewed those works including other works performed by
outside consultants. WDB Engineers and technical personnels
received important design experience as well as technology
transfer from international consultants.
4.2 Construction Management and Supervision
WDB staff worked with a number of expatriate consultants to
supervise the jobs under the project. Since most of the
larger jobs under the project were constructed by foreign
contractors some guidance was necessary for WDB staff to
supervise them, from expatriate consultants. However now
WDB is in a position to handle most of the supervision by
themselves without the assistance of expatriates due to
long exposure of local personnels to foreign consultants.
However for certain specialised jobs like micro tunnelling,
WDB may need consultants for their future projects.
4.3 Project Coordination
Absence of a full time Project Manager to implement the
project during the first five years of the project was one
drawback of the project. It is recommended to appoint a
full time project manager at the commencement of the
project for future project. This was done at the ongoing
Asian   Development   Bank   (ADB)   funded  Water   Supply
Rehabilitation Project and IDA funded Colombo Environmental
Improvement Project (CEIP). Appointment of Deputy General
Managers (DGM) at the commencement of above projects
resulted in better coordination and adhere to scheduled
original programme.
4.4 Staff
Obtaining suitable, experienced, senior staff from the WDB
for projects at the commencement of the work appears to be
difficult   sometimes   due   to   cumbersome   recruitment
procedures and other institutional problems prevailing in
the WDB. Various approvals has to be taken before



appointment of some personnels and it takes months to
establish the system. As an alternative to the above hiring
personnels from the consultants is possible but it will
cost some 5-6 times the amount paid to similar WDB staff.
Most of the experienced project staff both design and
construction migrated to other countries during the last
couple of years due to unsettled condition prevailing in
the country as well as to enhance their career prospects.
Action taken by the WDB/GOSL to rectify this is not
adequate and this is one area which they should consider
seriously. Incentives provided to keep experienced hands
within the WDB is not satisfactory at all.
4.5 Prequalification of Contractors/Tendering/Approval of
Tenders
The present set up in the WDB/GOSL needs some revision if
the time taken has to be reduced for above. For certain
jobs it took 1-2 years for the above processes while it
took only one year to complete construction or procurement
for the whole works. Appointment of evaluation committee
members from various organisations makes the matter too
cumbersome for respective members from the WDB. Since WDB
members has no control over others sometimes the whole
evaluation/prequalification has to be handled single handed
by the WDB member himself to expedite the matter. It is
recommended to appoint more members from the WDB for
evaluation panels and appoint minimum number from outside
organisations to adhere for transparency.



i
iI



IMAGING
Report No.:          16263
Type:     ICR



