OFFICL
DOCUM
CREDIT NUMBER 1700 CE
Project Agreement
(Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
Dated                              , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1700 CE
PROJ CT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              02              , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPME        OCIATION  (the  Association)  and
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY DRAINAGE BOARD (hereinafter called WDB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-two million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,100,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that WDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and WDB, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to WDB on the terms and coditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS WDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise require_, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) WDB declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A
through E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-2-
conformity   with  appropriate   administrative,   financial  and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, WDB shall carry out Parts A through E of the
Project in accordance with an Operational Action Plan satisfac-
tory to the Association. To that end, WDB shall: (i) prepare and
furnish to the Association annual updates of said Plan; (ii)
carry out the programs under said Plan with such changes thereof
as the Association and WDB shall have agreed upon; and (iii) keep
the Association informed of the progress of the implementaion of
said Plan.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otheruise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. WDB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and its part of the Project.
Section 2.04. WDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, WDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) WDB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of its part of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) WDB   shall  promptly  inform  the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its part of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by WDB of its


﻿-3-
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WDB
Section 3.01. WDB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utilities practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. WDB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utilities practices.
Section 3.03. WDB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) WDB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) WDB shall:
(i) have    its  accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of


﻿-4-
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, WDB shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion  by  said   auditors  as  to  whether  the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WDB shall, from time to time, take all such measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce sufficient
rev-Iues to cover (i) operating expenses and working capital
requirements, commencing with fiscal year 1987, and (ii) all of
such requirements together with debt service or depreciation,
whichever is higher, commencing with fiscal year 1989.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of WDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 25 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
WDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
C.able, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WDB:
National Water Supply and
Drainage Board
P.O. Box 14
Mount Lavinia
Sri Lanka
Cable address:                    Telex:
WATERBOARD                      21482 NWSDB CE
RATMALANA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of WDB may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as such Chairman shall
designate in writing, and WDB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
By  /e
I          Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Comiultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the installation of transmission pipelines,
cement mortar lining of existing mains, and treatment facility
rehabilitation shall be prequalified as described in paragraph
2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, WB may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts for: (i) laying distribution mains and
sewers; (ii) construction of small pump stations; and (iii) minor
improvements of water services and sanitation facilities up to an
aggregate amount of $5,800,000 equivalent may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Road reinstatement may be carried out through force account.


﻿-9-
3.   Contracts for electrical and lifting equipment and pumping
plant estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of $1,500,000 equivalEnt, may be let following
local   competitive  bidding   procedurf.is  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph I of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 10 -
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower or WDB, as the case may be,
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower or WDB, as the case may
be, shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


