Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8343-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 7, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. i



CURRENCY EoUIVALENTS
Currency unit  : Zloty (Zl)
(Average Rates)
1985  1986  1287  1988  1989  1990
US$ 1.00 -                 147   175   265   430  4000  9500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Gcal               Gigacalorie (one million kilocalories)
Kcal               Kilocalorie (4187 Joule)
Kw                 Kilowatt
Mt                 Million tons
Mtce               Million tons of coal equivalent ( 0.65 Mtoe, or 29.3 PJ)
Mtoe               Million tons of oil equivalent (1.54 Mtce, or 45.1 PJ)
Mt-pa              Million tons per annum
MW                 Megawatt (1000 kilewatts)
PJ                 Petajoule (34,129 tons of coal equivalent)
ABBREVIATIONS
API                American Petroleum Institute
CMEA               Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EIB                European Investment Bank
ERR                Ecci-omic Rate of Return
ESMAP              Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
LNG                Liquified Natural Gas
LPG                Liquified Petroleum Gas
MOI                Ministry of Industry
MUV                Manufactures Unit Value index
NBP                National Bank of Poland
PGNG               Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo
(Polish Oil and Gas Company)
SCADA              Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
WEWB               Wspolnota Energetyki i Wegla Brunatnego (Power and Lignite
Board)
WWK                Wspolnota Wegla Kamiennego (Hard Coal Board)
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
Loan and Project Summary   ........................  vii
I.      INTRODUCTION   ....... ....................                                                     1
II.    THE ENERGY SECTOR  .........................                                                     2
A.   The Economic Environment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           2
B.   The Energy Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           3
(a)   Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        3
(b)   Energy Balance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        4
(c)   Energy Pricing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        5
(d)   Sector Structure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        6
(e)   Sector Restructuring and Regulatory Framework   . . . . .                        7
C.   Bank Assistance Strategy   .    . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .                        8
III.   THE COAI. AND GAS SECTORS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            9
A.   Hard Coal  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           9
B.   Lignite  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
C. Oil and Gas                         ..11
(a) Oil .11
(b)   Gas                                                                             11
(c)   Gas Transmission and Distribution .   . . . . . . . . . .                       13
(d)   Gas Balance   ................                                  .....          .  13
IV.  THE BENEFICIARIES .........................   14
A.   Organization and Management  ........                      ..   ..    ..   ...            .    14
B.   Staff and Training   ................                                     .....          .  15
C.   Metering,  Billing and Collection   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
D.  Other Aspects .........................   17
This repoat is based on the findings of an appraisal mision which 'islted Poland In October/November 1989. The mission comprised
Messrs/Mmes El Busz (Task Manager), D. Craig (EnesW Economist), HE Hindriks (Mning Engineer), N. KIhan (Procurement Assistant),
A. Mashayekhli (Gas Economist), H. MorsH (Petroem Engieer), bL Shiral (Pipelne Enginer), and C Warren (Financial Analyst)
and consultants J. Brocoff (Gas Treatment Engieer), J. Dais (Fhanal Analyst), IL Falkebeny (Environmental Expert), and A. Smit
(Geophysicist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iv -
V.    THE PROJECT ...............                                                   17
A.  Project Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
B.  Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
C.  ESMAP Components  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   21
D.  Private Sector Involvement  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   21
E.  Environmental Aspects .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
F.  Project Cost .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
G.  Financing Plan  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   22
H.  Procurement ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   23
I.  Disbursements ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   24
J.  Implementation Arrangements ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   25
K.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
L.  Supervision ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
A.  The Financial System  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .  .    .   26
(a)  Accounting ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
(b)  Asset Valuation and Depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
(c) Investments .27
B.  PGNG  .............                  ...............                     28
(a) General .28
(b)  Past Performance and Present Position .28
(c) Gas Pricing .29
(d)  Future Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
VII.  BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT ....  .         .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   32
A.  Project Benefits  .  .....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   32
B.  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
C. Economic Rate of Return .33
D. Major Risks .33
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .34



v 
ANNEXE:S
Annex 1           Documents Available in the Project File
Annex 2-1         National Energy Balances
Annex 2-2         Energy Market Structure
Annex 2-3         Energy Pricing Policy
Annex 3-1         The Coal and Lignite Sector
Annex 3-2         The Oil and Gas Sector
Annex 3-3         Hydrocarbon Exploration aind Reserves
Anmex 3-4         Contractual Framework for Private Investment
Annex 3-5         Gas Transmission and Distribution System
Annex 3-6         Gas Balances, 1988-2000
Annex 4-1         PGNG - Organization Chart
Annex 5-1         Detailed Project Description
Annex 5-2         Environmental Aspects of Gas Production
Annex 5-3         Detailed Project Cost
Annex 5-4         Disbursement Schedule
Annex 5-5         Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5-6         Supervision Action Plan
Annex 6-1         Gas Tariff Structure
Annex 6-2         PGNG - Forecast Financial Statements, 1990-96
Annex 7-1         Economic Rate of Return Calculation
MAP               IBRD - 22056
,U



POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Projet Summary
Borrower:          The Polish Oil and Gas Company (PGNG).
Guarantor:         Republic of Poland.
Amount:            US$ 250 million equivalent.
Terms:             17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Proiect
Objectives:        The project's objectives are to:  (a) improve the energy-
related convertible currency earnings of Poland by (i)
increasing domestic production of natural gas and (ii)
encouraging energy conservation for all forms of energy and
fuel substitution through supporting energy price reform; (b)
contribute to a reduction of environmental poll -ion related
to energy use; and (c) improve the competitive, regulatory and
financial framework of the sector entities by supporting the
implementation of appropriate restructuring programs for the
coal, gas, power and heat sectors.   In parallel with the
project, the Bank/UNDP's Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program   (ESMAP)   would:   (a)   implement  energy   sector
restructuring studies and a gas pricing study; (b) implement
studies to optimize further development of the gas sector and
assess its e.uvironmental impact; and (c) assist in preparing
a contractual framework to facilitate participation of foreign
and domestic private sector enterprises in developing the
petroleum sector.
Prolect
DescriRtion:       The project comprises the following major components:
(a) Investments in eauipment and materials to increase the
production  of  natural  gas.    The  project  would  cover
development and rehabilitation of existing gas fields, gas
compression, and delineation and evaluation of gas fields
discovered in recent years; expansion of transmission and
storage facilities to transport the additional gas and respond
to load fluctuations; and gas treatment and desulfurization
facili4ties and technologies; and
(b) Technical assistance through consultancy services, staff
training and studies to enhance management and production
efficiency within the gas sector.



- viii -
Benefigs:   The project would result in a total increase in gas production (high
methane equivalent) by at least 30 billion m3 and condensate
production by 0.37 Mt through the year 2010; the maximum incremental
annual output would be 2.4 billion r  of gas and 40,000 tons of
condensate. Expressed in millions of tons of (exportable) hard coal
equivalent (Mtce), total incremental production would be at least
36 Mtce on an energy equivalency basis. Most of the incremental gas
output will be low in sulfur and the project would finance
installation of gas treatment and desulfurization units. The project
would also have major environmental benefits, since it would
encourage increased use of gas; the switch from coal to gas will
significantly reduce total emissions of carbon and sulfur dioxide
and particulates. The project would, on an annual basis, reduce air
pollution in Poland by a mirimum of 240,000 tons of ash, 50,000 tons
of sulfur dioxide, 8,000 tons of carbon monoxide, 20,000 tons of
nitrogen oxide and 3,100,0C0 tons of carbon dioxide during 1994-
2010.   Additional benefits would arise  from the  transmission
component of the project (reduced losses) and from the technical
assistance component.
Risks:      The main risk associated with the project is the possibility of
delayed gas price increases needed both to ensure that consumers
receive the proper economic signals as well as to generate the
necessary enterprise cash flow.  This risk is manageable, given the
Government's commitmert to energy price reform as evidenced in recent
energy price measures and its policy dialogue with the Bank. The
market for additional gas output is assured, as is the market for
Polish export coal.  Therefore, the project's economic risks are
low.  Drilling risks (losing the well and equipment during drilling)
are limited due to PGNG's _xtensive experience and because modern
equipment would be introduced under the project. Adequate training
will be provided in the use of this equipment.  Geological risks
(the degree of probability of the gas being present and producible
in the expected quantities) are limited because the infill wells
will oe drilled in producing fields with known gas accumulations.
Appraisal wells will be drilled near wells which have proven the
presence of a gas bearing reservoir. Development and rehabilitation
of existing fields is based or. a thoroughly monitored field
production history without major operational difficulties. Although
there will probably be an initial delay in procurement due to the
lack of experience of the Borrower and the country with the Bank's
procurement proced"res, this is expected to affect only the start-
up period. The risk of future procurement delays has been minimized
by: (a) the establishment of a procurement unit for the project,
which received training by Bank staff; and (b) tight reporting
schedules on procurement progress during supervision.



- ix-
Estimated Costs:
(USS Mibn)
11 , Fon!n    TLd
SOL"*i                                                     00     28       2U
GM PModKIo                                               172.0   149.5   32L5
St, hr RPecov                                            10.0    18.7    287
TransmLs    *nd Dlsbmaton                                55       57      110.2
Teehnka Asslsane aM Traln                                 2.7    6.1 .S
BASE COSTS                       U92                             498M0
Physbl ContingencIs                                      12.0    13.1    25.1
Price Contlngmutees                                      45.S    47.8    933
TGTAL PROJELT COST                              Lg      319.7 
Financing Plan:
(USS Milion)
L11!  Forela     Total
IBRD                                                       -     25Q0    250.0
EEIB                                                              60.0    60.0
PGNG                                                    296.       9.7   306CA
T4JLAL                                          E19.7             16
Estimated Disbursements:
(USS Mmlon)
Annud                          23A      482      s4      57       458      24J
Cumulae                        23A      71A    127.0   1797    225.    250.
Pe tage                         9%      29%     51%      72%      90%    100%
Economic Rate of  Return:              37X.
Mao                               :    IBRD-22056



POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Since early 1980 Poland has fas'ed a severe economic crisis, whLeh
has also been reflected in a major convertible currency debt problem. To improve
this situation, the Polish Government introduced, on January 1, 1990, a
stabilization and adjustment program to restore creditworthiness and to enable
Poland to resume sustainable growth. This program is, inter alia, expected to
provide the policy environment necessary to induce energy efficiency in the
medium term.   Simultaneously,  the Government gives the highest priority to
measures to slow down the decline in hard coal exports.  To these ends, the
Government has sought Bank assistance to develop a sound energy policy and has
requested Bank financing for increased production of natural gas and for support
of energy sector restructuring. Through energy conservation and fuel switching,
notably increased utilization of natural gas for household heating and at a later
stage for power generation and district heating, the project would aiso make a
major direct contribution towards reducing Poland's pressing environmental
problems.
1.02        The energy sector is one of the largest sectors of the Polish
economy. Energy sector investment during 1986-90 amounted to 12% of total
investments, or about 45% of investments in industry and energy. Coal is the
country's single largest export product. At the same time, coal provides about
three quarters of all primary energy consumed in Poland. Energy intensity is
about 3 times higher than in other countries at a comparable level of
development, in part because energy pricing policies and the corporate financial
framework did not provide incentives for energy efficiency in the past. Coal
production is decl- -ng, while domestic consumption increased in recent years
at 0.3% per annum.   The result is an ongoing and projected decline in coal
exports and, with it, a decline in convertible currency earnings. Access to
adequate amounts of foreign exchange could substantially increase gas production,
which would slow down the rate of decline in hard coal exports.
1.03        The proposed Bank loan of US$ 250 million to the Polish Oil and Gas
Company (PGNG) would meet a major part of the foreign exchange needs of the
project.  Cofinancing by the European Investment Bank (EIB) in the amount of US$
60 million would cover virtually all the remaining foreign exchange requirements.
The Bank loan would cover 41% of the total project cost. The local costs and
remaining foreign exchange costs would be covered uy PGNG's net internal cash
generation and by borrowings from local banks where necessary.
1.04        The project was appraised in March 1988 and reappraised in October
1989, following extensive sector work and joint analysis of the energy sector
with Polish authorities from October 1986 onwards. Negotiations took place in
April, 1990. Project development involvea memoers of tne Industry and Energy
divisions of both the Country and Technical Departments of EMENA and of the
Technical Department of Asia, two ESHAP Units of PRE, as well as several
consultants.
1.05        Additional documents and more detailed information concerning the
sector and the project are available in the Project File (Annex 1).



-2-
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. The Economic Environment V
2.01        After rapid economic expansion during the 1970s, Poland enLered the
1980s with a declining output level, a very difficult social situation, and an
untenable balance of payments deficit with converti"le currency countries. By
1982, domestic output amounted to only about three quarters of the 1978 peak
level. To overcome these severe economic problems, the Government launched in
the early 1980s a series of economic reform measures which were not successful.
The increasing difficulties culminated in early 1989 in political reform and in
renewed econonic reforms leading toward the introduction of a market economy.
2.02        The economic reform which began in 1982 had as its objective the
decentralization of economic planning with an increased role for market
mechanisms. However, the political and social crisis prevented the Government
from fully pursuing many of the proposed measures. As a result, the Government
continued for most of the 1980s to exercise a major role in pricing and
allocation of resources at the microeconomic level. By mid-1986, the Government
sought to revitalize the reform process by launching a "second stage" of the
reform program.  The core of this program focused on implementing important
relative price realignments, including p'ice increases ranging between 55% and
200% for i-,;sic products such as coal, gas and electricity.   However,  the
Governm-e.- .-is not able to obtain the political support necessary for the rapid
implement.~.J on of the reform. It was only in the second half of 1988, mainly
as a result of the worsening economic situation, that important policy measures
aiming at liberalizing the economy were adopted. In addition, new efforts to
achieve social consensus were made, which culminated in 1989 in far reaching
agreements on political as well as economic reforms.
2.03        Recovery since 1982 has been very slow; GDP in 1988 was still about
1% short of the 1978 level, and GDP per capita was about 6% less. While internal
balances have improved, with rationing eliminated for most consumer goods and
the scope of central allocation of materials and energy progressively reduced,
shortages persist and the price structure is still distorted. Poland continues
to face serious and escalating economic problems. Inflation during 1989 exceeded
200% (compared with 74% in 1988 and 25% in 1987), mostly as a result of lax
monetary and fiscal policies adopted jointly with the 1988 price realignment
program. Poland also still has a serious problem in managing its external debt,
and in restoring the country's creditworthiness.
2.04        A new Government took office in August 1989. In January 1990, a new
stabilization and adjustment program was adopted with the support of both the
Bank and thc Fund. The program liberalized about 90% of domestic prices, cut
subsidies and imposed a major devaluation. The program would restructure ai.d
privatize a significant portion of existing state enterprises, transform the
Polish economy into a market economy and establish a program to normalize
relations with Poland's current creditors. Additional Bank support for this
An updated Country Bre was disbuted to the Board as part of regular updatng procedures. A Country Economic
Menmandum: 'Poland - Economlc Management for a New Era. World Bank Repout No. 7999POL. January 19. 1990 was
also dIsributed to the Boad.



program would be provided under a proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL),
which is scheduled for Board presentation during calendar year 1990.
B. The Energy Sector
(a)  Overview
2.05        Poland's energy sector consists of four subsectors:  two energy
producing subsectors (hard coal/lignite and oil/gas) and two energy conversion
subsectors (electric power and district heating). Together, these subsectors
accounted for about 12X of the country's total investments, or about 45% of
industrial investments (includir;g energy) over the period 1986-1990, distributed
as follows: (a) hard coal and lignite (52%); electricity (32%); district heating
(12%); and gas (4%).  The energy sector accounts on average for about 13% of
GDP and directly employs 850,000 persons (5% of the working population).  Hard
coal accounts for 84% of primary energy production in Pclaud, lignite for 11%
and natural gas for 3%.  Corresponding consumption figures are 68% for hard
coal, 11% for lignite, 8% for gas, and the remaining 13% for imported oil.
2.06        Poland is the fourth largeit coal producer and exporter in the world.
Hard coal production in 1988 amounted to 192 million tons (Mt), but dropped to
178 Mt in 1989 due to the introduction of a five-day work week in the mines.
Prospects for increasing economical hard coal production are virtually non-
existent; the outlook is for a gradually continuing production decline. Exports
of hard coal are the sin-le largest source of Poland's foreign currency earnings.
About 31 Mt of hard coal was exported in 1988, equivalent to 10% of Poland's
total export earnings, or 12% of convertible currency export earnings.  However,
in 1989 coal exports declined to 29 Mt, of which 16.3 Mt went to convertible
currency countries. Coal is exported to CMEA as well as to convertible currency
countries in a fairly stable 40/60 ratio. The volume and value of exports to
both has been declining in recent years and is expected to continue to decline.
Coal exports are only about 17% of total coal production and therefore very
sensitive to minor variations in domestic demand. Given this multiplier effect
and the instability of dollar-linked energy prices, coal's contribution to the
balance of payments will be variable but could remain extremely important if the
proper measures are taken.   Lignite production in 1989 was 71.8 Mt.   Since
lignite is not a readily tradeable commodity, virtually all of it is consumed
domestically. Modest increases in lignite production are still feasible through
expansion or if another mine is developed, but the most likely scenario is one
of production gradually declining due to depletion of reserves.
2.07        Natural gas is Poland's second largest domestic energy resource.
However, this resource remains largely untapped due to a traditional emphasis
on coal and a shortage of investment funds. Domestic gas production declined
rapidly from 8.0 billion e3 in 1978 to 5.4 billion e3 in 1988; currently 56% of
the tnt-al gSs  tiInnlv i. impnorted from the USSR.  Domestic production can be
significantly increased through the utilization of improved technology and
equipment in currently producing areas.  Given Poland's high prospectiveness
for natural gas, more intensive exploration efforts, using the latest
technologies in cooperation with experienced international oil companies under
joint venture agreements, could yield high returns.
2.08        Qil has been found in a 1:10 ratio to natural gas but, due to
reservoir characteristics and production economics, production has been



- 4 -
exclusively in association with gas and is not expected to significantly increase
in the future. Domestic production supplies only 1X of Poland's oil consumption.
(b) Energy Balance
2.09        Current Demand and SuRply.  Hard coal and lignite accounted in 19io
for 95X of primary energy supply in P-land and about 791 of primary energy
consumption, the difference being due to exports of hard coal. These percentages
have been fairly stable over time. Coal's share in consumption is very high by
international standards, even in comparison with other major coal producers.
Poland is about 3 times as energy intensive as other countries at similar levels
of development. Thir has major implications for industrial costs and for the
environment in Poland.
2.10        In physical terms, energy imports (mainly oil and gas from the Soviet
Union) ore only slightly higher than energy exports (mainly hard coal and coke).
However, given the higher value o_' oil and gas per energy unit, the balance of
Poland's energy trade would be highly negative if conducted at international
prices. Most energy exports go to convertible currency customers (61X of coal
export receipts in 1988), while most energy imports (81X of oil and gas import
payments  in 1988)  are obtained under more  favorable barter arrangctilel.'s.
Proposed changes in CMEA arrangements towards trading at international pric3 s
would adversely affect the energy component of Poland's trade balance.
2.11        Future Energy Options.  The 1995 energy balance projections prepared
by the Polish Academy of Sciences (Annex 2-1) treat both coal exports and gas
imports as balancing items. The underlying assumption is a decline in economic
growth in 1989, followed by slow growth throughout the 1990s. Two variants are
considered.   In the first ('low coal') variant, coal output is based on the
present 5-day work week for coal mines. In the secoad ('high coal') variant,
it is assumed that the mines return to a 6-day work week. The second variant
was retained for the sensitivity tests.
2.12        Poland currently expects gas imports to remain constant at a level
much lower than needed to meet potential demand.  In this 'high coal/low gas
imports' case, fuel switching from coal to gas is constrained by the gas supply
and coal exports are correspondingly lower.   The main conclusions from this
scenario are that the lower anticipated economic growth rates reduce the growth
of energy demand and that, with the project and assuming resumption of a six-
day production week in the hard coal industry, hard coal ex-3orts could be in the
range of 15-18 Mt per year by 1995. The impact of the prope.:ed project, assuming
constant gas imports, is illustrated in Graph 2-1.
2.13        Assuming reintroduction of a 6-day work week in the coal sector,
the proposed project is expected to) result in an annual increase in hard coal
export earnings of about TTS   135 mIllion at current prices (equivalentL to 3.4
Mt of coal per annum) under both the high gas and low gas import scenarios.
Given the production constraints on coal and lignite and the fact that increased
gas production '4ill not be sufficient to meet demand, increased energy efficiency
throughout the economy constitutes in the medium term the most effective means
for slowing down the decline  in coal exports.    The Government's  energy
conservation program has so far been based on centrally determined investments
in the manufacturing of energy efficient products, materials and processes, plus
a set of fiscal incentives and direct measures to encourage enterprises to



- 5 -
purchase these and to initiate their own energy conservation measures. However,
improved energy pricing policies, hard budgets for state enterprises, and
enforcement of the bankruptcy law are expected to have a much greater impact than
previous measures and could signiAicantly add to the amount of Polish hard coal
available for export.
PROJECT IMPACT ON HARD COAL EXPORTS
Production based on 6-day working week
Year 1995
High Gas Import  i Low Gas Import
In Mlilon tons
Hard Coal Export Revenues (in US $ MA)
701
Is  566                          603
467
10                              1
6 
Without Project       With Project
GRAPH 2-
(c) Energy Pricing
2.14        The single most important issue in the energy sector is to get the
relative prices of different forms of energy (coal, oil/gas, lignite, power and
heat/steam) right, in order to encourage rational fuel choices. Simultaneously,
the absolute price levels should be raised in order to encourage energy
conservation, enhance the supply of energy, and ensure the financial viability
of energy sector enterprises without reliance on subsidies. For each form of
energy, an appropriate tariff structure should be designed.  As part of the
Bank'r sector and project preparation dialogue the current status of energy
pricing in Poland (and the energy pricing reforms to be considered) has been
discussed wivh the Government.   Energy prices were increased by 353-600X on
January 1, 1990.  The main features of the current price structure are:
(i)   Domestic prices of the most commonly used grade of steam coal
for power generation and large industry are in the range 29-
39% of their quality-adjusted values in relation to export
coals, while lump coal for households is in the 43-63% range;
(ii) Other household energy prices may need to be increased by
factors ranging from 7.5 times (for electricity) to around 20
times (for gas and heat), to bring them into the proper
relationship to the border price of coal plus an appropriate
share of the cost of transmission and distribution;
(iii) While gas, electricity and fuel oil prices to industry are



- 6 -
currently at satisfactory levels in relacion to the current
domestic price of coal, these prices will need to be increased
by factors of 2 to 3 times as domestic coal prices progress
towards export parity.
2.15        The price of gas in relation to coal will need special attention
during the period following introduction of the unified exchange rate.  Fuel
prices (coal, gas and oil) have been moving towards international prices at
different speeds, while electricity prices remain tied to local costs of
production. In particular, relaAive energy prices should be brought in line with
ec3nomic levels, e.g. gas prices should be higher than coal but much less than
electricity, and gas prices should be close to the (pre-tax) price of heating
oil (para 2.27).
2.16        Further Information on the energy market in Poland is provided in
Annex 2-2 and on enerVy pricing in Annex 2-3.
(d) Sector Structure
2.17        The energy sector was substantially restructured on October 24, 1987
by act of Parliament. The Ministry of Mines and Energy was dissolved. Sector
responsibility was transferred to a reorganized and downsized Ministry of
Industry. At the same time, the hard coal and power sectors were reorganized
and further centralized in an effort to reduce administrative overhead. All 68
hard coal mining enterprises (which until then had been grouped into eigl,' mining
associations) with associated repair and maintenance workshops, and 28 mining
equipment manufacturing plants and mine construction companies, were brought
under the control of a new entity, the Hard Coal Board (Wspolnota Wegla
Kamiennego - WWK). The lignite mines and associated workshops (grouped in the
Lignite Mining Association) were transferred from the coal to the power sector
and merged into a newly created Power and Lignite Board (Wspolnota Eiiergetyki
i Wegla Brunatnego -WEWB), along with the five regional power production and
distribution  companies,  power  equipment  manufacturing  enterprises  and
construction enterprises. The gas sector was not affected since the Polish Oil
and Gas Company (Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo-PGNG) already had been
converted in 1983 into a vertically integrated structure comprising 22 semi-
autonomous gas production, distribution, manufacturing and exploration
enterprises (para 4.02).
2.18        All three centralized energy sector entities have a Supervisory
Council consisting of 25 members, representing the Government, the employees
and the consumers. Like all state enterprises, they are ultimately subject to
state supervision and control in accordance with the Law on State Enterprises.
The general managers of WWK, WEWB and PGNG are appointed by the Minister of
Industry. Managers are generally well qualified and have experience in the
industry. The Ministry of Industry is responsible for ensuring that the energy
sector entities meet the objectives of the national energy policy. Although the
autonomy of energy sector entities has been greatly increased recently, given
the shortage of investvent funds all Aajor investment proposals still have to
be submitted to the Ministry of Industry, the Central Planning Office eand the
Ministry of Finance for approval. The latter is responsible for ensuring the
availability of subsidized forms of financing (grants or low interest rate loans)
for centrally-financed investments (para 6.06) and decides on tariff increases.



2.19        The district heating sector is the only energy subsector that remains
completely decentralized. Fifty individual district heating enterprises provide
steam, hot water and space heating to the largest urban areas and industries in
Poland. With one exception (the combined heat-power plant in Lodz, which is part
of WEWB), these enterprises are owned by the voivodships or municipalities
concerned.    Loose  supervisory control  is exercised by  the Ministry of
Construction.   Professional contacts are maintained through membership in a
voluntary Association of District Heating Enterprises.
(e) Sector Restructuring and Regulatory Framework
2.20        In its policy dialogue with the Government the Bank has recommended
that decentralization of the mining sector would be required in order to promote
competition between mines and in the sales and distribution of coal. At the same
time, the Bank noted that coordination is necessary in the power and gas sectors,
which may favor a certain degree of centralization. However, in January 1989
WWK introd-aced further centralization by grouping the eight mining associations
into four mining enterprises, merging the equipment manufacturers, and absorbing
the previously independent coal sales and distribution company Weglokoks (which
is also responsible for coal exports).   In contrast,  WEWB decentralized
completely into 110 companies, each having a degree of autonomy that makes
effective coordination difficult. Similar proposals have been made (but not yet
implemented) for the gas sector.
2.21        In  view  of  the  current  debate  within  Poland  regarding
demonopolization of tne hard coal, gas and power sectors, the Bank and the
Government agreed that thorough studies with the assistance of outside experts
are urgently required in order to formulate realistic recommendations for an
optimal sector structure. These studies are aimed at increasing efficiency and
competition, both within and between the different energy subsectors.   The
options to be considered range from relatively simple restructuring measures to
state-of-the-art contractual arrangements that are being introduced in some
countries. Regardless of the ownership forms to be recommended as a result of
these studies, the new entities should be subject to the discipline of
competition. Demonopolization of the coal sector is ur-,ently required, but the
optimal grouping of mines into independent and competing units, the
implementation program and a program to alleviate possible social consequences
deserve  careful  consideration.    In  contrast,  retaining  some  degree  of
concentration in the upstream production and transmission of gas and power
appears desirable, but this could be combined with extensive divestiture of
distribution, manufacturing and service companies that are now part of the
vertically integrated gas and power companies.  Significant cost-cutting and
efficiency improvement measures should be taken in the remaining organizations
to ensure that energy will be delivered at the lowest possible cost.
2.22        Regulatory framework.  As part of the sector restructuring exercise
and the general move towards a market economy, a proper regulatory framework
should be designed for the gas and power sectors. At present there is no clear
framework governing sales, consumer relations, competition, industrial
cogeneration and pricing. The relationships between the gas and power companies
and their respective consumers are governed by mutual agreements rather than
being based on a clear definition of obligations. Similar vagueness applies to
the pricing system, where ad hoc pricing proposals are forwarded to the Ministry
of Finance.  The latter now takes pricing decisions on the basis of factors



other than the pricing structure's relationship with border prices or other
domestic energy prices. In an improved regulatory system, tariff studies would
be prepared by the gas and power sectors and tariff proposals would be approved
or modified by a regulatory authority.
2.23        During project preparation it was agreed that, in parallel with the
proposed project, sector restructuring studies would be undertaken for the hard
coal, power and lignite, district heating, and oil and gas subsectors under terms
of reference and with consultants satisfactory to the Bank. Financing on a grant
basis is being provided by the British Government. ESMAP is managing the sector
restructuring studies for the gas, power and coal sectors through its Natural
Gas Development Unit and its Energy Efficiency and Strategy Unit respectively.
All studies are expected to be completed and submitted for review to the Bank
by December 31,1990.   Assurances were obtained from the Government that,
following the development of restructuring programs for the gas and oil, power
and lignite, di;;trict heating and hard coal sectors, the Government would, after
consultation wich the Bank, implement these programs starting on June 30, 1991.
C. Bank Assistance Strateav
2.24        The Bank's overall strategy in Poland is to support the long-term
objectives of the Government, namely, to improve the efficiency and productivity
of the economy, to promote growth, to improve socio-economic conditions and to
implement reforms towards a market economy. Bank involvement also focuses on
helping to improve the balance of payments and enhancing the country's
creditworthiness. The Bank's and the Government's strategy in the energy sector
aims at improving energy-related convertible currency earnings and at
significantly reducing environmental pollution in Poland.
2.25        The energy sector in Poland is extremely distorted and complex.
Subsidies -direct and hidden, and to both producers and consumers- pervade the
sector. In general energy prices are too low, particularly for households (para
2.14), and relative energy prices are highly distorted in comparison with the
patterns observed in nearby market economies. As a result, coal plays a much
larger role in domestic consumption than is justified by economic considerations,
particularly when environmental costs are taken into account.   The present
transition towards a market economy should be accompanied by a major shift in
energy consumption towards gas and oil.
2.26        There has been an intensive dialogue between the G3vernment and the
Bank about macroeconomic, energy sector and environmental priorities since late
1986. As a result, the major macroeconomic adjustments of January 1990 put in
place a macroeconomic framework that favors fundamental reforms in all sectors.
Parallel reforms in the industrial sector are leading to greater financial
discipline and cost-consciousness among energy consumers. This is an essential
pre-condition for energy pricing reforms to translate into effective energy
conservation.
2.27        Bank assistance would support the Government's program consisting
of energy pricing reform, energy conservation and fuel-switching from coal to
gas and oil. This is desirable not only for economic reasons but also as an
essential part of an effective strategy for environmental protection. The key
next steps are: (a) progressive elimination of all energy subsidies; (b) a move
towards domestic energy prices that are broadly in line with international energy



prices; (c) increased domestic production of gas; (d) increased efficiency in
the energy sector in part through restructuring of sectoral institutions; and
(e) increased private sector participation in developing energy resources.
2.28        The sector assistance strategy to be implemented through the proposed
Energy Resource Development Project and the associated ESMAP program incorporates
the following principal elements:
(i)   assisting in financing measures to increase production and
distribution of natural gas as a hard coal substitute;
(ii)  encouraging  energy  conservation  and  efficiency  through
assistance in designing and implementing an appropriate energy
pricing policy, detailing the specific steps to be taken
regarding realignment of industrial and household gas prices,
and preparing a gas development plan;
(iii) enhancing efficiency in energy production and conversion
through the development and implementation of energy sector
restructuring programs; and
(iv)  providing direct assistance in developing a legal, fiscal and
contractual framework for private sector participation in
Poland's oil and gas sector.
Continued progress in energy price reform is also part of the dialogue under the
Bank's proposed first Structural Adjustment Loan, which would provide a framework
for subsidy removal in the et.ergy secter and a managed transition towards parity
with international energy prices (para 2.15). A proposed series of future energy
supply  restructuring  and  co-nservation  projects  would  further  support
implementation of the recomn'cndations of the energy subsector restructuring
studies and improved energy efficiency and environmental performance in the main
energy conversion industries (electric power, district heating and oil refining)
as well as in the main energy consuming industries.
111. THE COAL AND GAS SECTORS
A. Hard Coal
3.01        Production and Consumption.  Poland is the fourth largest producer
of hard coal in the world. Until 1988 the country produced on average 191 Mt
of coal per annum but, due to the introduction of a five-day work week in the
mines, output in 1989 dropped to 178 Mt. Average mining depth is already 600
meters and increases by 8-10 meters per year and, with it, the cost of
production. It will be difficult to maintain present output levels. Replacement
capacity coming on stream over the next 5-10 years will not compensate for old
capacity being depleted or shut down.
3.02        Despite stagnant production levels, domestic hard coal consumption
increased by about 1.5% per annum during 1976-1982 and by 0.3% per annum through
1989. About 31% of total production is used for electricity generation, 32% for
industry, 15% for district heating, and 5% for other domestic users. Only about



- 10 -
17% of total production is being exported (para 3.04).
3.03        Productivity.  The hard coal sector employed 595,000 persons as of
end 1988.   The mines  alone employed 429,000 persons,  64% of whom work
underground. Miners' wages are about double the national average, but several
times lower than those earned by coal miners in the West.  A relatively low
cost, skilled and productive labor force is the most significant comparative
advantage of the Polish hard coal industry. All mines are highly mechanized
and longwall production is predominant.   Underground productivity, at 3.3 tons
per manshift, is about 30% lower than in the West Germany and the UK, partly due
to the more difficult geological conditions. Production in most mines appears
economic at current wage levels.  The total capacity of uneconomic mines is
estimated to be at least 17 Mt.
3.04        Exports. With hard coal exports of 31.2 Mt in 1988, representing
about 10% of the world coal trade, Poland ranks fourth in export volume behind
Australia, the US ane South Africa. The value of Polish coal exports in 1988
was equivalent to about 10% of the country's total export earnings (12% of hard
currency export earnings). However, coal exports have declined from 42.9 Mt in
1984 to 31.2 Mt in 1988 and to 28.9 Mt in 1989. Even assuming that a 6-day work
week is reintroduced, exports are expected to decline to about 18 Mt per year
by 1995. Therefore, unless hard coal substitutes are used on a large scale and
energy conservation becomes widespread, future coal exports cannot be maintained
at the present level.
3.05        Investments.  Investments equivalent to about US$ 3.0 billion would
have been required during 1986-90 to maintain production levels of 195 Mt per
annum through the year 2000. However, actual investment levels have been only
about two-thirds of that amount, which was only adequate to keep existing mines
operating at about their present production levels. Partly as a result of the
shortage of investment funds and partly at the Bank's urging not to proceed with
uneconomic investments, plans for new mines have been shelved and construction
of the Bogdanka and Stefanow mines (68% and 17% completed respectively) was
stopped in 1988. Additional sector information is provided in Annex 3-1.
B. UgnIte
3.06        Production.  Lignite is produced from 7 opencast mines managed by
four lignite mining companies, using mostly continuous excavation systems.
Production increased from about 38 Mt in 1982 to 71.8 Mt in 1989. This rapid
build-up is mainly due to the coming on-stream of the giant Belchatow mine,
which has an ultimate capacity of 38 Mtpa.   With one exception (para 3.09)
expansion possibilities are limited because most proven reserves have unfavorable
geological settings. It is expected that, without investments in new mines or
expansions, the production level could be approximately maintained until the year
2000 and would gradually decline thereafter due to depletion of reserves.
3.07        Consumption.   Lignite's calorific value is low and its moisture
content high. Because of its low energy content and high transportation cost
in relation thereto, combined with a tendency to spontaneous combustion, lignite
is not a readily tradeable commodity. Its use is therefore limited to specially
designed mine mouth power plants which consume about 95% of the total lignite
production, with the remainder being consumed by industry.



- 11 -
3.08        Productivity.  The lignite mines employed about 30,000 persons as
of the end of 1988. Overall productivity is around 15 tons/manshift, with
productivity at the very large Belchatow mine about 28 tons/manshift. This is
comparable to productivity in West Germany of over 35 tons/manshift, in view of
the differences in geological conditions ar.d work performed by subcontractors
there.
3.09        Investments.  Lignite in-^stments during 1986-90 were essentially
for completion of the Belchatow and Konin mines and for maintaining production
levels at existing mines. There is only one more new lignite investment under
consideration: development of the 30 Mtpa Szczercow mine, adjacent to Belchatow.
Szczercow would replace the Belchatow mine in the long-run, while increasing the
total output of Belchatow Mining Company in the medium-run. This project was
initiall- part of the present 5-year plan, but was postponed due to lack of
funds. Additional sector information is provided in Annex 3-1.
C. Oil and Gas
(a) Oil
3.10        Detailed information on the oil and gas sector is shown in Annex 3-
2.   Oil production in Poland is small and supplies only about 1% of domestic
consumption. Production reached 584,500 tons per year in 1975 and has dropped
to 162,800 tons per year at present.  Oil imports are in the 15 Mt per annum
range and tctal local refining capacity is also 15 Mt. Most oil is imported from
the USSR (12.7 Mt in 1988); the remainder is bought on the open market. The USSR
is cutting back on its long-term delivery commitments and has indicated that,
starting in 1991, deliveries would be at world market prices. Poland increased
oil imports from OPEC countries to 2.6 Mt in 1989, much of it through
countertrade arrangements. There are also some imports of refined products.
3.11        Gasoline rationing was eliminated in 1988 but, de facto, still exists
because of a decision to limit oil imports.   The market for diesel oil for
vehicles currently appears to be more in balance.  Consumption of diesel oil
and fuel oil for industry and heating is very low by West European standards.
This is due partly to pricing policies: petroleum products have long been sold
at prices equivalent to hard currency prices (at the official exchange rate) plus
a substantial tax. In contrast, other fuels have not been taxed and have often
been subsidized.
(b) Gas
3.12        Poland's natural gas production (high methane equivalent) is of much
greater importance than its oil production. Natural gas production peaked in
1978 with an annual rate of 6.7 billion m3 but, since then, it has declined
steadily to about 4.0 billion e3 in 1989.   Unless current productivity is
substantially enhanced and new fields are put on stream, production will decline
to approximately 2.9 billion m3 by 1995 and to 2.0 billion m3 by the year 2000.
Total  gas production,  including natural  gas,  coke oven  gas   and other
manufactured gases, declined by 35% over the last 10 years (from 8.0 billion m3
in 1978 to 5.4 billion m3 in 1988). Local production currently supplies 44% of
domestic gas consumption. The remainder is imported from the USSR, increasing
from 2.5 billion e3 in 1975 to 7.0 billion m3 in 1988.



- 12 -
3.13        Gas consumption grew steadily from 7.5 billion m3 in 1975 to 12.4
billion e3 in 1988 and is expected to increase to at least 16 billion m3 by the
year 2000. Potential demand is much larger (para 3.23) but would require large
investments as well as increased imports of gas. Households presently account
for 28% of total gas consumption and industry for 64%, notably steel and chemical
industries which require very high temperatures. Although industrial gas prices
are much closer to economic cost than prices of competing fuels (coal and
district heat), there is considerable excess demand for gas in industry. The
central energy allocation system allocates negligible amounts of gas for power
generation and district heat production and can impose day to day rationing on
industry during winter. Household use of gas in urban areas is generally limited
tt cooking, because space heating and hot water are provided by district heating
networks.   The gas development plan envisaged under the project (para 5.06)
would, inter alia, review potential gas demand and supply scenarios and the
allocation of gas to the most economic uses.
3.14        Reserves. Poland's major identified and potential gas reserves are
in the Carpathian and in the Central Lowlands (Map IBRD 22056). The prospective
reserve area covers 257,000 square kilometers or 82% of the country.   In the
Central Lowlands there are 20 billion m3 of identified and as yet undeveloped
reserves and 70 billion e3 identified reserves from which production has already
been started. In South East Poland reserves in these same catce^:ies are 9 and
53 billion e3 respectively. These identified reserves would be the major source
of the increased gas production under the proposed project (Annex 3-3).
3.15        PGNG's strategy in locating reserves focuses on currently producing
areas. In general, structures are numerous but small and require high resolution
mapping techniques to delineate remaining traps around and between producing
fields.  Equipment needed for these technologies is only partly available in
Poland. Therefore, the possibilities for foreign participation in oil and gas
exploration are currently actively being pursued. However, a legal framework
for joint ventures in the oil and gas sector does not yet exist. The mining and
geological laws address only coal and mineral mining by domestic enterprises and
a petroleum law is only in the early draft stage. In addition, agreements on
the offtake (i.e. the domestic price) of the oil and gas that would eventually
be produced will be a basic element in joint venture contracting (Annex 3-4).
In parallel with the project, assistance will be provided by ESMAP in preparing
the legal, fiscal and contractual framework for participation of the private
sector in the development of the Polish oil and gas sector (para 5.08).
3.16        Several deep high pressure discoveries have been made in recent
years but could not be conclusively evaluated and put into production, either
because reservoir conditions could not be met with existing equipment or because
the gas sulfur content requires desulfurization processes and equipment currently
not available in the country. As a result, several deep geological structures
remain unexplored. In this context Amoco will conduct, under one of the first
exploration agreements by a Western company in Eastern Europe, a 12-month study
to evaluate Polish oil and gas prospects covering existing data on more than 51
million acres.
3.17        Productivity.  PGNG employs about 46,500 generally well qualified
staff, but productivity in some areas is low. Although the lack of financial
incentives plays a role, this is primarily due to the lack of adequate equipment.
PGNG has 110 mostly old drilling rigs, of which about 40 are at any time under



- 13 -
repair.   The remaining rigs drill on average 4,000-5,000 meters per year,
compared to Western standards of 12,000-15,000 meters for exploration and 25,000-
30,000 meters for production wells. Seismic crews produce only about 50% of the
p-:ofiles that would be produced by Western crews.   Efficiency is reduced by
cumbersome regulations on access to property and the obligation to completely
delineate a new field before this can be taken into production, resulting in
excessive well  drilling.    The  21,000  staff working  in  transmission and
distribution serve 5.7 million customers; this 1:271 ratio is comparable to
Western European standards.
3.,8        Proved in place reserves are estimated at about 250 billion m3, of
which about 75% are recoverable.  About half are undeveloped and require new
investment in order to be produced. Several recently discovered reservoirs have
a low effective permeability and require reservoir stimulation technology not
available  in Poland.   PGNG's equipment and expertise are  inadequate  for
maximizing production from partially depleted fields and for exploring and
developing the less obvious and more subtle hydrocarbon traps often found in deep
and complex geological formations. In order for PGNG to reduce the decline of
current production and to evaluate additional reserves, it will have to: (a)
begin replacing and upgrading its obsolete drilling and field servicing
equipment, drill new infill development wells based on modern well spacing
technology and rehabilitate old wells using modern down hole completion
equipment; (b) upgrade its technology for evaluating gas reserves through the
uFe of more accurate geophysical and testing equipment; (c) strengthen its
technical training programs; and (d) increase its reliance on service companies
where possible and needed.
(c) Gas Transmission and Distribution
3.19        Poland's gas transmission system consists of three major separate
systems and about one hundred small municipal systems. A high methane network
transmits and distributes natural gas.  A coke oven gas system exists in the
South. A third network transmits and distributes a medium heating value gas.
Each of these separate systems supplies gas directly to large inaustries or to
city networks.    In addition,  there are about 100 isolated networks  for
distributicn of manufactured gas or piped LPG to small townships. Production
of manufactured gas from coal is costly and its distribution is more expensive
because of the lower energy content per volume unit. For this reason, conversion
of these systems to natural gas is economical.  The total length of the gas
transmission and distribution network is about 40,000 km, serving 5.7 million
consumers. Details are shown in Annex 3-5.
(d) Gas Balance
3.20        Current demand and sunoly.  In 1988, the total gas supply amounted
to 12.4 billion e3 (high methane equivalent) of which about 44% was produced or
manufactured domestically and the balance imported from the USSR. The share of
indigenous natural gas production was 4.3 billion e3 (about 34% of total supply)
of which about 60% was produced in high-nitrogen gas fields and the balance in
the high-methane gas fields.
3.21        Tne industrial sector accounted for 64% of demand, of which about
two-thirds was used as fuel and the rest as feedstock. The households sector
accounted for 28% of demand with about equal shares for space heating and



- 14 -
cooking.   System losses are relatively high at 4%, which is largely due to
inadequate metering and monitoring devices. Under the proposed project (para
5.03) some 100 new meters would be installed for large industries.   This is
expected to reduce system losses to 2%; additional improvements under the project
in transmission and distribution are expected to further reduce these losses.
3.22        Future Demand and Supply.  Detailed forecasts of demand and supply
prepared by PGNG for 1990-2000 are shown in Annex 3-6. Under the low growth
scenario, a modest growth of 5.1% per annum is assumed for the household sector
(cooking only), with little or no growth for other sectors. Average demand would
grow at 2.1% per annum. Demand for gas, particularly in the household sector,
is high; there are currently sc-e 600,000 households on the waiting list. Even
based on this constrained demand, shortages would appear from 1992 on.  They
would reach a critical level by the year 2000 if imports are not increased from
the current level of 7.0 billion e3 to about 10.5 billion m3 in 2000.  Under
this scenario, gas demand would increase from about 13 billion m3 in 1989 to 16
billion m3 by the year 2000.
3.23        The principal assumptions for the high growth scenario are: (a)
demand growth of about 10% per annum between 1990 and 2000; (b) a sharp increase
in the supply of gas to households (14% per annum) and commercial sectors (8.3%
per annum) in order to meet demand and to substitute gas for coal-based
individual household space heating units and commercial boilers.   Coal-based
space heating units have a very low thermal efficiency, ranging from about 20%
(individual coal furnace) to 55Z (central boilers) and are a major source of air
pollution; (c) gas would be introduced to the power sector for the first time
from 1994 on with an average growth rate of about 70% per annum; and (d) the
industrial sector's gas consumption would not significantly increase, since coal-
based industrial consumers are capable of enhancing their thermal efficiency.
Under this scenario, gas demand would increase from about 13 billion m3 in 1989
to 35 billion m3 by the year 2000, ana the share of gas in total energy
consumption would increase from 7.6% to about 20%.
3.24          Both the low growth and the high growth scenarios are supply
constrained. The total gas utilization potential in Poland could be far higher
than 20%, since gradual replacement of district heating networks could provide
another large market. District heating, which was initially developed to recover
part of the thermodynamic losses of power plants, has now expanded to include
many other systems based on coal-fired boilers.  In addition to these systems
being energy-inefficient, their transmission pipes are suffering from severe
corrosion, with. resultant energy losses. This has result3d in a very low overall
thermal efficiency estimated at well under 50%. These and other possibilities
for the increased use of gas will be examined under the project's gas development
plan (para 5.06).
IV. THE BENEFICIARIES
A. Oranizatlon and Management
4.01        The Polish Oil and Gas Company (PGNG) would be the Borrower of the
proposed loan. The entity is generally well managed and capable of implementing
the proposed project.



- 15 -
4.02        PGNG is a vertically integrated company, comprising headquarters
plus 22 operating enterprises. The entity is responsible for all oil and gas
production in Poland, plus transmission and distribution of gas. The general
manager, appointed by the Minister of Industry, is assisted by a council of
managers comprising the principal directors at headquarters.   However, each
operating enterprise has its own management and a considerable degree of autonomy
accorded to it under separate agreement with headquarters.   Managers are
generally well qualified and have long experience in their respective fields.
The organization chart of PGNG is shown in Annex 4-1.
4.03        PGNG presently performs many activities that in market economies
would be carried out by outside contractors (e.g. drilling, seismic surveys,
pipeline engineering and construction).   Contractors for these services are
highly specialized and efficient and do not burden the finances of the company
when their services are not needed. Due to the absence of a contractor service
industry, the present structure of PGNG can not be changed immediately. However
PGNG should use contractual services as soon as available at competitive costs
and spin off some of its operating enterprises to that end (para 2.21). Another
difference between the organization of PGNG and that of international oil
companies relates to the supervision of exploration/drilling and production.
In PGNG's case, this is divided over four exploration/drilling and three
production companies. Since exploration and productior. use similar technical
staff working on much the same data, it would be more efficient to concentrate
these functions in combined exploration and production departments. The entity's
gas transmission and distribution organization by geographical area is in line
with that of gas utilities elsewhere.
B. Staff and Training
4.04        Staffing. PGNG's staff is generally well qualified. Staffing levels
are on the high side and could be reduced, particularly after more efficient
technologies and work methods have been introduced under the proposed project.
A set of efficiency indicators would be developed as part of a supervision action
plan, which would be closely monitored during project implementation (para 5.22).
4.05        Training.    Staff are  reasonably well  informed cf the  latest
technological developments, but need in specific instances training to use
efficiently some of the equipment to be provided under the project.   PGNG
provides virtually no formal training for its employees, partly due to lack of
funds and partly due to the absence of new methods and technologies. The entity
has only one training center, located about 140 km southeast of Krakow. The
center's activity focuses on introductory courses for newly recruited personnel,
which is limited in number given the low turnover rate of field personnel.
4.06        In order for the proposed project to fully meet its objectives,
training is considered a vital project component. Consequently, a provision of
about US$ 1.7 million has been included under the project for training. About
25 manmonths of external technical assistance would be provided by specialized
firms. These training consultants would assist PGNG to develop and implement
a comprehensive training program covering all facets of the oil and gas industry
and to train the in-house instructors. The objectives of the program are to:
(a) develop a flexible training program that can be redefined during project
implementation in order to respond to specific needs; (b) determine



- 16 -
specifications for training aids to be provided under the project (drilling
simulators, laboratory equipment, various models of equipment and manuals for
the instructors as well as for the trainees); and (c) train a sufficient number
of instructors for the regional operating enterprises in gas field development,
production, exploration, distribution, reservoir engineering and management.
Training assistance would consist of classroom instruction combined with on-the-
job training.   The remaining funds would be utilized to procure training
equipment such as simulators, laboratory instrumentation, text and audio-visual
equipment and materials. In addition to this formal training component, supply
and service companies involved in the project are expected to provide short-term
seminars to train field workers to operate the equipment they provide.
4.07        Wages and Salaries.  Wages and salaries (including bonuses) in the
gas sector are at the national average but have frequently been somewhat below
the salary levels in the power and industry sectors.  As a result, PGNG has
experienced in the past some staff turnover at lower levels, while financial
incentives for productivity increases were lacking. It is expected that, as a
result of the current economic reform, salaries would become more closely tied
to productivity and that management would obtain authority to set more graduated
pay levels.
C. Metering. Billing and Collection
4.08        The gas supply to all buildings is metered.  Industrial and other
large consumers are billed monthly with payments being made in advance every
five or ten days according to the supply contract; adjustments for actual
consumption are made at the end of each month. All household consumers who use
gas not only for cooking but also for heating are individually metered.
Consumption in 37,000 apartment buildings with collective meters is estimated
based on apartment size; this affects 850,000 households. The possibility of
installing individual meters in each household, which would enhance energy
conservation, will be studied under the gas development plan (para 5.06) and will
in part depend on adequate gas prices.   Meter reading and billing for household
consumers is done in most areas simultaneously with electricity, by the power
enterprises under contract with PGNG.
4.09        Household consumers in each region are divided into twelve groups.
The meters of each group are read once a year,the reading being taken during a
different month for each group.  Bills for the ensuing year are based on the
consumption of the previous year and must be settled 15 days prior to the end
of the bi-monthly billing period. Adjustments for actual consumption are made
on the first bill following meter reading.  Any adjustment for past interim
price increases is made at that time through the use of indices, except for
consumers whose new billing cycle coincided with the tariff increase. A steeply
progressive schedule of penalties for late payment and a Etrict disconnection
policy ensure that accounts receivable are kept to an average 16X (two months)
of revenues, which is satisfactory.
4.10        PGNG, as all other state enterprises in Poland, includes only cash
collected up to January 25 for bills relating to the previous calendar year as
revenue for that year.   Unpaid bills are excluded from revenue,  but an
appropriate downward adjustment is made against operating expenses.   Since
household consumer billing is based on estimated consumption (para 4.08), the
sales included in PGNG's income statement do not represent actual sales of gas



- 17 -
for the year.  However, the difference is not significant because 91% of all
sales revenue originates from industrial and other large consumers who are billed
monthly. Thus, any deviation from pure accrual accounting only applies to a
fraction of the remaining 9% of sales. However, this policy should be revised
as soon as housebold consumption beocomes more important due to the expected
future rise in household gas prices (para 6.14).
D. Other Aspects
4.11        Auditing.   Accounts are audited annually by independent auditors
according to a strict schedule. Final financial statements must be issued by
the end of May of each year; the latter must take into account relevant
corrections suggested by the auditor. Auditors are generally appointed by the
Finance Chambers (local offices of the Ministry of Finance), e: *-ept when the
supervisory Ministry has received delegated authority to do so, as is the case
in the energy sector. Auditors may not undertake audits for the enterprise where
they are employed. Random checks are made to verify the quality of the auditor's
work, both by the Finance Chambers as well as by the Polish Association of
Accountants. The audits are typical compliance audits which do not correspond
to the scope and content of audits normally expected by the Bank. Support for
training of Polish accountants and auditors is being provided under the
Industrial Export Development Project (Loan 3166-POL).  Accounting staff in both
sectors is generally qualified to keep tha books based on the existing system,
but considerable retraining and recruitment of qualified accountants would be
necessary before an accounting system based on generally accepted accounting
principles is introduced (para 6.03).
4.12        Management Information Systems. A good management information system
is lacking in PGNG. The absence of this is particularly strongly felt because
it is a large integrated enterprise where data from 22 subsidihridis throughout
the nation have to be centralized. In addition, steps need to be taken to ensure
that the acquisition of data processing systems is planned in a systematic
manner, in order to meet the future needs of the enterprise in a cost-effective
manner and to avoid investing in the wrong technologies.   A management
information system study and design of a data processing master plan should
follow implementation of sector restructuring (para 2.20) and reform of the
accounting system (para 6.03). Provision has been made for these studies under
the proposed project.
4.13        Insurance.  PGNG carries comprehensive insurance at replacement cost
on fixed assets and irnventory, including gas and crude oil inventories, and on
drilling activity. It covers all major risks, including environmental damage.
The policy is underwritten by the Polish national insurance company.   The
insurance company carries out periodic inspections to ensure compliance with
safety standards. These arrangements are satisfactory.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Oblectives and Scope
5.01        Objectives.  Given the Bank's assistance strategy in Poland (para
2.24), the project's objectives are to: (a) improve the energy-related



- 18 -
convertible currency earnings of Poland by (i) increasing domestic production
of natural gas and (ii) Ancouraging energy conservation for all forms of energy
and fuel substitution thl3ugh supporting energy price reform; (b) contribute to
a reduction of environmental pollution related to energy use; and (c) improv-
the competitive, regulatory and financial framework of the sector entities by
supporting the implementation of appropriate restructuring programs for the
coal, gas, power and heat sectors. In parallel with the project, the Bank/UNDP's
Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) would: (a) implement energy
sector restructuring studies and a gas pricing study; (b) implement studies to
optimize further development of the gas sector and assess its environmental
impact; aud (c) assist in preparing a contractual framework to facilitate
participation of foreign and domestic private sector enterprises in developing
the petroleum sector.
5.02        Project Scope.  The project, supported by a TJS$ 250 million Bank
loan plus US$ 60 million in cofinancing, includes the following major components:
(a) investments in eguinment and materials to increase the production of natural
gas.  The project would cover development and rehabilitation of existing gas
fields, gas compression and delineation and evaluation of gas fields discovered
in recent years; expansion of transmission and storage facilities to transport
the additional gas and respond to load fluctuations; and gas treatment and
desulfurization facilities and technologies; and (b) technical assistance through
consultancy services, staff training and studies to enhance management and
production efficiency within the gas sector.
B. Prolect Description
5.03          The project consists of upstream and downstream components, plus
a technical assistance component as follows:
(a)  Upstream Components
(i)   Gas Field Development and Rehabilitation (US$ 123 million).
This component would cover gas recovery improvement schemes
to in'rease production of existing gss fields through: (i)
infill and development drilling of approximately 250 wells;
(ii) rehabilitation of approximately iOOO wells; and (iii)
field gas compression in 4 fields to meet trunkline pressure.
The project would finance gas field miaterials and equipment
for well drilling and rehabilitation, reservoir stimulation
and production, well testing, field laborator7es and electric
logging and field gas compression;
(ii)  Gas Field Delineation (US$ 61 million).   Delineation and
evaluation of gas fields discovered in recent years through:
(i) appraisal drilling of approximately 40 wells; and (ii)
stimulation and long-term production testing of approximately
35 existing discovery and appraisal ;ells.    Fields were
selected for production potential and proximity to a collecting
gas trunk line.  Infill drilling will result in higher and
faster gas recovery by reducing the spacing between producing
wells. Production would be further increased by the
installation of improved underground production equipment on
these and already producing wells;



- 19 -
(iii)   Geophvsics (US$ 35 million). This component would provide high
multiplicity recording instruments for the field surveys and
corresponding computer hardware and software to more accurately
evaluate recent disciveries.   This is necessary for the
selection of the optimum location of infill wells for
production enhancement and of appraisal wells for the upgrading
of reserves. The work will be carried out within areas that
are currently producing or where producible reserves have
already been identified. Field recording would be enhanced
by the purchase of heavier vibrating trucks and high quality
geop'lones. New logging tools would improve the analysis of
the reservoirs and the accuracy of the perforation of
productive intervals;
(b)   DownstreaM Gomponents
(iv)   Supervisorv conLrol and data acquisition (SCADA) system (US$
17 million). Installation of a computerized SCADA system would
enable PGNG to continuously receive data from all major sources
of supply and demand. About 100 industrial consumers would
be equipped with modern measurement and data transmission
devices. The SCADA would determine the optimum operational
mode for the national gas transmission and distribution system.
This would reduce system losses by an estimated 260 million
m3 per year;
(v)   Transmission and compression (US$ 34 million). This component
would increase system capacity to receive the additional gas
tio be produced and expand the transmission system to new
premium markets. It would consist of: (i) compressor units
of 3x8000 kW and 2x1500 kW; (ii) expansion of the Southern,
South-Western and North-Eastern gas transmission systems
through construction of 850 km of pipeline in diameters ranging
from 250-700 mm. As a result, 10 costly coal gasworks serving
about 100,000 consumers could be dismantled and their networks
converted from manufactured gas to natural gas.  Coke oven
networks serving 800,000 consumers could be converted to
natural gas, which is a step towards rationalizing the
country's gas system;
(vi)   Underground storage (US$ 17 million).  Gas transmission and
distribution is characterized by seasonal, daily and hourly
load fluctuations. To deal with seasonal peak demand, PGNG
is using four underground storage .acilities in depleted fields
with a total capacity of 478 million m3. Since the storage and
delivery capacities are not sufficient PGNG is shedding some
industrial load during the winter peak season. The project
would finance the first phase of the development of an
underground gas storage capacity to deal with daily load
fluctuations. The first phase consists of: (i) design and
construction supervision; (ii) completion of 2 caverns with
300,000 m3 capacity each; and (iii) installation of surface
facilities including compressor units and pipeline connecting



- 20 -
the caverns to the transmission system;
(vii)   Gas treatment and desulfurization facilities (US$ 23 million).
Natural gas must be treated before it is delivered to the
pipeline. An important part of this treatment is the removal
of sulfur from the gas. This is necessary because hydrogen
sulfide is lethal even in very small co centrations, and to
prevent sulfur dioxide emissions when the gas is burned. In
many countries the removed acid gases are being flared. This
produces sulphur dioxide, which is a harmful pollutant.   For
that reason, the project includes an additional process step:
converting hydrogen sulphide to elementary sulphur.   PGNG
designed its own desulfurization systems, but the processes
on which they are based are too new to have a demonstrated
history of reliable and safe operation. Under the project,
fminds are allocated for: (a) sulfur removal and tail-gas
treating plants using processes that have a proven history of
reliability, safety and economy of operation; and (b)
laboratory equipment and consultants to assist in developing
Polish technology in this field and to assist in the design
an  performance evaluation of PGNC;'s iron chelate pilot plant
(currently   under   construction)   and   its   Wackenroder
demonstration plant (main equipment items have been procured);
(c)   Technical Assistance
(viii)   Consultancy services and training (US$ 8.5 million) through
courses and seminars to meet needs in seismic data acquisition
and processing, deep drilling, well completion, production of
sour   gas,   gas   production-related   pollution   control
methodologies, SCADA, technology development, underground
storage, gas treatment and desulfurization, joint venture
contract negotiations and exploration promotion, and for
various studies.   In addition to a formal training program
under the project (para 4.06), training provisions will also
be included in the supply contracts where appropriate; and
(ix)   Studies (US$ 1.5 million) to be financed under the project are
the detailed design of LNG facilities if the import of LNG
is found to be economical, a management information systems
study and a data processing master plan.
A more detailed project description is provided in Annex 5-1.
5.04        The Program and the Project.  The project is an integral part of
PGNG's overail investment program and is designed to optimize production in well
defined areas and to avoid permanent loss of significant quantities of gas due
to inaction.   Total investment expenditures by PGNG during 1991-1995 are
estimated at US$ 766 million. In addition, there would be expenditures of about
US$ 133 million on exploration, including appraisal drilling. The total of US$
'J.9 billion compares with estimated investment expenditures of US$ 2.0 billion
in the hard coal sector and US$ 0.7 billion in the lignite sector over the same
period.   To the extent that the project succeeds in attracting foreign oil
companies to venture into gas production during the project period, loan proceeds
could be reallocated to residual financing requirements.



- 21 -
C. ESMAP ComRonents
5.05        In parallel with the project, studies and technical assistance will
be performed, supervised and/or provided by the Natural Gas Development Unit of
ESMAP. These include: (a) a gas development plan (para 5.06); (b) a gas sector
restructuring study (para 2.23); (c) a gas pricing study (para 6.17); and (d)
technical assistance to develop the legal, fiscal and contractual framework for
joint ventures in the gas and oil sector (para 5.08).
5.06        Gas Development Plan.   Poland lacks an overall strategy for gas
development and use. The share of gas in total energy consumption could increase
up to threefold, due to the higher efficiency of gas and its favorable
environmental attributes. Yet, a proper market survey, formulation of a gas
demand and supply balance, allocation to the most economic uses, and a study to
optimize the gas delivery system were never carried out.                                   WA
WA
5.07        To maintain present consumption levels, considerable investments will          -
be required to renovate the existing transmission and distribution system and             vm
to convert town gas systems to natural gas. Further investments will be requ .red
to expand the system. There is currently no gas used in the power sector and
the economic value of gas in power and other potential uses such as district
heating should be estimated. A detailed gas investment plan with the net present
value of its different components needs to be developed.   Some consumers
currently use both district heating and natural gas and the relative efficiercies
of different fuel delivery systems to these consumer need to be assessed. The
gas development plan would address questions to gas allocation and longer term
investment strategy and formulate the sequencing of investments and financing
options that will yield the highest total benefit to Poland form gas use. This
will require an assessment of gas demand within the context of an overall energy
demand scenario, interfuel substitution issues and the alternative supply options
(domestic and imports). The gas development plan would also need to take into
account the relative net environmental benefits and costs of gas use relative
to alternative fuels.
D. Private Sector Involvement
5.08        In line with the Government's general policy regarding the private
sector, the project would encourage foreign and domestic private participation
in the development of its oil and gas sector.  To this end, the Bank would
provide through ESMAP direct support and assistance in the preparation of an
appropriate legal, fiscal and contractual framework for joint venture activities
in oil and gas exploration and development.   Funding would be provided as
necessary on a grant basis. Follow-up support to the Poles in the first set of
negotiations with potential joint venturers could be provided out of the
technical assistance component  of the project.    Similarly,  if the Amoco
exploration data study (para 3.16) yields promising results, some funds from the
technical assistance component could be allocated for exploration promotion if
necessary. In addition, private sector involvement in the energy sector is
expected to increase as a result of the gas sector restructuring program (para
2.20).  It is anticipated that, if there is divestiture of manufacturing and
service companies, a number of these companies would be sold off to the private
sector.    The  same  results  could  follow,  in varying  degrees,  from  the
restructuring programs being undertaken in the other energy sectors.



22 -
E. Environmental Aspects
5.09        The proposed project was reviewed in the field on several occasions
by Bank environmental experts and consultants. In part as a result of this close
coordination, the proposed project fits well into the environmental strategy
being pursued by the Bank under the proposed Environment Management technical
assistance project (Loan 3190-POL).
5.10        The project is expected to have a major positive environmental
impact. The incremental gas to be produced under the project would primarily
displace hard coal used for household space heating.  The main environmental
benefits would be improved air quality and reduced output of solid wastes (ash)
as a result of the increased output and use of gas.   Based on energy conversion
efficiency and high quality coal (1% sulfur), the project would, on an annual
basis, reduce air pollution in Poland by a minimum of 240,000 tons of ash, 50,000
tons of sulfur dioxide, 8,000 tons of carbon monoxide, 20,000 tons of nitrogen
oxide and 3,100,000 tons of carbon dioxide during 1995-2010. Since most coal
burned in Poland is of lower quality with higher sulfur content, the true
environmental benefits may well be a multiple of the above figures.
5.11        While gas production and transmission create their own environmental
hazards, these are minor in relation to the environmental benefits expected from
the project. The project would provide technology and training to ensure that
strict environmental standards are met (Annex 5-2). The transmission pipes would
be of high tensile carbon steel in accordance with API specifications. Sections
of pipe would be welded end-to-end, pressure tested and then laid in trenches.
The pipes would not transport liquid gas, so that the risk of explosion is
minimal. In addition, the project would finance gas desulfurization and sulfur
recovery equipment, which would significantly reduce the amount of sulfur that
would otherwise be released into the atmosphere.
5.12        Compensation to landowners and resettlement, where necessary, for
pipeline construction and other gas field development activities is satisfactory.
Financial compensation is adequate to purchase new land and equivalent or better
replacement housing. Employee health and safety standards and provisions are
comparable to those in Western Europe and subject to regular inspections.
F. Project Cost
5.13        The project cost  is defined as the foreign exchange cost of
equipment, materials and services, plus associated local costs, both expressed
in mid-1989 US dollars, and escalated to current levels by price contingencies
of 4.4Z per annum through 1995. 'The total project cost is estimated at US$ 616
million equivalent. The foreign exchange cost of the project is US$ 320 million,
and the local cost US$ 296 million. Costs are based on recent orders of similar
equipment or on budget quotes from suppliers.  Disbursement would take place
during 1991-1995. Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 5-3 and
are summarized in Table 5-1.
G. Financing Plan
5.14        The proposed Bank loan would finance US$ 250 million or 78% of the
foreign exchange requirements, with cofinancing in the amount of US$ 60 million
to be provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB).  Effectiveness of the



- 23 -
cofinancing agreement is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. All
local costs and additional foreign exchange costs would be financed by PGNG from
net cash flow plus local borrowings.  The project's financing plan is summarized
in Table 5-2.
TABLE 5.1
Estimated Costs (USS Million)
Ljal Foreign  Total
Seismic                         0.0   28    28,8
Gas Production                  172.0  149.5  321.5
Sulphur Recovery                10.0  18.7  28.7
Transnission and Distribution   54.5   5.7  110.2
Technical Assistance and Training  2.7  6.1  8.8
BASE COSIS                 239.2  2    498.0
PhyskaL Cntingencies            12.0  13.1  2&1
Price Contingnctes              45.S  47.8  93X
TOTAL PROJICT COSTS       296.7  319.7  616A
TABLE 5-2
Local     Foreian       Total
IBRD                -         250.        250.0
EIB                 .          60.0        60.0
PGNG              296.7        9.7        306A
TOTAL          296.7      319.7        616A
H. Procurement
5.15       All equipment, supplies and services to be financed under the Bank
loan will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement
of  equipment  and  the  selection  of  consultants.    Polish  suppliers  and
manufacturers competing under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be
eligible for a 15 percent preference margin.  EIB would finance a number of
procurement packages of goods and services under parallel financing arrangements;
these packages will be procured in accordance with EIB's procurement procedures.
The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5-3.
5.16       All bidding packages for equipment and materials estimated to cost
US$ 1 million equivalent or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation.  In addition, the first five packages, regardless of         T
value, will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Contracts estimated to cost
under US$ 1 million equivalent would be subject to ex-post review after contract
award.
5.17        The  procurement  of  goods,  works  and  services  would be  the
responsibility of PGNG's procurement unit established for this purpose. This
unit received Bank training and further Bank assistance would be provided in
preparing suitable standardized bidding documents. ICB would be used for most
of the gas exploration, production and distribution equipment and related
services in packages amounting to US$ 190 million, or 76% of the loan amount.



- 24 -
Limited International Bidding (LIB) would be used for the procurement of items
for which there are only a few suppliers, or when justified by exceptional
circumstances such as unpredictable well drilling problems. The aggregate limit
on procurement through LIB would be US$ 40 million. Under LIB, PGNG would seek
bids from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to assure competitive
prices. For items of a proprietary nature, where timing is critical or where
compatibility with installed equipment is required, Direct Contracting will be
applied. International Shopping, based on at least three price quotations would
be used on a case-by-case basis.   There will be an aggregate limit on
international shopping of US$ 10 million. Local works, goods and services would
be procured under PGNG's normal procurement procedures. For field operations
(seismic survey, well drilling and rehabilitation), PGNG will use its own
resources. Consultancy services would be selected and awarded in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for the selection and use of consultants.
TABLE .
PROCUREMENT ARAGMNS(USS million)
_PROCUREMEN'r MErJiOD _
LQB  IB 2TfER pj    TOTALI
(i) Equipment and Materials  260.0  65.0  281A       606A
(190.0)  (40.0)  (70.0)  (300.0)
(il) Consultants' Servkes & Trainig  i  e   10.0      10.0
! -   l1)         (10.0)
TOTAL                   260.0  65.0  291A       616A
(190.0)  (40.0)  (80.0)  (310.0)
R/ Fgures betwen baCeb indicate Bank and EIB financed portion Ohe lanter under -other).
t2/  Includes Inte natIo  Shopping. Dired Contracing. and ElB's porton (parallel financing).
g/  Totw prolem t cost Induds duties and taxes.
1. Dlsbljrsements
5.18       The proceeds of the loan would finance up to 100% of the eligible
direct foreign exchange expenditures for goods, services and training, as well
as up to 100% of the eligible ex-factory costs of locally produced goods.
Disbursements for contracts valued at less than US$ 300,000 equivalent will be
on the basis of statements of expenditures which detail the individual
transactions. The documentation to support these expenditures will be retained
by PGNG. The documentation will be audited by independent auditors and be made
available for review by the Bank upon request.  Applications for withdrawal
against contracts valued more than US$ 300,000 equivalent will be fully
documented.   To facilitate disbursements, PGNG will establish a US dollar
denominated Special Account with the National Bank of Poland. The Bank would
deposit the equivalent of about four months of disbursements (US$ 17 million)
into this account. Replenishment applications should be for amounts not less
than US$ 1 million.
5.19       The detailed disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 5-4.  The
profile differs from normal energy disbursement profiles, to reflect the fact
that the project finances urgently needed items ard is designed to disburse
relatively quickly after initial procurement delays have been overcome. About
90X of the total loan amount will have been disbursed by the end of FY95. The



- 25 -
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995 and the closing date
would be June 30, 1996. The disbursement schedule is summarized in Table 5-4.
TABLE 54
Estimated Disbursements I'SS million)
IBRD FY               FY91  FY92  FY93  FY%   FY95  FY96
Annual                234   48.2  Su.4  S2.7  45.8  24.5
Cumulative             23A   71.6  127.0  179.7  223.5  250.0
Percentage             9%   29%   51%   72%   90%  100%
J. Implementation Arrangements
5.20        Most project activities would be implemented through different units
of the Borrower.  Therefore, PGNG established a project coordinating team at
headquarters whose main functions are to: (a) liaise with the Bank; (b) expedite
procurement; (c) take decisions on major technical project aspects; (d)
coordinate various project implementation task groups; (e) supervise and
coordinate the work of consultants; (f) allocate resources; and (g) monitor,
evaluate &nd report on project implementation. In the gas sector, Gazoproject,
a subsidiary of PGNG, would be responsible for project engineering and design.
Field operations would be carried out by PGNG's regional enterprises.   The
operating capability of these enterprises has been assessed by Bank staff and
was found to be acceptable. A detailed project implementation schedule is shown
in Annex 5-5.
K. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
5.21        The  project  account,  the  Special  Account,  the  Statement  of
Expenditure, and the financial statements of the Borrower will be audited
a(cording to international standards at the end of each fiscal year. Assurances
were obtained from PGNG that it will appoint independent external auditors
acceptable to the Bank and present, within seven months after the end of each
fiscal year, audited financial statements showing its performance and position.
5.22        Systems and procedures would be set up to ensure effective monitoring
of project implementation by the Borrower and the Bank.  In particular, they
would furnish the Bank with a series of reports on a regular basis. Since PGNG
is a new borrower in a country with little exposure to Bank procedures, very
close attention would be paid to the procurement process. Qua:terly progress
reports would include statistical information required under the supervision
action plan. Agreement was reached on the reporting requirements, viz. that PGNG
will submit to the Bank: (a) quarterly progress reports, within 30 days of the
end of each quarter; and (b) monthly reports on the status of the different
procurement packages.  In addition PGNG will prepare and submit to the Bank,
within six months after the closing date of the loan, a project completion
report.
L Supervision
5.23        In addition to regular supervision for the review of procurement
action, project implementation, quarterly progress reports, etc., an indicative
st'pervision plan was developed (Annex 5-6).   The plan lists selected key



- 26 -
variables that will be closely monitored during project implementation, in order
to ensure that PGNG will achieve clear efficiency gains. The project is expected
to require a moderately heavy supervision effort from the Bank (para 5.22) at
an average of 15 staffweeks per fiscal year. In addition, ESMAP would provide
substantial staff inputs for the various components under its supervision in
connection with the project.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. The Financial System
(a) Accounting
6.01        rhe Polish accounting system is essentially an accrual accounting
system with elements of cash accounting.   It is based on the principle of
"financially separated activity", i.e. earmarking of net income to non-fungible
funds that serve to finance different purposes.  An important practical side
effect of this system as applied until 1989 was that it severely limited the
internally generated resources available for investment. Until recently about
ten different earmarked funds existed, but their number was reduced to only
three effective January 1, 1989.  The two most important are the Government
("Founder's") Fund and the Enterprise Fund. Their purpose is no longer to limit
expenditures by category, but rather to determine that part of enterprise capital
that belongs to the State and the enterprise respectively.
6.02        From January 1, 1989 on, profits are to be distributed as follows:
(a) income tax: 40%; (b) a dividend up to a maximum of 25% of the value of the
Founder's Fund, with the amount to be determined by the Government, but not
exceeding 30% of net profits after taxes; and (c) retained earnings and Personnel
Funds (Staff, Social, and Housing Funds). Earmarking to the personnel funds is
no longer mandatory and each firm can set its own allocation levels.
6.03        In the context of the Government's economic reform program, further
comprehensive changes in the enterprise financial structure (e.g., transformation
into joint stock companies) and in the Polish accounting system are being
supported by  the  Bank.    Complete  abolition  of earmarking would enhance
management's financial responsibility and flexibility and would further improve
the transparency of the financial system.  Secondly, a distinction should be
1-troduced between enterprise accounts and national accounts. The two are now
mixed, with the result that the financial statements are excessively detailed
and not useful as a management tool. Thirdly, consolidation of accounts needs
to be improved. At present, aggregation rather than consolidation takes place.
As a result, inter-divisional transfers are double counted and assessments of
an enterprise's working capital position become unreliable. A major reform of
the accounting system nationwide is expected to be introduced starting in 1992
as a corollary to the introduction of a value added tax system (para 6.13).
(b) Asset Valuation and DeRreciation
6.04        Fixed assets were revalued nationwide as of the end of 1983. Because
of the pricing implications that would result from higher depreciation expenses



- 27 -
in a cost-plus environment, the increased annual depreciation charges could only
gradually be brought into costs over a four-year period ending in 1987. Another
general asset revaluation was introduced on January 1, 1988, relating to asset
values as of end 1986. The additional depreciation charges were phased in over
a two-year period ending 1989.    Profits  during the period 1984-88 were
consequently overstated. Because of the high rate of inflation since 1988, fixed
assets as of the end of 1989 were revalued by a factor of twelve effective
January 1, 1990, with additional depreciation expenses to be charged fully
against income for that year. Adequate asset valuation could become important
in the near future for regulatory purposes (para 2.22).
6.05        Fixed assets are depreciated on a stLaight-line basis in accordance
with rates set by the Council of Ministers.  Depreciation rates appear adequate.
Socialized enterprises were until 1990 in principle subject to a 50% tax on
annual depreciation charges.  In practice, however, energy sector enterprises
paid Zar less than that, either because they took advantage of incentive programs
(e.g.  investments  in pollution  control  equipment),  or because  they were
officially exempted from the depreciation tax, as in the case of PGNC from 1987
onwards.
(c) Investments
6.06        Sector investments fall into two categories.  Central investments
generally cover major new construction programs involving capacity expansion.
Financing is made available either through budget grants or, more commonly,
through bank loans with below market terms. Central investments and associated
debts are not carried on the enterprise's books until aftcr the corresponding
assets are commissioned. Central investments accounted for only a small part
of total investments in tne gas sector but for the majority of investments in
the coal and lignite sector.  Enterprise investments cover modernization and
rehabilitation programs plus all other construction not covered by the central
investment  program.    Obtaining  financing  for  these  investments  is  the
responsibility of the enterprise, and banks may refuse to extend credit. '*hen
credit is granted, terms are at prevailing market rates, and repayment starts
after the scheduled (not the actual) completion date.   As a result af the
economic reform program now being implemented, the proportion of centrally
financed investments is expected to decrease significantly and may be phased out
altogether.
6.07        Factors that limited investments in the past, in addition to the
earmarking of funds (para 6.01) and lack of access to bank credit (para 6.06),
were the tax system and the lack of foreign exchange.   All enterprises were
subject to a series of taxes (wage taxes, excess wage taxes, depreciation tax
and an income tax that was recently reduced from 65% to 40% of net income).
All but the first could be partly refunded or reduced, at the option of the
Ministry of Finance and taking into account an enterprise's financial
requirements.   For some enterprises this led to a situation where, at the
beginning of the fiscal year, projected cash flow was typically not sufficient
to finance proposed investments. Extended negotiations would lead, at year's
end, to ad hoc reductions in the tax burden. As a result of this uncertainty,
entities tended to limit investments to the bare minimum necessary to keep
production going. These practices should cease given expected improvemernts in
pricing policies and the Government's stated intention to introduce hard budgets
for state enterprises.



- 28 -
6.08        Another factor limiting investments in the past was the lack of
access to foreign exchange. Under regulations existing through the end of 1989,
the enterprise was obliged to sell foreign exchange earned to the Government and
would be credited for only part of it in its retention entitlement (ROD) account.
However, frequently only a fraction of the official entitlement could be obtained
for the most urgently needed imported items. Enterprises with little foreign
exchange earnings (PGNG:US$ 5 million per annum) were dependent on the Ministry
of Finance for foreign exchange and/or (since 1988) their ability to buy hard
currency at foreign exchange auctions. Starting January 1, 1990 all enterprises
earning foreign exchange are to hand over all foreign exchange earnings to the
National Bank of Poland. In return, all enterprises should be able to purchase
foreign exchange at the unified exchange rate so that, if an enterprise's tariffs
are at adequate levels, it should be able to purchase the quantities necessary
for operations and investments.
B. PGNG
(a) General
6.09        The basic financial unit in the gas sector is the operating
enterprise. PGNG consolidates the enterprise accounts and performs centralizing
functions such as: redistributing revenues between enterprises according to
internal transfer pricing systems designed to more or less equalize profits
between  enterprises;  collecting  euterprise  income  taxes  and  paying  the
consolidated income tax; and distributing tax rebates and Government subsidies,
if any.
(b) Past Performance and Present Position
6.10        In contrast to coal and lignite, the gas sector received virtually
no direct operating subsidies from the Government, but tax rebates increased in
recent years. Key financial indicators for 1986-89 are summarized in Table 6-1.
TABLE 6.1
Polish Oil and Gas Comparnv Historical Financial Indicators
actual       est.
1986  1o87  1988  19S
1. Operating Ratio (op. costs/revenue)  91%   90%   82%   97%
2. Net Internal Cash Generation  74%   46%   77%   71%
3. Retun on Assets               11%   13%  27%   6%
4. Current Ratio (times)          13    13    1.3   0.6
5. Debt/(Debt+Equity)             7%   7%   4%   7%
6. Debt Servie Coverage (times)   5.6   83    13.0  3.2
6.11        The table shows a deteriorating financial performance in 1989, when
inflation accelerated sharply during the second half of the year.   Average
tariffs to household consumers cover only a fraction of the cost of production
and delivery and the average price of gas in relation to other forms of energy
has deteriorated during the past decade (para 2.14). As a result, the operating
ratio deteriorated from 91% in 1986 to an estimated 97% in 1989. The current
ratio dropped from 1.3 times to 0.6, because PGNG delayed for as long as it could
payment of suppliers (primarily imported gas). The rate of return on average
net fixed assets in service declined from 11% to 6%, despite substantial



- 29 -
undervaluation of the assets and double understdtement of depreciation charges
(para 6.04). If depreciation charges had been fully taken into account, PGNG's
real net earnings would have been negative during most of the period.
6.12        In apparent contrast to the other weak performance indicators, the
net internal cash generation and debt service coverage ratios appear quite
satisfactory at an estimated 71X and 3.2 times respectively in 1989. However,
this was because PGNG found borrowing increasingly difficult and had to limit
its investments accordingly.  Given the combination of low tariffs and high
nominal income taxes (payable monthly) PGNG had difficulty in efficiently
managing its cash flow and frequently had to negoLiate tax rebates or refunds
with  Government.    With  its  cash  flow  forecasts  precarious,  banks  were
increasingly unwilling to extend credit. The result was that PGNG implemented
only the minimal investments required to meet plan targets.
6.13        During 1986-1989 PGNG recorded all exploration expenditures against
an Exploration Fund, in an amount agreed annually with the Ministry of Finance.
This Fund was also abolished effective January 1989 (para 6.01). Negative wells
and test wells are fully expensed. Expenditures on wells that have gone into
full-scale production are only partly capitalized, based on indices relating to
the depth at which the productive well was found.   Shut-in wells are not
capitalized, even if production capacity has been established. On average, PGNG
capitalizes only about 10% of exploration expenses, which is low by international
standards (25-30%).  International practice is either to capitalize fully the
cost of exploration and test wells that are found to be productive (successful
efforts method) or to capitalize all exploration and develcpment costs (full
cost method). For practical reasons, notably the obligation to buy land from a
landowner if a well is declared producing (a lengthy process), PGNG overstated
exploration expenses and understated investment expenditures. Since regulations
governing land purchases are expected to become less cumbersome, the accounting
treatment should be reviewed. Assurances were obtained from PGNG that it will
review its accoun ing treatment of exploration expenses by December 31,1991, and
bring it in line Qith accounting standards acceptable to the Bank starting on
January 1, 1992.
(c) Gas Pricing
6.14        Gas prices to all consumer classes (Annex 6-1) are based on 1982
costs.   Price increases since then have applied the same percentage to all
charges --capacity, energy, etc. The largest single item in the financial cost
:ecovery formula is the cost of natural gas imports, for which Poland pays less
than non-CMEA importers. The government recognizes that CMEA transaction prices
are not a good basis for internal pricing; therefore, it has decided to move
towards convertible currency border pricing as the benchmark. Gas prices are
now centrally determined. They bear little relation to the prices of alternative
fuels and do not reflect the marginal opportunity cost of gas delivered to
different sectors. This results in inefficient gas use, sub-optimal allocation
of scarce gas to alternative users, and in financial losses to PGNG as current
prices do not cover the cost of delivery. The latter is compounded by metering
inaccuracies and some illegal household connections. The pricing system is quite
complex to administer as there are eight tariffs and 31 subcategories.
6.15        At present PGNG has two gas demand scenarios, both of which are
supply-constrained (para 3.22).   Based on the low scenario,  the Soviet gas



- 30 -
import:s provide the marginal source of gas. In principle, therefore, gas prices
should at least reflect the border price as well as the marginal cost of
transmission, storage and distribution. In practice, however, the import and
well-head prices of gas should be linked to typical gas import prices in Western
Europe, partLcularly in view of the movement toward convertible currency pricing
in the CMEA starting in 1991.   The marginal costs of transmission must be
calculated on the basis of typical costs in Western Europe, since the Polish
costs are demonstrably too low.
6.16        The high demand scenario requires higher domestic production as well
as additional imports. Under this scenario, gas prices would have to reflect
the border price of the marginal import source, which is likely to be close to
West European gas prices, as well as the marginal cost of delivery to the end-
consumer. Obviously the pricing system would need to be refined to take into
account the financial viability of sector entities, any required taxes
(particularly at the producer end), the elasticity of demand of consumers and
environmental objectives.
6.17        In association with the proposed project, a gas pricing study is
being undertaken by ES4AP. The study started in May 1990 and is expected to be
completed by November 1990.  The objective of the revised gas pricing system
should be to move toward economic efficiency prices.   The new system should
result in the financial viability of the gas sector, be easy to administer and
provide tax revenues to the government as appropriate. Given the importance of
adequate gas prices for economic and financial reasons, assurances were obtained
from the Government that: (a) gas prices to industry will be raised to average
West-EuropeatL price levels by December 31, 1992 in accordance with an agreed
schedule and using a representative basket of comparators; (b) by December 31,
1991, household gas tariffs will be set at levels not less than industrial
tariffs and gradually be increased to fully reflect the additional delivery
costs by December 31, 1995; and (c) the Bank will review, on a semi-annual basis,
the measures proposed to be taken by the Government to achieve the above targets.
The gas pricing study would provide further guidance as to the optimal structure
and levels of tariffs. Agreement was also reached on the methodology and the
comparator countries to be used in determining gas prices to industry, as well
as on the schedule along which the necessary adjustments would be made. Where
feasible, tariffs would be reviewed and, if necessary increased, at the end of
each quarter to offset the possible effects of inflation.
(d) Future Financial Performance
6.18        Forecast financial statements for the period 1990-96 are shown in
Annex 6-2.  To deal with hyperinflation, all 1989 financial data were converted
into US dollars at the average 1989 market exchange rate and from 1990 onwards
all data are expressed in US dollars.
6.19        Financing Plan. PGNG's financing plan for the project implementation
period 1991-95 is summarized in Table 6-2.



- 31 -
Table 6.2
Polish Oil and Gas Comoans: Financine Plan For The Period 1991 - 195 (USS million)
1991.95                                 M1.s * s9
Amount  %                               AmLunt  9
SOURCES OF FUNDS                          USES OF FUNDS
Net Income                459  38
Subscriber Contributions  77   6
Depreciation              296  25         Expboration              133  tl
Less: Debt Service       (    (20        Develpment               766  64
Total Internal Sources   589  49          Total Investnent        899  75
IBRD Loan                 250  21
EIB Loan                   60   5         Change In Working Capital  15S  13
Other Long Tern Debt      300  25         Change ia Cash           145  12
TOTAL SOURCES           1199 100          TMAL USES              11W  100
6.20         As a result of the rapid increases in gas prices to international
levels (para 6.17), PGNG could experience large windfall profits because local
costs are unlikely to increase at the same rate.  Introduction of payments to
the Government for depletion of natural resources (royalties) should be one of
the options to be considered by the Government as part of the ir.troduction of
a general resource rent regime. This would become particularly importart if and
when part of the energy extraction industry (gas, oil, coal and lignite) 's sold
to the private sector. It is, furthermore, assumed that the Government will levy
a windfall profits tax should enterprise cash flow exceed predetermined levels
as a sole result of the agreed gas price increases. On this basis, PGNG would
be able to finance on average 49% of total applications or about 66% of
investment and exploration  expenditures during  1991-95.   The terms of the
proposed IBRD loan would be at the standard variable interest rate, a 5 year
grace period and a final maturity of 17 years. EIB cofinancing terms are assumed
to be 8.6% interest, a grace period of 3 years and a final maturity of 15 years.
Local borrowings are expected to be easily forthcoming due to the sharply
improved financial performance of PGNG following the increases in gas prices.
Such borrowings would be primarily in the form of bank loans and possibly some
bond issues as the Polish capital market develops. The assumed average (US$)
interest rate on both types of financial instruments is 12%, with a three-year
grace period and a final maturity of six years.
6.21         Forecast Key Financial Indicators.  A sunmmary of the forecast key
financial indicators for the period 1990-1996 in Table 6-3.
TABLE 6-3
Polish Oil and Gas Comranv: Forecast of Financial Performance Indicators
Actual    Est.                       Forecast
1989    190     191     1       1993    1994          996
L Opering Ratio             97%     37%     89%    68%      62%      59%    58%  56%
2. Net Internal Cash Generaion
(3-Year Movng Average)    NA.    60%      56%     315     66%     59%     31%  33%
3. Cumnt Ratio              06      2.0     3.7     4.2     4.1     2.9      2.9  2.9
4. Debt/(Debt+Equity)        7%      2%     14%      18%     18%     17%     15%  12%
5 Debt Service Coverage Ratio  3.2   146.1    17.1    s      2.8      L7      1.7  L6



- 32 -
All financial indicators show satisfactory performance levels.  The operating
ratio is expected to improve to a strong 56X by 1996.   Net internal cash
generation as a percent of exploration plus investment expenditures on a moving
average basis would be in most years well above 30X, and debt service coverage
would be 1.6 times or better. These performance ratios are high for an expanding
utility with a sizeable investmint program. Consequently, performdnce targets
were set at a satisfactory level that should be achievable under all scenarios.
Assurances w3re ootained from PCNG that it will : (a) achieve, starting with the
year 1991, net internal cash generation ratios of at least 30% in any one year
based on a moving three-year average (the previous, the current and the next
year) during the project implementation period; (b) maintain annual debt servi:e
coverage ratios of at least 1.3 times; and (c) present to the Bank, by September
30 of eazh year, the corresponding actual and forecast financial statements.
VII. BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
A. Prr__ct Benefits
7.01        The project is designed to maximize production of an alternative
primary energy resource (natural gas) in Poland and to slow down the decline in
exports of Polish hard coal, currently about 29 t4t per annum. It is expected
that, given appropriate price signals, most of this additional energy will
eventually release corresponding amounts of hard coal for export. Some of the
additional gas supply will be used to reduce the severity of current gas
rationing. While this will somewhat reduce the project's positive impact on coal
exports, this will be counterbalanced by removal of some of the constraints on
economic production, including production for export.
7.02        Benefits have been assessed on the basis of incremental output of
natural gas and condensate at mid-1989 West European market prices. Benefits
would be higher if real prices of natural gas or petroleum increased over the
period 1991-2010. The project would also have major environmental benefits.
In contrast to coal, gas combustion produces practically no ash as particulate
emissions or as solid waste.  By encouraging the increased usage of gas the
switch from coal to gas would significantly reduce total emissions of sulfur
dioxide and particulates.  Most of the incremental gas output will be low in
sulfur and the project would finance installation of gas desulfurization
equipment in medium sulfur fields. These unquantified environmental benefits
are additional to those taken into account in the economic evaluation of the
project. Additional specific benefits would also arise from the transmission
(SCADA) and technical assistance components to be financed under the project.
7.03        With the Bank project, gas production (high methane equivalent)
would be increased by at least 30 billion m3 and condensate production by 0.37
Mt during 1991-2010; the maximum incremental annual output would be 2.4 billion
m3 of gas and 40,000 tons of condensate. Expressed in millions of tons of hard
coal equivalent (Mtce), total incremental producrion would be at least 36 Mtce
on an energy equivalency basis or 76 Mtce on an energy conversion efficiency
basis, which is the most practical yardstick of benefit measurement under Polish
conditions.



- 33 -
B. Prwe Costs
7.04        The proposed project has been evaluated on the basis of total project
costs, investment costs plus incremental operating costs during the production
period, including costs not financed by the Bank. Local and foreign costs have
been estimated based on mid-1989 prices, with local costs having been converted
to US dollars at the average mid-1989 market-clearing exchange rate.
C. Economic Rate of Retum
7.05        The economic rate of return for the base case (37%) is high.  This
reflects the fact that the gas reserves to be developed are already proven, i.e.
they embody the benefits (sunk costs) of earlier exploration expenditures. In
order to test the project's vulnerability to cost overruns and poor production
performance, the analysis was re-run with 30% higher project capital costs (this
margin is well in excess of the 5% physical contingency allowance for the gas
component). The resulting economic rate of return is 27%. Sensitivity testing
with 30% lower incremental gas output still results in a high rate of return of
24%. The combination of both 30% higher costs and 30% lower output yielded a
rate of return of 17%.   Project returns are, therefore, robust.   Detailed
calculations are shown in Annex 7-1.
D. Malor Risks
7.06          The main risk associated with the project is the possibility that
the Government will delay granting the gas tariff increases needed to generate
the funds to finance local costs and to purchase foreign exchange to service the
Bank loan. This risk is manageable, given the Government's commitment to energy
price reform as evidenced in recent energy price measures and its macroeconomic
policy dialogue with the Bank. The market for additional gas output is assured,
as is the market for Polish export coal.   Therefore,  the economic risks
associated with implementing the project are low.
7.07        In general, this project, which does not cover exploration activity,
entails only limited risks.   The development and rehabilitation of existing
fields is based on a thoroughly monitored field production history without major
operational difficulties.   The evaluation of recently discovered gas fields
carries very little risks; the latter are normally associated with the extent,
characteristics and performance of reservoirs, for which the industry has
developed clear operating procedures. The work program has been designed to
avoid or minimize all potential drilling and geological risks by using modern
field equipment, proven technology and speciaii-ad field services.   In the
unlikely event that procurement vf slightly less advanced technology becomes
necessary, the affected components of the project would remain viable.
7.08        Drilling and geological risks are inherent in any gas project.
Drilling risks consist of losing the well and equipment during drilling. This
risk is limited due to PGNG's 40-year experience and successful measures taken
to control high pressure reservoirs since its last blow-out occurred in 1980.
Adequate training would be provided under the project to effectively utilize the
equipment to be procured. Also, the project would finance modern equipment to
further decrease this risk. Geological risks (the degree of probability of the
gas being present and producible in the expected quantities) are manageable
because the infill wells will be drilled in producing fields with known gas



- 34 -
accumulations but where more wells are needed to drain the reservoir efficiently.
Appraisal wells will be drilled near wells which have proven the presence -f a
gas bearing reservoir but of which the dimensions and productivity have to be
further defined.   These wells will be drilled sequentially and with  the
assistance of high resolution seismic data, which will greatly reduce this risk.
7.09        Other risks are procurement delays, implementation delays due to
lack of materials,  and lack of efficiency improvements.  Although there will
probably be an initial delay in procurement due co the lack of experience of the
Borrower and the country with the Bank's procurement procedures, this is expected
to affect only the start-up period. The risk of future procurement delays has
been minimized by: (a) the establishment of a procurement unit for the project,
which received seminars given by Bank staff; and (b) tight reporting schedules
on procurement progress during supervision. The risk of implementation delays
due to lack of materials for suppliers, e.g. equipment manufacturing industries,
has been dealt with adequately by identifying critical inputs and making them
part of the project. Efficiency improvements will be closely monitored as part
of the supervision process (para 5.22).
Vill. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(a)   Ensure  that,  following  the  development  of  restructuring
programs for the gas and oil, power and lignite, district
heating and hard coal sectors, these programs will be
implemented starting on June 30, 1991 after consultation with
the Bank (para 2.23);
(b)   with respect to prices: (i)  Raise gas prices co industry to
average West-European industry gas price levels by December
31, 1992 in accordance with an agreed schedule and using a
representative basket of comparator countries;
(ii) Set by December 31, 1991, household gas tariffs aX levels
not less than industrial tariffs.   Thereafter,  household
tariffs will be gradually increased to fully reflect the
additional delivery costs of gas to households by December 31,
1995; and
(iii)   Ensure that the Bank will review, on a semi-annual
basis, the measures proposed to be taken by the Government to
achieve the above targets (para 6.17);
8.02        During negotiations, PGNG agreed to:
(a)   Appoint independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank
and present, within seven months after the end of each fiscal
year, audited financial statements showing its consolidated
performance and position (para 5.21);



- 35 -
(b)   Review by December 31, 1991 its accounting treatment of
exploration expenses and bring it in line with accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank starting on January 1, 1992
(para 6.13);and
(c)   (i)  Achieve, starting with the year 1991, net internal cash
generation ratios of at least 30X in any one year based on a
moving three-year average during the project implementation
period;
(ii) Maintain annual debt service coverage ratios of at least
1.3 times; and
(iii) Present to the Bank, by September 30 of each year, the
corresponding actual and forecast financial statements (para
6.21).
8.03        Effectiveness of the cofinancing agreement with EIB is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para 5.14).
8.04        On the basis of the above mentioned agreements, the project is
considered suitable for an IBRD loan in the amount of US$ 250 million equivalent
for a period of 17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. The loan will be made to PGNG and guaranteed by the
Republic of Poland.
iis



ANNEXES



- 39 -
Annex 1
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
Energ Sector Studies
1.    Poland - Energy Investment.  The transition from central planning to
regulated markets. IBRD Report No. 7427-POL, September 27, 1988.
2.    Poland - Energy Market Development Study. IBRD Report No. 8224-POL, January
3, 1990.
3.    Poland - Reform, Adjustment and Growth. Volume II, the Energy Sector, pp.
160-296. World Bank Country Study, 1987.
Terms of Reference
1.    Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Study.
2.    Oil and Gas Sector Restructuring Study.
3.    Power and Lignite Sector Restructuring Study.
4.    Gas Pricing Study.
5.    Gas Development Plan.
Financial
1.    Actual  and Forecast Financial  Statements  (1986-95)  for the Adamow,
Belchatow, Konin and Turow lignite mining companies individually.
2.    PGNG - Financial Statements (1983-89).
3.    Notes on the main changes in the Polish accounting system, prepared by
Jozef Pron, consultant (September 15, 1989).
Selected Workiun Papers
1.    Gas Sector - The upstream components.
2.    Gas Sector - The downstream components.
3.    Lignite Sector - Economic and Financial Analysis.
LegI Documents
1.    Statute of the Polish Oil and Gas Company (October 8, 1982).
2.    Act of October 23, 1987, on the creation of the Board of Power and Lignite;
the Hard Coal Board; the Office of the Minister of Industry; and on the
Fund for Structural Changes in Industry.
3.    Decision by the Council of Ministers dated March 16, 1989 with regard to
the decision of state enterprises or other state organizational units
pertaining to the organization of the Power and Lignite Board. (Includes
listing of the constituent enterprises plus an organization chart).



- 40 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Energy Balances                                      -
1.    As part of the process of moving away from central planning, the practice
of issuing annual energy planning projections has been discontinued.
Nonetheless, two key elements in the annual energy balance (coal exports and
gas imports) are still determined by central decisions. Table 1 shows national
energy balances based on historical data (1988) and projections (1995) provided
by the Polish Academy of Sciences.
Curmnt Demand and Supnpv (1988)
2.    Coal (hard coal and lignite) accounts for 95% of primary energy production
in Poland, consisting of 84% (hard coal) plus 11% (lignite). Coal consumption
accounts for about 79% of primary energy consumption, of which 68% is hard coal
and 111 is lignite. Coal's contribution is very high by international standards,
even in comparison with other major coal producers. This has major implications
for industrial costs and for the environment in Poland.
3.    In physical terms, energy imports (mainly oil and gas from the Soviet
Union) are only slightly higher than energy exports (mainly hard coal and coke).
However, given the higher value of oil and gas per energy unit, the balance of
Poland's energy trade would be highly negative if conducted at international
prices. Most energy exports go to convertible currency customers (61X of coal
export receipts in 1988), while most energy imports (81% of oil and gas import
payments in 1988) are obtained under more favorable barter arrangements. The
energy component of Poland's trade balance will deteriorate as the CMEA moves
towards trading at international prices. Coal dominates domestic energy supply
and coal exports currently account for about 12% of total convertible currency
export earnings (in 1988).
Future Enem Outons (1995)
4.    Assumptions.       The energy demand projections prepared by the Polish
Academy of Sciences are based on explicit scenarios for key economic variables
- mainly growth of Net Material ProducL; (NMP, Poland's indicator of economic
output) and changes in economic and industrial structure - and energy parameters
(number of vehicles, etc.). The energy-economy relationships have been validated
for the years 1985-88. The underlying scenario for NMP is for a decline in 1989,
followed by slow growth (1.6% p.a.) throughout the 1990s. The annual average
growth of energy demand is projected to be only 0.5%.
5.    The critical item in the energy balance is hard coal output. The base case
assumption is that restructuring of the hard coal industry will reduce annual
output by at least 17 million tons by 1995, i.e. from the 1989 level of 178
million tons to 161 million tons in 1995. The actual reduction in output could
be several times large than 17 million tons/year; however, this will not be known
until after the restructured coal industry has been able to adapt to market
conditions over a period of several years. Hard coal output also depends on



- 41 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 4
whether the mining industry returns to a 6-day production week (see Sensitivity
Analysis below).
6.    For the gas component of the energy balance, the original 1995 estimates
were based on production levels of natural gas at 126.6 PJ (3.67 billion i3).
Assuming full implementation of the proposed project, the production figure for
natural gas was adjusted to 180.6 PJ (5.26 billion i3, of which 1.92 bn m3
accounts for the project increment). Improved productivity of the main excavators
in the lignite mines through replacement of auxiliary equipment will maintain
the lignite production at 603.6 PJ (20.6 Mtce). The energy balance projections
treat coal exports as the balancing item. A range of coal exports is estimated,
based on two different scenarios of gas imports (see Sensitivity Analysis below).
TABLE 1
Poland _   National EnepM Balan    (in PetaJo_les P) j/
Base Case
1995              1995              1995
1988         LW Coal           H4lh Coal         High Coal
Variable                                       Actual         Hbrh Gas          Hbh Gas   Low Gas ImDort
NMP Index                                        100                112               112               112
Final Consumption                            (3,380)           (3,700.9)         (3,700.9)          (3,700.9)
Solid Fuels                                (1,37)             (1123A)          (1,123A)          (1,123A)
Gaseous Fuels                                (485.2)           (487.2)           (487.2)            (487.2)
Other                                       (1,744.1)         (2,0903)          (2,090.3)         (2,0903)
Secondary Consumption                        (1,420.9)         (1,702            (1,7193)           (1,7193)
District Heat                                (9012)           (1135)            (1,1193)          (1,1193)
Thennal Electricity                          (519.7)           (589.1)           (600.0)            (600.0)
Conversion Losses, etc.                       (385A.)             (66.8)           (102.0)           (1180)
PRIMARY CONSUMPTION                                     3         4A703            &SM2
Primar Production                             5,t2L7             4,522A            4,840.1           4,8401
Hard Coal                                    4,459.8           3,74L3            4059.2             4,059.2
Ignite                                         592.7             603.6             603.6             603A
Natural Gas
. BaseCase                                    15i                99.6              99.6               99.
- Project Increment                               .              65S9              65.9               65.9
Other                                           12.6              1L                1L8               11.8
Enemy Imports (EXorts)                          1228              948.2             682                69S2
Crude Oil & Petroleum Products                 740.2             91LS              9126              912.6
Natural Gas                                   25L8               2993              299.8             25L8
Hard Coal                                    (808)             (187A)             (4550)            (3910)
Coke & Electricity                            (60A)             (75.2)            (752)              (75.2)
PRIMARY SUPPLY                                _                                                       MMS
RATIO ANALYSIS
IHard Coal & Lignite Production as a Percent oll
,P mary Supply                                 95%               79%               84%               84%
- lrhnary Consumption                          79%               76%               76%                77%
HARD COAL PRODUCION (in miion tons) 2/           192                161               17S               175
HARD COAL EXPORT REVENUES P/
* in miion tons                                31.2                7.2              17.S              15.1
. In US $ mllon (US$ 40/ton)                   1246               289               701                603
Il   1 mUlilon tons o oal equivaent - 29.3 PJ (assumm"  1 tee - 7.000 Mcal)
2/   Basod on avage calorflc values for hard coal prduced d 5.500 tonI/kg and ftr hard coal exported of 6,200 Ical/kg.



- 42 -
Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 4
7.    Sensitivity Analysis.   For  1995,  the  following  scenarios  have  been
considered:
(a)   Base Case. There are two variants on the 'base case', which compares
production based on a five and a six-day working week for coal mines. In
the first variant ('low coal'), coal outpvt is based on the present five-
day working week. In the second ('high c7al'), it is assumed that the
mines return to a 6-day working week. This will result in a 21% increase
in 1995 hard coal production, from 161 to 175 Mt. The second variant is
retained for the 1995 sensitivity test on gas imports (below).
(b)   Low Gas Imports,  Poland currently expects gas imports to remain
constant at a level much lower than needed to meet demand. Under this
scenario, 1995 natural gas imports are expected to remain at the 1989
level of 7.0 billion i3. In this 'low gas imports' case, fuel switching
from coal to gas is constrained and coal exports are correspondingly lower.
The projections are based on the assumption :hat the fuel-switching
constraint mainly affects high efficiency energy consumers (coal efficiency
greater than 60%, gas efficiency 80%). Consec iently, hard coal exports
have been adjusted downward to compensate for  educed gas imports.
8.    The main results of the sensitivity analysis, assuming full implementation             e
of the project, are shown in Table 1 and graphically presented in Figures 1 to 3.
They can be summarized as follows:                                                           -
(a)   Export earnings from hard coal are critically dependent not only on
the outcome of the industry restructuring program, but also on a return
to a six-day production week in the mines. If the production week remains
at five days, Poland could become a net importer of coal soon after 1995.
(b)   If the production week returns to six days, Poland could maintain
coal exports of 15-18 million tons/year (equivalent to US$ 0.6-0.7
billion/year), depending on the availability of imported gas. As a result,
net energy imports (all fuels) would be about 50% lower than in the case
of the five day week.
(c)   If Poland is unable to increase gas imports above their 1989 level
(7 billion m3), less coal will be available for export, i.e. exports will
be at the lower end of the range given in (b) above (Figure 3).                        |
9.    Figure 4 illustrates the impact of the project on hard coal exports under
different gas import scenarios. With full implementation of the gas project, the
potential additional hard coal export revenue is about US$ 135 million/year
(equivalent to 3.4 million tons/year).                                                       l



POLAND - ENERGY SUPPLY PROJECTION                                               POLAND - ENERGY SUPPLY PROJECTION
Production based on 6-day working week                                        Comparison between 6&6-day working week
With Project                                                              With Project - Year 1995
In 000 PJ                                                                       000 Pi
PRODUCTION                                                            6PRODUCTION
4 -                                                                            4
s -                 -                  IMPORT (EXPORT)                                                                IMPORT (EXPORT)
2 --                                                                           2 --  
0
-1                            -          9                                            6-day ww        6-day ww        6-day lw        6-day ww
1988            1995           1988            1995
*  Hard Coal         EM  Lignite           O  Natural Gas
_Hard Coal          1  Lignite           3  Natural Gha                       3OhrGCrude oil a ProductaEj Coke a Electricity
Other            [EI Crude Oil & Products=  Coke a Electricity
FIGURE             ww ,    working week                                        F7GURE 2                 4
1.000 PJ * 34.129 mtce                                                         1.000 PJ * 34.129 mtce
POLAND-ENERGY IMPORT(EXPORT) PROJECTION                                          PROJECT IMPACT ON HARD COAL EXPORTS
Production based on 6-day working week                                        Production based on 0-day working week
Year 1996                                                                     Year 1996
In PJ                                                                                    _  High Gas import   M  Low Gas Import
8800 -                                             1                          26 In Mill'on tons
600 - ~ ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~       2                                           -________
Hard Coal Export Revenues fin US S Mill
400 -                                                                         20                                             Z
200                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~701
0                                                                 5~~~~~~~~~~~~66                             603
-200         ^        tg                    ^         g       E                             666        _467
-400                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 
High Gas Import                Low Gas Import
6-
Hard Coal                 1- Natural Gas                                                                                                            (D X
Cf Crude Oil a Products   O        Coke & Electricity                      0                                                        RGRE
Without Project                  With Project                     O
1 PJ * 34.129 ktce                                         FIGURE                                                                            FIGL'RE 4         



- 44 -
Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 5
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Energy Market Structure
1.    In association with the Energy Resource Development Project.  ESMAP will
undertake a number of studies to lay the foundations for a major restructuring
of the energy sector over the medium term. The following paragraphs:
(a)   briefly describe the market conditions in the main energy subsectors
- hard coal, natural gas, petroleum products, electricity and
lignite, and district heating;
(b)   list key problems in each subsector and describe one set of possible
solutions that may be considered among various restructuring options.
Hard coal
2.    Supply.  Domestic production of hard coal was 178 Mt in 1989, down from
around 191 Mt per year in earlier years. Until late 1989, both production and
domestic and foreign sales of coal were controlled by the Hard Coal Board (WWK).
These monopoly powers are now being progressively dismantled. However, there
will be no effective competition from coal imports until domestic coal is priced
at its border price (export or import parity).
3.    Demand.  In typical years, about 30 Mt per year of the highest quality
grades are exported.  Of the lowest grades, about 60 Mt are sold to a single
buyer, the Power and Lignite Board (WEWB). The remaining 100 Mt is sold to many
other consumers: industries, district heating companies and households.
Households and other small consumers require a special grade of coal ("lump
coal") which is more costly to produce than other grades. Hence on the demand
side, the market could be made reasonably competitive if power stations were able
to bid individually for grades they prefer.
4.    There are no technical reasons for a monopoly to exist in the production
or marketing of hard coal. The main function of WWK is to redistribute profits,
investment resources and foreign exchange from low-cost mines to high-cost mines.
In the long-run:
o     the optimal structure for the industry would be a large number of
independent mining companies, all selling to a number of independent
marketing companies or directly to large consumers. However, the
optimal number of companies would be less than 70 (i.e. the number
of mines), since some groups of mines would neeed to be jointly
managed, e.g. mines operating in adjacent parts of -he same deposit;
o     producers would be free to choose between exports and domestic sales;



- 45 -
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 5
o     the domestic price for tradeable grades would be the border price;
lower grades would sell at discounts determined by domestic supply
and demand and,to some extent, by the severity of environmental
standards;
o     the Government would not be involved in price setting, but would
enforce "fair trading" practices, e.g. non-discriminatory rail
freight tariffs for coal.
Natural gas
5.    Supply.  Domestic production is currently 5.4 billion m3/year.  Imports
are about 7 billion m3/y, all by pipeline from the Soviet Union. Imports are
bartered under arrangements that may or may not be more advantageous than payment
in hard currency. The scope for increasing gas imports under barter arrangements
appears to be limited, since a transition to payment in hard currency seems
likely.   Other gas import eptions are under consideration, e.g. a liquefied
natural gas (LNG) terminal on the Baltic coast.
6.    Demand.   Industry accounts for about 64% of total gas consumption and
households for about 28%. As a result of the priorities adopted in the energy
allocation system, the use of gas in electricity generation and district heat
production is negligible, and its use for space heating is severely limited.
The present excess demand for gas would probably persist even if gas and its
competing fuels were border-priced. Enforcement of environmental standards will
increase the pressure to convert from coal to gas.  Increased use of natural
gas should be the most important structural adjustment in the energy sector
during the transition to a market economy.
7.    Comment.  The distribution part of the gas supply monopoly exists for
technical reasons, i.e. the requirement to distribute gas through an integrated
network.   The main scope for increasing competition in gas supply is:   (a)
divesting PGNG's upstream service companies (drilling, manufacturing, etc.), and
inviting foreign companies to compete for exploration rights in Poland, and (b)
ensuring that oil and LPG compete with gas in relevant segrents of the gas
market.   However,  in the medium term there is little to be gained from
demonopolizing tlte management of the gas transmission and distribution networks.
Furthermore, gas prices should be decontrolled only in those segments of the
market where gas consumers could realistically switch to another fuel if
necessary.
Petroleum Droduts
8.    Supply.  Poland's domestic oil production is very low.  Apart from the
relatively low geological potential, PGNG has little incentive to search for oil,
since the company's output is sold to the refineries at a fraction of the border
price. Imports are about 13 Mt per year and total refining capacity is about
15 Mt. Most of the imports are from the Soviet Union under barter arrangements
that appear to be more favorable than purchases from international oil markets.
However, crude supplies for the refinery in Gdansk are mainly purchased at



- 46 -
Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 5
international prices in hard currency. There are also some imports of refined
products.
9.    Demand.   Gasoline rationing was eliminated in 1988.   As a result of
rationing of diesel oil to socialized enterprises, the free market for diesel
oil for vehicles appears to be in balance. Consumption of diesel oil and fuel
oil for industry and heating is very low by European standards.  This is due
partly to pricing policies and partly to central allocation. For long periods,
petroleum products were sold at prices equivalent to international hard currency
prices (at the official. exchange rate) plus a substantial tax element. Other
fuels have not been taxed, and have often been subsidized.
10.   Comment.  It would almost certainly be economic to allow oil to take a
larger portion of Poland's total energy market. However, a major increase in
imports of low-cost bartered crude seems unlikely.   Expansion of oil imports
would impose a substantial burden on the convertible balance of payments. And
the question of whether to expand domestic refining capacity would also arise.
In principle, the best framework for oil imports and refining would be:
o     to price all crude into the refineries at international market
prices, regardless of souL.'i;
o     to price  all  refined products,  including  output  of  domestic
refineries, at the CIF price of products imported from the
international market;
o     to replace the refinery turnover taxes with indirect retail taxes
(e.g. sales tax) that maintain the present revenue flows to the
Budget;
o     to allow the present refining companies to make their own decisions
on whether to import refined products or expand their refining
capacity, base, on the pricing system described above.
Ekhxifk"andUrX
11.   Supply.  Domestic production of electricity is about 145,000 GWh/year, of
which 136,000 GWh from WEWB and the remainder from a number of industrial
electricity producers. WEWB's generation comes almost entirely from 54 thermal
power stations. These plants consume 60 Mt/year of domestically-produced hard
coal and 70 Mt/year of lignite from mines that are also part of the WEWB. Hard
coal consumption is static; however, WEWB's lignite consumption has doubled
since 1980.   WEWB's consumption of gas and oil remains regligible,  while
hydropower makes a small but important contribution to peak capacity. Poland's
first nuclear plant is still at an early stage of construction. Poland imports
electricity from a joint venture in the Soviet Union and exports a small amount
to Austria. Electricity is also bartered with CMEA countries. Net electricity
imports presently amount to about 5,000 GWh. Prospects for increasing imports
of electricity are limited, either from the west or the east. Electricity trade
does not provide a good basis for domestic pricing of electricity.



- 47 -
Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 5
12.   Demand.  About 120,000 GWh/year are sold to final consumers - - 80,000 GWh
to industry, other bulk consumers and the railways, 20,000 GWh to households,
and 20,000 GWh to commerce, farms and other small users.
13.   Comment.  As in the case of natural gas, the rationale for some form of
electricity supply monopoly is the requirement to distribute electricity through
an integrated network.  At this point in Poland's economic reform it may be
premature to experiment with the state-of-the-art contractual arrangements
needed to demonopolize the electricity generation part of the WEWB, e.g. the
arrangements proposed for the break-up of the British Electricity Board. The
inclusion of the lignite mining companies in a single WEWB reflects the
integrated nature of the lignite mines and the minemouth lignite-fired power
stations. However, the transfer price of lignite understates lignite's value
in relation to the export value of the fuel it replaces (hard coal).   This
arrangement results in a hidden subsidy to electricity consumers. In the medium
term, the main scope for increasing competition in the electricity subsector is:
o     to raise electricity prices to levels that reflect WEWB's costs;
3     to introduce  legal  arrangements  (e.g.  modeled on  the  'PURPA"
legislation in the U.S.) that encourage industrial producers of
electricity and heat to undercut WEWB and sell to the public
networks or to other industrial consumers;
o     to link lignite prices to hard coal prices so as to eliminate both
the hidden subsidies to electricity consumers and WEWB's artificial
cost  advantage  in  competing  with  industrial  producers  of
electricity.
Disbtict heatiLng
14.   Supply.  Many of Poland's urban centers are served by a district heating
system. In the larger centers, baseload heat is produced by WEWB, either in
combined heat and power (CHP) stations or in large heat-only boilers.  The heat
is then sold at cost-plus to the municipal enterprises that operate the heat
distribution networks. For satellite networks in the vicinity of large centers,
the municipal district heating companies own and operate their own boilers.
15.   Demand.  Consumption of heat is split about 50/50 between industry and
households. Households are typically captive consumers since they generally are
not offered i'.cess to gas, oil or electric heating if they are connected to the
heat network. Household consumers have no control over their heat consumption
(no valves) and are not metered.
16.   Comment.  Heat networks require a high density heat load that exists only
in industrial areas, large housing estates or inner city areas.   The main
objective of a consumer heat pricing tariff should be to ensure that other fuels
(mainly gas and oil) become more competitive as the heat load becomes too sparse
for district heating. Some of Poland's heat networks are larger than they would



- 48 -
Annex 2-2
Page 5 of 5
be under a more market-oriented energy pricing system. The most economical form
of heat production is from CHP plants, either in industry or in the electricity
generation system. However, since heat cannot be economically transmitted over
distances of more than 30-50 km, the scope for taking heat from power stations
is limited. In the medium term, the highest priorities in the heat sector are:
o     to give heat consumers control over their heat consumption and then
to meter their consumption and bill on this basis;
o    to give heat consumers a choice between full-cost heat --this
implies very large increases in heat tariffs, especially for
households -- and other fuels (mainly gas and oil) at unsubsidized
prices;
o     to  reduce  heat  supply  costs  by  rehabilitating  networks  and
increasing the contribution of power station CHP and industrial CHP
plant to the heat supply.
.'
U



- 49 -
Annex2n-3
Page 1 of 8
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Energy Pricing Policy
1.    This annex describes:
o     medium term objectives for market-based energy pricing in Poland;
o     steps proposed for the transition to market-based energy pricing;
o     structure of domestic coal prices prevailing from January 1, 1990;
o     structure of relative prices of energy from January 1, 1990;
o     energy pricing objectives of the proposed SAL;
o     gas pricing targets in the Energy Resource Development Project;
o     technical definitions for the gas pricing targets.
Medim term oblectives
2.    In the medium term the most important objectives for energy pricing would
be:
(a)   to use international prices in convertible currency as the basis for
ex-producer prices of tradeables (mainly hard coal, natural gas,
crude oil and petroleum products);
(b)   to encourage competition in marketing of hard coal and petroleum
products so that their transport and distribution margins can be
decontrolled;
(c)   to allow consumer prices of energy products that are substitutes for
tradeables (mainly lignite and district heat) to rise to just below
the consumer prices of their competitors (so-called'competitive
pricing');
(d)   to design pricing systems (probably regulated by a public regulatory
body) that encourage efficient trading of gas and electricity among
the entities (e.g. production, transmission and distribution
companies) that emerge from the sector restructuring programs;
(e)   then to extend the regulatory framework so that it encourages new
companies to compete with the existing or new public utility
companies in the domestic energy networks (gas, electricity and
heat), e.g.:



- 50 -
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 8
(i)   by allowing access to the energy networks at a reasonable
tl.roughput charge,
(ii)  by requiring the public utilities to purchase energy from the
lowest-cost sources of supply.
Strate for the tansition
3.    At present Poland is in a transitional phase.  Domestic coal prices are
well below their quality-adjusted values in relation to export coals.   And
several important energy prices are too low in relation to domestic coal prices.
The approach supported by the Bark is (details para.4 onwards):
(a)   to link other energy prices to the price of coal during this
transitional period;
(b)   to base these links on typical energy price relationships observed
in Western European market economies;
(c)   to try to maintain this market-based pattern of relative prices until
the domestic price of coal has reached export parity and the main
elements of a normal pricing system have been established (para.2).
Present cod drs
4.    The Bank and the Polish Academy of Sciences have reviewed the present
structure of coal prices, with particular attention to price margins for
differences in coal quality and transport costs.  The review resulted in the
following estimates for the relationships between domestic coal prices at January
1, 1990, and their quality-adjusted values in relation to export coals:
(a)   29-39% for the most commonly used grade of steam fines, for power
generation and large industry, i.e. this price would need to be
increased approximately three times to reach export parity;
(b)   43-63% for lump coal for households.
5.    On January 1,  1990,  the Government took the first steps  towards a
deregulated and competitive coal market:
(a)   a number of the lower cost mines were separated from the Hard Coal
Board and turned into independent enterprises;
(b)   central allocation of coal was formally abolished;
(c)   the requirement to sell all coal output to the Weglokoks subsidiary
of the Hard Coal Board was abolished;
(d)   however, the schedule of maximum prices remains in force;



- 51 -
Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 8
(e)   and for domestic  sales,  individual mines  continue  to receive
subsidies equal to the difference between the controlled price and
their estimated cost of production.
6.    The stage is now set for a transition to market pricing of domestically
consumed coal. Initial next steps could be:
(a)   to move from uniform national pricing of coal (for each grade) to
ex-mine pricing of coal;
(b)   to introduce a coal pricing formula in which the prices of low
quality coals are reduced in relation to prices of higher quality
coals (as proposed by the recent commission on coal pricing) to give
a market-based incentive for investment in cleaning of steam coals
for domestic consumption;
(c)   to develop a standard method for comparing domestic coal prices with
f.o.b. export prices, e.g. the price of a reference coal within the
new coal pricing matrix plus an agreed 'average' transport
adjustment;
(d)   to continue to move the price of the reference coal towards export
parity.
7.    Three additional steps are then needed before price control on coal can
be phased out to leave export-parity pricing for tradeable grades and market-
determined differentials for lower grades:
(a)   completion of the restructuring of the Hard Coal Board;
(b)   more competition in domestic coal marketing and distribution;
(c)   elimination  of  subsidies  (i.e.  introduction  of  'hard budget
constraints') to major hard coal consumers to reduce the risk that
they will bid for higher quality coals than they need to minimize
costs (this mainly concerns individual power stations).
Present relative energy grices
8.    The price structure prevailing from January 1, 1990, for coal and the other
main fuels is summarized in the table below in both natural units (kg, m3, kWh)
and in a common energy unit (Mcal):



- 52 -
Annex 2-3
Page 4 of 8
- esent p pkoes-    -....-pfeposed prices-.-.-----..
/naL  kcal  zl   index  zl   zl/nat. new/old increas: to coal
xl    unit  /unit  /Mcal /Mcal /Mcal unit  prce  export parity I/
hard coal 110   /kg   4720  23.3   1.0  23.3  110.0  1.00    x 3.0 approx.
lignite  25   /kg   2000  12.5   0.7  16.3   32.6  1.30 l/    x 3.9
natural gas
industry 696   /m3   8200  84.9  2.8  65.2  535   0.77    x 2.3
households 115  /m3   8200  14.0   4.2  97.9  802   6.98 I/  x 20.9
fuel oi
high sulfur 76S   /kg   9500  80.5  3.2  74.6  708   0.93    x 2.8
low sulfur 870   /kg   9500  91.6  3.5  81.6  775  09    x 2.7
electricity
Industry 235.6  /kWh  860   274.0  8.2  191.1  164.3  0.70    x 2.1
households 106.5  /kWh  860   123.8  13.3  309.9  266.5  250 1/  x 7.5
l/ these uels require substantial price increases to bring them into line with present coal prices.
2/ assuming that January 1, 1990, domestic coal prices need to be Increased by a factor of about thmee to bring them up
to export parity.
9.    The table above also includes proposed levels for a new set of relative
prices for energy ('proposed prices') based on the pattern of energy prices
typically observed in West European market economies ('index').  A specified
grade of coal would be defined as the reference fuel (index - 1.0). Other energy
prices would be adjusted progressively to reach the relationships specified in
the index, and maintained broadly in those relationships during the coal price             m
transition to export parity.
10.   The main conclusions from the table above are:
(a)   the prices of natural gas and electricity for households need to be
increased by about 7 times and 2-3 times respectively (in January
1, 1990, prices) to bring them roughly into line with other domestic
energy prices;
(b)   with the exception of lignite, the main industrial energy prices (of
January 1, 1990) do not require major adjustments in relation to the
price of coal for power generation and industry;
(c)   as the domestic price of coal is raised towards export parity (i.e.
multiplied by about three in real terms):
(i)   natural gas and electricity prices for households will also
need to be increased by about three times (on top of the
increases in para.(a) above);
(ii)  real increases in the range 2-4 times will be needed for
industrial energy prices.
11.   The table in paragraph 8 covers the main fuels where substitution between
fuels already occurs (for industrial fuels) or will occur in the longer term
(for households). However:



- 53 -
Annex 2-3
Page 5 of 8
(a)   for completeness the proposed system of relative prices should also
monitor prices for high quality lump coal for households and district
heat prices for industry and for households;
(b)   the prices of coking coals are set within the overall pricing system
for coal, and since coking coal is more a chemical product than a
fuel, its price could be omitted from the proposed system of relative
prices;
(c)   for lower quality gas fuels, it would be sufficient to base the price
targets on the price of natural gas adjusted for differences in heat
value;
(d)   the case for including transport fuels (gasoline and diesel) in the
system of relative prices is relatively weak, unless the same quality
of diesel is used both for transport and heating.
Obiectives of the protosed SAL
12.   Under the proposed SAL, agreement would be sought to:
(a)   adjust domestic energy prices (including district heat, lignite,
natural gas, fuel oils, gas-oil and electricity) to industrial
Lonsumers to bring them into the same relationship with domestic coal
prices as is typically observed in West European market economies,
by end 1990;
(b)   adjust domestic energy prices (including district heat, natural gas,
gas-oil and electricity) to households to levels equal to at least
50% of prices paid by industrial consumers, by end 1990, and to 100%
by end 1991;
(c)   progressively liberalize domestic coal prices and remove erport taxes
so that prices are free to rise to world levels by end 1992, with
consequent adjustments to other energy prices, as described under
(a) and (b) above.
Gas prcing taMets
13.   The gas pricing targets in the Energy Resource Development Project are
designed to be consistent with the general relative pricing framework proposed
for the first SAL. There is a difference in definition. In the proposed SAL,
all energy prices-including gas prices- are defined in a certain relationship
to domestic coal prices. In the Energy Resource Development Project, the gas
pricing targets are defined in relation to the absolute values of gas prices
observed in Western European market economies.   These two trajectories will
remain broadly consistent if coal prices move towards border prices as proposed.
If not, the targets in the Energy Resource Development Project will ensure that



- 54 -
Annex 2-3
Page 6 of 8
domestic gas prices continue to move towards international levels, even if the
relative price of gas thereby reaches higher levels than would be desirable in
a fully balanced price reform.
14.   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a)   gas prices to industry will be raised to average West European price
levels by end 1992 in accordance with an agreed schedule and using
a representative basket of comparators;
(b)   by end 1991 household gas tariffs will be set at levels not lower
than industrial tariffs and gradually be increased to reflect fully,
by end 1995, the additional delivery costs; and
(c)   the Government will review with the Bank, on a semi-annual basis,
the measures proposed to be taken by the Government to achieve the
above targets.
15.   A gss pricing study would provide further guidance as to the optimal
structure and levels of tariffs. Agreement was also reached on the methodology
and the comparator countries to be used in determining gas prices to industry,
as well as on the schedule along which the necessary adjustments would be made
(para.16-24).   Where feasible, tariffs would be reviewed and, if necessary
increased, at the end of each quarter to offset the possible effects of
inflation.
Deflnidons for gasnriinglargfa
16.   The covenants in Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement are described in
terms of prices of standard 'high-methane' natural gas. These covenants would
apply to all forms of natural, coke-oven and manufactured gas distributed through
networks. The prices of these tuels would be set such that their average price
per energy unit is the same as for 'high-methane' natural gas.
17.   The 'level of prices' means the gross revenue from sales of natural gas
to a particular category of consumer divided by the total amount of natural gas
sold to that category of consumer. All prices would be net of taxes applied
specifically to gas sales. Domestic prices and European prices would be adjusted
to common energy and currency units before comparison.
18.   The representative basket of member countries of the European Community
would consist of Belgium, France, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of
Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy. If this basket becomes unrepresentative
in the future, the countries in the basket may be changed by mutual agreement
between the Republic of Poland and the Bank.
19.   The comparator gas price data for the basket of European countries would
be taken from the most recent quarterly edition of 'Energy Prices and Taxes'
published by the International Energy Agency (OECD, Paris). In cases where



- 55 -
Annex 2-3
Page 7 of 8
these data are unavailable or are believed to be unrepresentative due to
publication delays, alternative data from other public sources may be substituted
by mutual agreement between the Government and the Bank.
20.   For the purposes of sub-section (a), 'domestic industrial consumers' would
comprise all gas consumers in Poland other than households, and that the
comparator data for European countries would be 'natural gas prices for
industry' as defined in 'Energy Prices and Taxes' (see para.19 above). These
definitions may be revised by mutual agreement if the consumption of natural gas
for power generation becomes more significant than at present. For sub-section
(b), the comparator data would be 'natural gas prices for households' as defined
in 'Energy Prices and Taxes'.
21.  The schedules for future adjustments in gas prices for industrial consumers
and household consumers set out below are acceptable to the Bank for the purposes
of Section 3.01 of the tuarantee Agreement. The linking of domestic gas prices
through the exchange rate to European gas prices would protect the real value
of domestic gas prices at each of the proposed adjustment times. However, the
real value of gas revenues should not be unduly eroded by possible domestic
inflation during the six-month intervals between each of the agreed gas price
adjustments. For this reason, the Government would adjust gas prices at three
month intervals in all consumer categories where this is feasible.
22.  The prices of natural gas to industrial consumers would be adjusted
according to the following schedule:
70.0 percent     -    by December 31, 1990           ($94.5)    i V
77.5 percent     -    by June 30, 1991               ($lC'_.6)
85.0 percent     -    by December 31, 1991           ($114.8)
92.5 percent     -    by June 30, 1992               ($124.9)
100.0 percent    -    by December 31, 1992           ($135.0)
and maintained at 100 percent thereafter
V    70.0 percent means that the average domestic price of natural gas to Industrial consumers would be equivalent to 70 percent
of the price comparator described In Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
a'   data In parentheses indicate best estimates On $US per thousand cubic meters) at the time of negotiations; these estimates are
Indicative only.
23.  The prices of natural gas to household consumers would be adjusted, in
relation to the prices of natural gas to industrial consumers, according to the
following schedule through to December 31, 1992:
50 percent  -    by December 31, 1990          ($47.3)    i/a'
75 percent  -    by June 30, 1991              ($78.5)
100 percent -    by December 31, 1991          ($114.8)
100 percent -    on June 30, 1992              ($124.9)
100 percent -    on December 31, 1992          ($135.0)
and maintained thereafter
V/    50.0 percent means that the average domestic price of natural gas to household consumers would be equivalent to 50 percent
of the average domestic price of natural gas to industrW consumers on the same date;
2/   as for 2/ above.



- 56 -
Annex 2-3
Page 8 of 8
24.   In order to ensure that the prices of natural gas to household consumers
would also recover the additional costs of delivering natural gas to household
consumers (i.e. additional network-related costs over and above the costs of
delivering natural gas to industrial consumers), the prices of natural gas to
household consumers would be adjusted according to the following schedule from
January 1, 1993, through to December 31, 1995:
33 percent  -       by December 31, 1993               ($162)       S v
67 percent  -       by December 31, 1994               ($189)
100 percent -       by December 31, 1995               ($216)       E
/      X peo  mOas th the avea domestic P d natal gas to household COnMet would also recover 33 percent of
the adalonats dt delverfng natural gas to household cornsumers i.e. adional nek-related costs over and above the
Cest of deliedvng natural gas to IndustriW consumes;
as tor a/ above:
Othe trget tor ful cosecovety of nertwor costs would be deflned by the Gas Tariff Study to be completed before the end of
t990.



- 57 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Coal and Lignite Sector
Hard Coal
1.    Production and Consumption.  Poland is the fourth largest producer of hard
coal in the world, after China, the USA and the USSR. During 1982-88 the country
produced on average 191 million tons (Mt) of coal per annum (192 Mt in 1988);
due to the introduction of a five-day work week in the mines, output dropped to
178 Mt in 1989, and is expected to drop further to 161 Mt by 1995. A return to
a six-day work week could result in a 1995 hard coal production of 175 Mt. On
average, about 83% of the coal produced is steam coal and 17% is coking coal.
The coal is produced from 68 deep underground mines; about 98% of total output
is produced in Upper Silesia.  All mines are highly mechanized and longwall
production is predominant. Production conditions are difficult. Average mining
depth is already 600 meters and increasing by 8-10 meters per year and, with it,
the cost of production. Most mines have high temperature problems, rockbursts
and gas hazards.   It will be difficult to maintain present output levels.
Replacement capacity coming on stream over the next 5-10 years will not
compensate for old capacity being depleted or shut down.
2.    Despite  stagnant  production  levels,  domestic  hard  coal  consumption
increased by about 1.5% per annum during 1976-1982 and remained essentially
level thereafter (plus 0.3% per annum, but subject to considerable annual
fluctuations due to climate variations). About 31% of total production is used
for electricity generation, 32% for industry, 15% for district heating, and 5%
for other domestic users. Only about 17% of total production is being exported
(para.7).
3.    Reserves. Poland has about 63 billion tons of estimated hard coal reserves,
of which about 36 billion tons could be minable with current production
technologies. About 88% of these reserves are located in Upper Silesia. Polish
hard coal quality is good. Its high calorific value (5,300 - 5,600 kcal/kg for
run-of-mine coal, or 6,200 kcal/kg for export grade coal) and low sulfur content
match power plant boiler specifications in Western Europe.
4.    Productivity.  Total hard coal sector related employment was 595,000 as
of end 1988, including the mines, manufactdring, construction, research,
engineering and sales enterprises. The hard coal mines alone employed 429,000
persons, 64% of which work underground. The labor force is highly skilled.
Miners' wages are about double the national average, but several times lower
than those earned by coal miners in the West. A low cost, skilled and productive
labor force is one of the most significant comparative advantages of the Polish
hard coal industry. Almost 97% of the coal is produced by mechanical means,
compared to 98% in West Germany. Given the shortage of skilled miners and the
increasing proportion of thinner and deeper coal seams, more sophisticated thin
seam  mining  equipment  will  need  to  be  introduced.    Underground  labor
productivity, at 3.3 tons per manshift, is about 30% lower than in West Germany
and the UK, partly due to the more difficult geological conditions. The overall
labor productivity, including all surface personnel, is 2.1 tons per manshift.



- 58 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 4
or 36% lower than the underground productivity, compared to a corresponding
productivity drop of only 23% in West Germany and the UK. This is explained by
the fact that in Poland more services are included while at the same time there
may be a higher degree of overstaffing.
5     Given that the six largest mines in Upper Silesia achieve a productivity
of 4.1-5.5 tons per manshift, as compared to the national average of 3.3 tons
(para 4), many other mines must be producing at levels considerably below the
national average and should be closed.   Estimates of the total capacity of
uneconomic mines range from 15 Mt up to 40 Mt.  Mine closure would enhance
overall productivity, but also negatively affect total hard coal production.
6.    Safety and Health. Given the difficult geological and working conditions,
the safety record of Polish mines is at par with mines in Western Europe. There
is a systematic broad-scale accident prevention program. Similarly, the health
record in Polish mines is comparable to that in Western Europe, and free medical
service is of good qusAlity. A well staffed independent mining inspectorate
constantly monitors safety and health conditions and has the authority to
initiate corrective action and assess penalties against the mines.
7.    Coal Exports.   Over the period 1982-87, hard coal exports amounted on
average to about 35 Mt, of which 25 Mt (or 71%) was steam coal and 10 Mt (or
29%) was coking coal. With exports of 31.2 Mt of hard coal in 1988, representing
about 10% of the world coal trade, Poland ranks fourth in export volume behind
Australia, the US and South Africa, but ahead of Canada and the USSR. The value
of Polish Coal exports in 1988 was equivalent to 10% of total export earnings
(12% of hard currency export earnings). Howevc., Polish coal exports have been
declining from 42.9 Mt in 1984 to 31.2 Mt in 1988 and to an estimated 28.9 Mt
in 1989. Even assuming that a 6-day work week is reintroduced (para 1), hard coal
exports are expected to decline to 15-18 Mt by 1995. Unless hard coal substitutes
are used on a large scale and energy conservation becomes widespread it is,
therefore, unlikely that future coal exports can be maintained at the present
level.
8.    About 60% of total exports go to convertible currency markets, of which
about half to the European Community (EC).  The remaining 40% goes to CMLEA
countries, of which about three-quarters to the USSR. Poland has been able to
increase its share of coking coal in exports from 24% in 1984 to over 30% in
1988, thereby increasing export values. Export prices to convertible currency
countries rose sharply in the early 1980's in response to world market
conditions. However, prices have declined to below their 1980 levels and are
currently around US$ 40 and US$ 50 per ton for steam and coking coal
respectively.
9.    Poland has a market share of 11% of EC coal imports, 21% of Latin American
imports and 42X of CMEA imports. Its location and consequently lower transport
costs to European consumers, and the fart that many power plants are geared to
Polish coal specifications, give it an assured market. CMEA sales are made in
the context of overall trade agreements; the effective price has decreased
gradually and in 1987 was between 35% (steam coal) and 45% (coking coal) of
convertible currency export prices.



- 59 -
Annex 3-1
Page 3 of 4
10.   Investments.  Total investments in hard coal mines equivalent to about
US$ 3.0 billion in 1987 prices would have been required during 1986-90 of 4
maintain production levels of 195 Mt per annum through the year 2000.
Three-quarters of these investments would be for expansion and rehabilitation
of existing mines, since economic new mine investment opportunities are limited.
However, the Government reportedly authorized an investment level of only about
two-thirds of that amount, which is only adequate to keep existing mines
operating at about their present production levels.
11.   Of the 7 new hard coal mines under construction at the end of 1987, five
were in Upper Silesia and on average half completed. Two new mines were in the
Lublin area: Bogdanka (2.4 Mt per annum) and Stefanow (3.0 Mtpa). The Bogdanka
mine is 68% complete. Ground pressures - and therefore operating costs- have
been much higher than expected. In addition, the capital cost of about US$ 200
per annual ton of capacity is about twice that of new mines in Upper Silesia.
The Stefanow mine, only 17% complete and with an estimated capital cost of US$
180/ton, was expected to have similar operating conditions. Partly as a result
of the shortage of investment funds and partly at the Bank's urging not to
proceed with uneconomic investments, plans for new mines have been shelved and
construction of the Bogdanka and Stefanow mines was stopped in 1988.
12.   Pricing.  Domestic hard coal prices are set by the Government. The Hard
Coal Board determines the geographical supply patterns and includes the rail
transport cost in the price, which constitutes 12% of the delivered coal cost.
Although the 1982 Law on Pricing states that hard coal prices are to be based
on prices obtained for coal exported to convertible currency countries, this
level has not been attained. To offset the gap between prices and production
cost, the mining industry receives operating subsidies.   The Government has
proposed a significant decrease in subsidies by no longer paying the difference
between the border price and tne domestic price of coal to the mines. Instead,
each mine would receive a fixed subsidy per ton of coal produced, regardless of
production costs (aad which reportedly vary by a factor of up to 8 times between
mines).   As a result of the new subsidy system, unprofitable mines would
gradually be forced to close if the subsidy element is set low enough.
13.   Industry.  Poland has a well developed coal min'ng equipment and mine
construction industry. Production value in 1988 exceeded $500 million (at the
official exchange rate) in 1988, of which about 20% was exported. The industry
also provides most spare parts and subassemblies needed for maintenance of mining
equipment.
Limit.
14.   Lignite is produced from 7 relatively large opencast mines (managed by
four lignite mining companies), using mostly continuous excavation systems.
Production has been increasing from about 38 Mt in 1982 to 73 Mt in 1988. The
rapid build-up is mainly due to the coming on-stream of the giant Belchatow
mine, with an ultimate capacity of 38 Mtpa.   With one exception (para 18)
expansion possibilities are limited because most proven reserves have unfavorable
geological settings. It is expected that, without investments in new mines or



- 60 -
Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 4
expansions, the present production level could be maintained until the year 2000
and would gradually decline thereafter due to depletion of reserves. Foreign
exchange shortages have delayed replacement of auxiliary mining equipment, which
is now affecting the productivity of the main excavators in all mines.
15.   On January 1, 1989, the Lignite Mining Association was abolished and
transformed into a department of the Power and Lignite Board. Nine autonomous
entities were created:  4 lignite mining companies, 2 equipment manufacturing
cor?anies, 1 construction company, 1 transport company and 1 engineering company.
Of the four lignite mining companies Belchatow, witb an annual production of 35
Mt, is the largest and lowest cost Polish lignite producer.  Turow, with an
annual productioa of 20 Mt, is second largest producer. Konin (14 Mt from four
separate mines) is third and Adamow is fourth (4Mt).
16.   Lignite reserves are estimated at 12.4 billion tons. of which only 3
billion tons are sufficiently close to the surface to be economically minable.
Lignite's calorific value is low (1,900-2,100 kcal/kg) and its moisture content
high (48-50%); its use is therefore essentially limited to specially designed
mine mouth powdr plants who consume P"out 95% of the total lignite production,
with the remainder being consumed by i -ustry. Because of its low energy content
and high transportation cost in relation theret3, combined with a tendency to
spontaneous combustion, lignite is not a readily tradeable commodity.   Only
insignificant amounts are exported in border trade with East Germany.
17.   Polish lignite mines employed about 30,000 persons as of the end of 1988.
Overall productivity is around 15 tons/manshift, with productivity at the very
large Belchatow mine about 28 tons/manshift. This is comparable to productivity
in West Germany of over 35 tons/manshift,  in view of the differences  in
geological conditions and work performed by subcontractors there.
18.   Lignite investments for 1986-90 amounted to US$ 0.6 billion equivalent
(1989 prices) for completion of the Belchatow and Konin mines and for maintaining
production levels at existing mines.   In future, there is only one more new
lignite investment planned: development of the 30 Mtpa Szczercow mine, which is
adjacent to the Belchatow mine. Szczercow would replace the Belchatow mine in
the long-run, while increasing the total output of Belchatow Mining Company in
the medium-run. This project was initially part of the present 5-year plan, but
was postponed due to lack of funds.
19.   Lignite Drices are set by the Power and Lignite Board.  However, the Board
is severely restricted in adjusting prices because all its activities, from
lignite mining through power distribution have to be financed from power sales
at tariffs set by the Ministry of Finance. Electricity tariffs are insufficAent
to cover the Board's operating costs and to allow an appropriate level of self-
financing of necessary investments. Although the Board is favoring the lignite
mining industry by charging most of its losses to the power system, present
lignite prices (January 1, 1990), adjusted for the difference in heat content
and power plant costs, average only about 26% of border prices of exported steam
coal.



- 61 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Oil and Gas Sector
oil
1.    Oil production in Poland is of minor importance and presently it supplies
only about 1% of domestic consumption. Production reached 584,500 ton/year in
1975 but has levelled off to 162,800 ton/year at present. Recently some new oil
discoveries have been made which may result in a future production increase.
Most oil is imported from the USSR (12.7 Mt 1988), while smaller volumes (2.3
Mt) are bought on the open market. The USSR is cutting back on its long-term
delivery commitments and has indicated that, starting in 1991, deliveries would
be at world market prices. Poland increased oil imports from OPEC countries to
2.6 Mt in 1989, much of it through counter trade arrangements (factory repairs
and power generation equipment) with Iran and Iraq. Poland reportedly has agreed
to buy, at below market prices, Soviet crude oil from Finland, which has an
oversupply as a result of trade balancing agreements with the USSR.
Natural Gas
2.    Poland's gas production is of much greater importance than its oil
production.    However,  total  gas  production  (including  natural  gas  and
manufactured gas) has declined by 35% over the last 10 years (from 8.0 billion
m3 in 1978 to 5.4 billion m3 in 1988), due to depletion of most producing fields
and because none of the recent medium size discoveries could be put on stream
for lack of foreign exchange. With a volume of 5.4 billion m3 in 1988, local
production supplied 44% of the domestic consumption of natural gas, the remainder
being imported from the USSR.   Gas imports from the USSR increased from 2.5
billion e3 in 1975 to 7.0 billion m3 in 1988, following completion in 1986 of the
gas pipeline from Kobryn (USSR) to Warsaw.
3.    More than 40 gas fields are currently in production.  Gas production peaked
in 1978 with an annual rate of 6.7 billion m3 of high methane equivalent and then
started declining in 1979 to reach 4.1 billion e3 in 1983.   Subsequent to
investments made in the early 1980's following the worldwide energy Drice
increases of the late 1970's, production increased to 4.8 billion m3 in 1985.
Since then, it has been declining steadily to about 4.0 billion m3 in 1989.
Unless current productivity is substantially enhanced and new fields are put on
stream, production will continue to decline to the approximately 2.90 billion
m3 by 1995 and 2.0 billion 3 by the year 2000.
4.    Consumption.   On an energy basis natural gas (high methane and high
nitrogen)  constitutes 90X of the  total Polish gas consumption.   This  is
supplemented in some areas by locally produced low methane gas and gas from
demethanation of coal mines. In the South, there are also two other major gas
systems. The largest is an old coke gas network that distributes low -alorific
gas to metallurgical industries. A slightly smaller network distributes medium
calorific gas, primarily to chemical industries.   Many municipalities also
operate town gas networks based on expensive conversion of coal to gas; some of



- 62 -
Annex 3-2
eage 2 of 4
these expensive and inefficient systems will be phased out. Finally, there are
some small local networks that distribute propane and butane.
5.    Average annual natural gas consumption grew steadily from 7.5 billion m3
in 1975 to 12.4 billion e3 in 1988 and is expected to increase to 16 billion m3
by the year 2000; this would imply a 7.2 billion m3 shortfall compared to
combined production and imports in that year. In 1988, households accounted for
28% of total gas consumption and industry for 64%, notably the steel and chemical
industries particularly those requiring very high temperature not obtainable
otherwise (iron rolling mills, glass and some of the chemical manufacturing).
The balance is consumed by the commer'-ial sector, PGNG's own consumption and
system losses. Even though industrial gas prices are much closer to economic
cost than prices of competing fuels (coal and district heat), there is
considerable excess demand for gas in industry. Central energy allocation,
however, imposes annual quantity limits plus day to day rationing on industry,
especially during mid-winter, and allocates negligible amounts of gas for power
generation and district heat production.  Household use of gas is generally
limited to cooking, because space heating and hot water are --in urban areas--
provided by district heating networks.
6.    As in the past, future gas con-umption will be driven much more by a
constrained supply than a real demand.  Current Government plans indicate no
significant changes in the industrial sector demand but project a substantial
increase in the consumption of the household sector.  As of now, about 5.70
million households are supplied with 3.90 to 4.20 million m3 a year.   The
government projects to supply at least 6.5 to 7.0 million households by 1995
with about 6.0 billion e3. This sector has always exerted a great pressure on
the Polish gas supply program and the Government is expected to give it priority.
7.    Reserves. Poland's major identified and potential gas reserves are in the
Carpathian and in the Central Lowlands (Map IBRD 22056). The prospective reserve
area covers 257,000 square kilometers or 82% of the country. In general,
structures are numerous but small and require high resolution mapping techniques
for accurate delineation. The most prolific reservoirs are found in the Central
Lowlands area, which has the same geological formations which are present under
most of Northwest Europe. In the Central Lowlands area, there are 20 billion
m3 of identified and as yet undeveloped reserves and 70 billion m3 identified
reserves from which production has already been starte" In South East Poland
reserves of these same categories are 9 and 53 billion ma respectively. These
identified reserves will be the major source for the increased gas production
under the proposed project. Exploration efforts in Poland's offshore area in
the Baltic Sea have proved unsuccessful.
8.    Poland's strategy in locating reserves focuses on currently producing
areas. This pragmatic approach produced good results in the past and minimizes
large and risky exploration expenditures. However, since potential resources in
unproven areas will ultimately become important as reserves in proven areas are
being depleted, a low level exploration effort is also maintained there.
Exploration in the producing areas requires increasingly advanced technologies
to delineate remaining traps around and between producing fields. Equipment
needed for these technologies is only partly available in Poland.



- 63 -
Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 4
9.    The possibilities for foreign participation in oil and gas exploration
are currently actively being pursued, In early 1989 Poland declared itself open
to foreign exploration companies and since then some 17 companies have expressed
interest. However there is at this moment no legal framework for joint ventures
in the oil and gas sector. The existing mining and geological laws address only
coal and mineral mining by domestic enterprises and a petroleum law is only in
the early draft stage. The Bank will provide technical assistance to Poland to
set up the legal framework necessary for foreign participation in the oil and
gas sector. Since Poland is basically gas (rather than oil) prone, agreements
on the offtake of gas that would eventually be produced will form a basic element
in joint venture contracting. Small quantities of helium (a by-product of gas
production) have for some time been sold by PGNG to a US subsidiary of British
Oxygen; the parent company has recently expressed interest in a joint venture
with PGNG to increase helium production in Poland.
10.   Productivity. The Polish gas and oil sector employs about 46,500 people.
PGNG has a long and excellent experience in all gas and oil activities but,
although its staff is well qualified, productivity is generally low. Although
the lack of financial incentives plays a role, this is primarily due to the lack
of proper equipment: PGNG has 110  --mostly old-- drilling rigs, of which about
40 are at any time under repair. The remaining rigs drill on average 4,000-
5,000 meters per rig-year;  this is very little in comparison with Western
standards of 12,000-15,000 meters for exploration and 25,000-30,000 meters for
production wells.  Seismic crews produce only about 50% of the profiles that
would be produced by Western crews under similar conditions. Efficiency is
reduced by cumbersome regulations on access to property. While this is elsewhere
straightforward payment of crop damages, in Poland this reportedly involves
committee meetings of farmer unions and time consuming negotiations. This often
results in lengthy interruptions of the surveys, which towards the harvest season
may .iave to be stopped completely.   Other regulations which interfere with
efficient operations concern the obligation of the exploration department to
completely delineate a new field before this can be taken over by the production
department. This results in the drilling of an excessive number of exploration
wells.
Production Methods
11.   Proved in place reserves are estimated at about 250 billion i3.  About 70
to 80% of these reserves are recoverable, of which about half are undeveloped
and require new investment in order to be produced. Reservoirs are generally
produced at a high rate at the beginning making them decline sharply with no time
given for a stabilized production (plateau). As a result, most of the fields
are produced at a lower level for a long period. This production method, which
is generally driven by the need to produce as much gas as possible following the
field discovery is characterized by an under utilization of the field surface
facilities after their first 3 or 4 years of service. Several field reservoirs
have a low effective perm'ability particularly some of the deep ones discovered
over the last 10 years. This requires reservoir stimulation technology which
is not available in Poland.



- 64 -
Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 4
12.   PGNG's operating enterprises have developed a high degree of technical
competence. Within the context of the technology and capability of equipment
available, technical staff have proficient operating skills.  However, while
these were adequate for the initial exploration and primary production of
existing fields, they are inadequate for maximizing the production from partially
depleted fields and for exploring and developing the less obvious and more subtle
hydrocarbon traps often found in deep and complex geological formations with
difficult drilling conditions. Together with worn out and often obsolete field
equipment, this penalizes production in several fields, particularly those with
high water cut. The productivity of most new infill development wells is below
what normally could be expected. In addition, producing wells are rehabilitated
more often than they should be and their restored production is much below the
normal rate (roughly 40% of new wells and 60X of expected flow rates given the
characteristics of their reservoirs).
13.   Exploration has concentrated on areas adjoining producing fields.  Several
deep high pressure discoveries have been made but could not be conclusively
evaluated. More than 20 prospects identified over recent years could not be
tested and put into production either because reservoir conditions could not be
met by existing drilling and production equipment or because the gas sulphur
content is too high requiring desulphurization processes and equipment currently
not available in the country. As a result, several deep geological structures
remain unexplored and will ultimately become the future sources of additional
gas reserves. In this context AMOCO will conduct, under the first major
exploration agreement by a Western company in Eastern Europe, a 12-month
evaluation of Polish oil and gas prospects. The agreement covers existing data
on more than 51 million acres including producing areas from the southeast to
the northwest of the country.
14.   Exploration expenses are treated as operating expenses.  Capitalized
expenditures averaged about 10% of the exploration budget over the last four
years. The exploration budget has been constant in real terms at Zl 32.6 billion
(1988) over the last five years. On the average, not including a small quantity
of oil, some 8.0 be3 new reserves are discovered each year, which represents a
finding cost of Zl 4.0/m3 (1988) or US$ 0.26/mcf. These low finding costs reflect
the sati.3factory volume of new gas reserves found per year, as well as low labor
costs and mostly amortized equipment.



- 65 -
Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hydrocarbon Exploration and Reserves
1.    ProsRective Areas.   The general geology of Poland is well known. It is
accepted that some 82X of its territory holds prospects for the occurrence of
hydrocarbons. Newly discovered areas were, after initial discoveries of oil,
increasingly found to be only gas-bearing. Poland has two main areas that are
prospective for oil and gas, the Carpathian and the Central Lowlands. The
Carpathian comprises the Carpathian Mountains and the Carpathian Foredeep. The
Carpathian Mountains are the surface evidence of an overthtusted geological mass
(Flysch), which rests on top of relatively undisturbed deeper sediments. Oil and
gas are found both in and below the overthrusted mass. The Carpathian foredeep
area is a relatively undisturbed area filled with younger sediments to the north
of the Carpathian Mountains. The Central Lowlands are, in fact, an eastern
extension of the large sedimentary basin stretching over most of northwest
Europe. In Poland this basin is filled locally with sediments of up to 12,000
meters thick. Most of these sediments have been found to be productive elsewhere
in Europe, e.g. in the I-etherlands and the North Sea. This area holds the best
possibilities for finding additional reserves.
2.    Exploration Strategy.  In general, Polish production comes from rather
small fields (< 10.0 billion me of recoverable gas reserves). These fields are
situated in the Carpathian areas and in the southwest region of the Polish Plain,
near the edge of the basin sloping down from the Sudetic Mountains. These
producing areas contain proven oil and gas reserves and as such are the most
promising and least risky areas in Poland to search for further reserves. It is
here that PGNG concentrates most of its exploration efforts; ten of the fourteen
seismic crews are working in these areas. This prudent approach is likely to
yield the highest returns on exploration expenditures. However, the fields are
generally small and the larger among the small fields will have been found first.
Consequently, further exploration has to employ more and more accurate technology
to locate the remaining accumulations.
3.    New technology.   Prospects in these producing areas can be new fields
located between the already producing fields or extensions to the producing
reservoirs holding additional reserves. In both cases it is likely that these
can be produced economically as they are located in the proximity of existing
gas pipelines. A new technology, now widely applied in exploration, specifically
aims at pinpointing these smaller targets. This "3D" technique provides a three
dimensional underground image, which permits a much more accurate delineation
of the reservoir than would be possible with the conventional 2D method. If the
3D method is applied on newly discovered prospects it will be possible to place
first exploration wells more accurately and detelmine with fewer wells whether
a prospect is viable. If applied after exploration but before the development
of a field, it will enable the production engineers to select locations for
production wells more efficiently and thus reduce the total number of wells. In
oth cases drilling will be reduced. The project will provide PGNG engineers



- 66 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 3
with field and computer equipment to start implementation of this new technology.
4.    Exploration outside producing areas.  As ultimately  reserves  in  the
presently producing areas will he depleted, a low-level exploration program is
maintained in the other prospective areas of Poland. A small part of this program
is implemented together w4th the Polish Geological Institute, studying the
stratigraphy of the country. This exploration program has resulted in the
discovery of potentially new reserves in two new zones near the Baltic coast
and in one zone in the Lublin area 150 km southeast of Warsaw. In these areas
small scale production and testing of reservoirs is in preparation and more of
the exploration activities will be concentrated here. These areas may make a
significant contribution to Poland's future gas production.
5.    Exploration Results.   Exploration in Poland has succeeded in discovering
150 gas fields and 50 oil fields since 1945, with a total recoverable volume of
295 billion m3 of gas and 12.8 Mt of oil. In the same period 120 billion m3 and
12.5 Mt were produced. Today, exploration still discovers some 6.0-8.0 billion
m3 of additional recoverable gas reserves per year, with an exceptional 9.6
billion m3 in 1988 (see table 1). Oil discoveries are variable and not more then
several hundred Mt per year but some encouraging finds were located recently.
PGNG's exploration budget has been constant in real terms over the last years.
With this budget, 290,000 meters of exploration wells are drilled and 4,200 km
of seismic profiles recorded per year.  There is no apparent decline in the
volume of gas found with this constant effort, which suggests that remaining
potential reserves are not appreciably reduced by the substraction of found
reserves.
6.    Remaining Discovered Reserves.    Estimated oil and gas reserves as of
January 1989 are shown in table 2.  The "in place" volumes are the quantities
of oil/gas actually present in the reservoir, of which only a part is
economically recoverable.   For oil, this percentage may be 20% for primary
production methods. With secondary or tertiary methods this percentage may be
enhanced to some 40% depending on the characteristics of the reservoirs and the
market price for oil. For gas these percentages may be 50% and 70% respectively.
The rather high percentages for oil and gas in the Carpathian Flysch reservoirs
may indicate that originally there was more "in place" oil contributing to the
production than estimated in the table. If the cumulative production, since the
start of production from the fields, is substracted from the original "in place"
reserves this will give the presently remaining "in place" reserves. In the same
way substraction of the cumulative production from the original recoverable
reserves will give the presently recoverable reserves. The presently remaining
recoverable gas reserves are 162.66 billion e3, which means that with a
production of 5.3 billion e3, only 3.27% of these reserves are produced per year.
Normally it should be possible to produce some 8% of the remaining recoverable
gas reserves per year. The low percentage achieved by PGNG indicates that there
is a potential for a substantial increase of gas production through
implementation of the project.
7.    Remaining Potential Reserves.   Potential reserves have not yet seen
physically located but their presence may be postulated. The first caLeg-' y



- 67 -
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 3
(Dl) relates to possible reserves in reservoir rock which has been found to be
productive in Poland. However, outside the main producing area and some areas
being tested, no commercial production has yet been found in these reservoir
rocks. The second category (D2) carries a higher degree of uncertainty as it
relates to potential reserves in rock formations that have not yet been found
productive in Poland. However, the characteristics of this rock are such that
from general geological reasoning and from analogy to similar rock formations
in other parts of the world, the prese-ce of hydrocarbons is possible.  The
calculation of reserves in these categories is mainly based on rock volumes and
uses a number of assumptions, such as the area over which the rock formation is
present, its expected thickness and the size and frequency of structural traps.
The Dl category is expected to have a total of 318 billion m3 of recoverable gas
reserves, and it is in this large volume that exploration is likely to find
future additions to the proven reserves. The D2 category is considered too
hypothetical for reserve calculations to be made as long as there are no positive
indications found in these formations.



- 68 -
annex 3-3
Table 1
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PGNG - Exploration Results 1971 - 1995
.--
YEAR  DRILLING EXPENDITURES                            ADDITION TO RESERVES
(km)       Zi-milLion      Oil      Associated      as       Total            Result
('000 tons) Gas (Mm3 )  (Mm3)  ('000 toe ) ('000 toe/m ) (Zl/m3)
1971      437.4          2720.0       22.9          8.2    20047       20078        45.90      0.14
1972      428.3          2768.9       23.2         24.9    11495       11543        26.95      0.24
1973      360.2          2569.5    1795.9         256.4     9477       11529        32.01      0.22
1974      331.8          2596.2      647.9         44.0     6340        7032        21.19      0.37
1975      321.4          2897.6      144.3         30.7    15059      1234         47.40      0.19
1976      326.8          2967.5      49.5           0.0    14735       14785        45.24      0.20
1977      317.0          3090.5      487.2         20.8     11982      12490        39.40      0.25
1978      306.4          2912.4       14.7          8.4    15221       15244        49.75      0.19
1979      286.6          2849.9      384.2         50.0    13426       13860        48.36      0.21
1980      240.8          3297.9      47.7          24.3     8145        8217        34.12      0.40
1981      265.0          3593.7      215.3         52.1     2574        2841        10.72      1.26
1982      299.7          9266.0       46.9         19.4     3906        3972        13.25      2.33
1983      275.7         10757.0      119.3         30.5     1288        1438         5.21      7.48
1984      285.4         13748.2      219.3         44.2     9393        9656        33.83      1.42
1985      291.4         16940.4      41.1          10.9     8353        8405        28.84      2.02
1986      283.4         21248.5       50.0          0.0     7300        7350        25.94      2.89
1987      272.4         24039.6     419.0          74.0     6600        7093        26.04      3.39
1988      299.7         32600.0      182.0         23.0     9600        9805        32.72      3.32
1989      283.0         33100.0      340.0                  9800       10140        35.84      3.26
1990      295.0         34000.0      400.0                  9000        9400        31.86      3.62
1991      300.0         35700.0      500.0                  8000        8500        28.33      4.20
1992      320.0         36900.0      500.0                  8000        8500        26.56      4.34
1993      340.0         39200.0      600.0                  8500        9100        26.76      4.31
1994      350.0         41500.0      700.0                  8500        9200        26.29      4.51
1995      370.0         42600.0      700.0                  9000        9700        26.22      4.39
Notes: (1) Exploration expenditures prior to 1988 are in current Zloty, thereafte-r in constant (1988) Zlotys.
(2) The average calorific value of 1.0 bm3 of gas is assumed to be equal to that of 1.0 thousand tons of oil.



- 69 -
Annex 3-3
Table 2
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Oil and Gas Reserves
(January 1, 1989)
D  I S  C  0  V  E  R  E  D                  REMAINING          REMAINING
Remaiiung Reserves   POTENTLAL Dl  POTENTIAL D2
In   Recoverable    Cumulative   in                   in                In
Place   %   Volume Production  Place  Recoverable  Place Recoverable Place Recoverable
OIL (Mt)
Lowlands      11.2   33%      3.7         2.7   8.5           1.0  51.0         17.0  109.5        36.5
Carpathen     10.7   36%      3.8         3.4   7.3           0.4   9.0          3.0   9.0          3.0
Foredeep
Carpathen     27.6   45%    12.4         11.6  16.0           0.8  39.0         13.0  103.5        34.5
Flysch
Total         49.5           20.0        17.8  31.8           2.2  99.0         33.0  222.0        74.0
GAS (bm3)
Lowlands     183.2   76%   139.2         48.0  135.2         91.2  248.8       211.5  325.1       276.4
Carpathen    197.6   72%o  141.9        72.1  125.5          69.8  112.1        95.3  42.7         36.3
Foredeep
Carpathen     13.9   90%    12.5         10.8   3.1           1.7  13.3         11.3  40.5         34.5
Flysch
Total        394.6          293.6       130.9  263.7        162.7  374.3       318.1  408.4       347.1
Categories:  Remaining Reserves is total of:
-Remaining reserves In developAd fields.
-Undeveloped Identified reserves.
Remaining Potential consists of:
- Di: Potential reserves in formations known to be oidgas bearing.
- D2: Potential reserves in formations possibly oil/gas bearing.
Notes:      Remaining reserves are updated regularly by PGNG on the basis of drilling and testing results.
Remaining potential reserves are updated every five years by PGNG In cooperation with
the Geological Institute of the Ministry of Natural Resources.



- 70 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Contractual Framework for Private Investment
1.    Poland has  serious  energy  shortages  that  are  expected  to worsen.
Significant new investments will be required to address this situation.   A
general shortage of investment funds has increased the importance of attracting
local and especially foreign private investors to the task of rehabilitating
Poland's energy sector.
2.    One of the objectives of the Energy Resource Development Project is to
promote private investment in oil and gas in Poland.  There are a number of
prerequisites to success. Obviously, geology is fundamental. While Poland is
gas rather than oil prone, there are a number of areas that are to date
underexplored and that should be of interest to investors. Investors may also
be prepared to participate in the enhanced exploitation of known oil and gas
fields. On the commercial side, an understanding of the potential market for
new production will be important, as will be an appropriate pricing system and
a viable state partner where joint ventures are contemplated. These commercial
considerations will be addressed in companion studies to the Energy Resource
Development Project.1/ Finally, an acceptable legal and contractual framework
will be essential to new private investment.
3.    The  Bank will  assist  Poland  in the preparation  of  an  appropriate
contractual framework for private investment in the petroleum sector.   This
framework should encompass:
a)    a draft petroleum law;
b)    a model contract between the State and investors for exploration
and production operations;
c)    a draft operating agreement governing joint venture relationships
between the State and private investors;
d)    draft fiscal provisions for petroleum operations; and
e)    special provisions for gas exploration and development and a draft
gas sales agreement.
4.    ESMAP assistance will fund input from qualified experts in petroleum
contractual,  legal and fiscal matters.   An open exchange of  ideas with
potentially  interested investors will also be encouraged.   The resulting
contractual framework should be reasonably complete to provide a basis for
accelerated negotiation with interested companies.  At the same time, the
1/ The studies are:  Gas Development Plan, Gas Pricing Study, and the Oil
and Gas Sector Restructuring Study. These will be funded through the Energy
Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP).



- 71 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 3
framework should be flexible, to provide room where appropriate to accommodate
the special concerns of different companies during the process of negotiations.
5.    Prior to the commencement of negotiations, the government and its advisors
should pay particular attention to key negotiable provisions such as: (a) the
size and configuration of the contract area; (b) the term of the agreement; (c)
the minimum work committed by the foreign company contractor, and (d) provisions
for the evaluation of discoveries in the case of pure exploration contracts.
6.    The terms and conditions of PGNG's  participation in any contract w4ll
have to be very carefully considered, especially those relating to:  (a) the
timing of PGNG's financial participation in operations; (b) the reimbursement
of the foreign contractor for any expenditures made on PGNG's behalf; and (c)
voting procedures and the related control over operations.
7.    Essential elements in determining the attractiveness of Poland to private
investors will be the tax regime (or more generally the system of host government
"take") and, for foreign investors, provisions relating to foreign exchange and
profit repatriation.   Companies expect a rate of return commensurate with the
perceived risks, technical and other, of investing in Poland, given their other
alternatives.    Some  economic  modelling  of  hypothetical  exploration  and
development projects will help the Polish authorities in agreeing on a suitable
fiscal system. Since any likely production of liquids or gas would be destined
for the internal Polish market, commitments on local market pricing and some
means of assuring the foreign investor a profit in foreign exchange will have
to be provided.
8.    Finally,  the terms relating to foreign contractors of existing PGNG
services and facilities will have to be carefully discussed and agreed before
new contracts are signed. Typically, foreign contractors will be very wary of
any contractual or legal requirements to show a non-competitive preference for
the use of local goods and services.
9.    To date Poland has had very limited experience in joint ventures with
investors in the petroleum sector or with promoting new investment. Poland's
only joint venture in petroleum has been Petrobaltic, in which it participates
with East Germany and the Soviet Union in exploration offshore the Baltic Coast.
Exploration results have not been encouraging and this venture is in the process
of being dismantled. In other areas, however, new foreign investment interest
seems to be developing. Amoco, a major U.S. based international oil company,
signed a one year non-exclusive study agreement with PGNG in July 1989 covering
data related to Poland's central basin. During the study year negotiations with
Amoco on the terms of a follow-up exploration/ production agreement may be
started.    Other  companies  showing a preliminary  interest  include  Shell,
Occidental, Hunt, Elf, Anadarko and Chevron. Planned Bank assistance to Poland
in the contractual area will extend to the financing of expert help in the
negotiation of agreements with private companies.



- 72 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 3
10.   Possible agreements with investcrs may cover not only exploration but also
enhanced recovery and production from known reservoirs such as is contemplated
under the Energy Resource Development loan. It should be noted that should a
service contract be signed with a foreign company for the infill drilling,
rehabilitation or appraisal of fields that are currently included in the Bank
project, procurement of equipment from loan funds for thes- fields will be
stopped. The remaining funds for these fields can then, in consultation with
the Bank, be reallocated. Since there is no exploration component included in
the project, exploration contracts with foreign companies will not affect the
loan.



- 73 -
Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gas Transmission and Distribution System
1.    The first gas plant in Poland was put irto operation in Warsaw in 1859.
Although it has been dismantled and its old cast-iron network converted to
natural gas, many gasworks of this type are still operational in the country.
A high methane network (8,200 kcal/m3) came into operation in 1937 by
construction of the first high pressure transmission pipeline in the Southeast
of the country. This system has grown to an elaborate network which transmits
and distributes domestically produced natural gas as well as imported gas from
the USSR. In the 1950's a coke oven gas system was developed; coke oven gas is
now being produced and distributed in three areas in the South -- Gornyslask,
Opole and Walbrzych.   In the 1970's, a third separate network was added for
transmission and distribution of a medium heating (5,700 kcal/m3) value gas which
is produced in the country. About half of this gas, which contains between 18-
65% inert gases (principally nitrogen), is cryogenically processed in o-:der to
reduce its nitrogen content to 6% for injection into the high methane system or
for blending with the remaining high nitrogen gas in order to reduce its nitrogen
content to 30% for direct use by consumers.
2.    As is apparent from the above, the structure of Poland's gas network is
complex and consists of:
(a)   8,571 km of high pressure transmission pipeline for supply of high
methane natural gas with a net heating value of 8,200 KCal/m3. This
gas constitutes, on an energy equivalent basis, about 70% of total
gas being used in Poland.
(b)   2,665 km of high pressure transmission line for supply of high
nitrogen gas with a net heating value of 5,700 KCal/m3. The share
of this gas is about 20%.
(c)   2,350 km of high pressure transmission line for supply of coke oven
gas with a net heating value of 4,000 KCal/m3, with a share of about
7% in total gas supply.
3.    Each of the above separate  systems supplies  gas directly  to large
industries or to its own city distribution networks.  In addition, there are
about 100 isolated small networks for distribution of manufactured gas or LPG
to small townships. The total length of the above transmission and distribution
networks is about 40,000 km, serving 5.7 million residential, commercial and
industrial consumers. In the manufactured gas networks, a propane-air mixture
is being used for peak shaving. Production of manufactured gas from coal is
costly and its distribution is more expensive than natural gas because of the
lower e-ergy content per volume unit. For this reason, almost all manufactured
gas plaats in the world have been or are scheduled to be dismantled and their
networks converted to natural gas.



- 74 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 2
4.    PGNG has used two types of distribution network configuration.  In the
old networks, which are usually converted from manufactured gas to natural gas,
the 64-bar pressure of the transmission system is stepped down to 4-bar and is
further stepped down to 500 mm of water gauge. The residential and commercial
consumers are directly connected to the latter low pressure networks. In the
new networks, the transmission pressure is reduced to 4-bar and consumers are
directly connected to this 4-bar grid. This is a cost-effective configuration
which is in lire with industry practicer in many countries in the world.
5.    Polyethylene pipes are being used only to a limited extent, since the raw
material for the only polyethylene pipe manufacturer in the country is not
produced locally.   Polyethylene pipes are cost effective for distribution
networks and are being used in many countries; their broader application in
Poland will be assessed through the Gas Development Plan.



- 75 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - ENERGY RESOUkCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gas Balances, 1988 - 2000
1.    In 1988, the total gas supply amounted to 12,367 million m3, of which 44%
was produced or manufactured domestically, and the baiance imported from the
USSR. The share of indigenous natural gas production was 4,282 million m3 (35%
of total supply),of which about 60% was produced in high-nitrogen gas fields with
a nitrogen content varying from 18% to 65% and the balance in the high-methane
gas fields with a heating value compatible to the high methane gas equivalent.
Table 1 below shows the 1988 gas balance, which consists of the supply of various
types of gases and their consumption in different sectors. All gases are
converted to the high methane gas equivalent of 8,200 kcal/m3 net heating value.
TABLE I
Polnd  188 asBalance
A. Gas SUpIly
L DomestkcSources                 S.8   44
iGas Fields                  4,222    35
-Coke Oven Plants & Gas Works  9251    7
-Coal Mines                   2313     2
-Other, IncL Storae            .49.8   0
2. Impoils                      6,97&6    56
B.Demand                         I&=      I
L Industry                      7.L      64
.Energy                      59       42
*Feedstock                   2,7515    22
2. Households                   3,502.8   28
3. Conmnercial                   3413     3
4. Losses                        484.8    4                            :
S Own Use of PGNG                 96.8    1
Low Growth Scnarlo
2.    Under the low demand growth scenario a modest growth of 5.1% is assumed
for the household sector (cooking only), but little or no growth for space
heating or for other sectors. Average annual growth would be 2.1%. Demand for
gas, particularly in the household sector, is high; there are currently some
600,000 households on the waiting list. Even based on this constrained demand,
it is projected that shortages would appear from 1991 onward. These shortages
would reach a critical level by the year 2000 if imports from USSR are reduced
to half of the existing level as expected. The gas supply and demand forecast
'amder the low scenario is shown in Table 2 below.



- 76 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 3
TABLE 2
Poland: 1990_2000 Gas Balance (L7w Growth ScenarIiQ (in billion ins)
199.0    199                       i         1995    2000
A. Gas Suplv                                   12.93             a Q               13A7    t._70      8.02
1. Domestic Sources                             5.20     5.27     5.70     6.13     6.02     5.25     4.76
Gas Fields                                   4.10     4.17     4.60     S.03     4.92      5.2     5.76
.w/o Ban'c Project                           4.10     4.00     3.30     3.20     3.00     2.90     2.10
-incremental from Bank project /              .       0.17     L30      1.83     L92      236      1.66
Coal Mine Gas                                0.20     0.20     0.20     0.20     0.20     0.20     0.20
Coke Oven Plants and Gas Works                0.90     0.90    0.90     e.90     0.90     0.90      0.80
2. Imports                                      7.73     7.73     7.73     7.5S     7A5      7A5      3.26
B. Gas Demand                                  193    13.23        a      13.86    14.18    1.4_8   1591
1. Industry                                     7.80     7.80     7.80     7.80     7.80     7.80     7.80
-Energy                                      5.00     S.00     5.00      500     5.00     5.00     5.00
-Feedstock                                   2.80     2.80     2.80     2.80     2.80     2.80     2.80
2. Own Use by PGNG                              0.12     0.12     0.13     0.13     0.14     0.14     0.16
3. Households                                   4.11     4A0      4.69     4.97     5.52     S52      7.08
.Heating                                      1.99    2.04     2.08     20-9    2110      2.20     2.70
-Cooking                                     2.12     2.36     2.61     2.88     3A2      332      438
4. Commercial                                   0.38     039      OA0      OA2      OA4      OA6      0.55
5. Losses                                       0.52     0.52     0.53     0.54     0.28     0.29     0.32
C. Gas Deficit                                  0.00      .0       32    ;QQ                j15 ;     7.2_
1/ Cumulative 1991-2000: 17.5 billion m3
Hieh Growth Scenario
3.      The  gas  utili-.    -i potential  under  a  high  growth  scenario  is  based  on
detailed analysis by PGNG. The principal assumptions are as follows:
(a)   average demand growth of about 10% per annum between 1990 and 2000.
By the year 2000 the share of gas in total energy consumption would
have increased from 7.6% (1989) to about 20%;
(b)     a   sharp   increase   in  the   supply  of   gas   to  households   and   the
commercial sector in order to meet demand and to substitute gas for
low efficiency coal-based individual household space heating units
and commercial boilers, which are also major sources of air
pollution. Average growth in these two sectors is projected at 14%
and 8.3% per annum respectively.   The number of gas consuming
households is expected to increase from the present 5.7 million to
about 9 million;
(c)     gas would be  introduced  to the power  sector  for  the  first  time  from
1994 onward with a fast average growth of about 70% per annum to the
year 2000; and



- 77 -
Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 3
(d)   the industrial sector would not have a significant increase in gas
consumption, since coal-based industrial consumers are capable of
enhancing their thermal efficiency and reduce pollutant emissions.
4.          The  criteria  for  the high  growth  scenario  seem  acceptable,
particularly with respect to the household space heating market. The existing
coal-based space heating units have a very low thermal efficiency, ranging from
about 20% (individual coal furnace) to 55% (central boilers) and are a major
source of air pollution.
5.          Under the high growth scenario as shown in Table 3 below, gas demand
would increase from about 13 billion m3 in 1989 to 35 billion m3 by the year
2000.  However, even this is a supply constrained scenario due to an assumed
limit on imports of gas. It should be noted that the gas utilization potential
could be even higher, since gradual replacement of district heating networks
might provide another potential market for gas.  District heating, which was
initially developed to recover part of the thermodynamic losses of power plants,
has now expanded to include many other systems b.sed on coal-fired boilers.  The
distribution pipes of these systems are suffering from severe corrosion and
resultant energy losses through leakage and evaporation. This, combined with
the significant losses within the consumers premises (caused by lack of valves),
has resulted in a very low overall thermal efficiency of the systems which could,
be well under 50%.
TABLE 3
Polan& 1990 -2000 Gas Balance (High Crowth Scenario) (in billion ml)
am  An  LS  am  am   a   a
GAS DEMAND                   R                       17.16  j, 12                   -
L  Industry                  8.50   .80  9.07   9.34  9.61  9.88  10.74
a. Interruptible Consumers  8.05   828  8A.   8.68  8.8   9.05  9.74
-Chemical                 4.50  4.60  4.70  4.80  4.90  5O.0  5.50
-Metallurgical            3.30  340   3A7   3.54  3.60  3.60  3.70
-Others (glass, cement,etc.)  025  0.28  0.31  0.34  0.38  OA5  0.54
b. Small Industries         0A5   0.52  0.59  0.66  0.73  0.83  1.00
2. Household and Commercial  4.31  4.55  4.87   26   561  6.00  11.47
a. Cooking & Water Heating  1.81  I3   1.92  1.98   ?04  2.10  2.82
-Towns                    60   L63  1.66  1.69   L72   175  2.26
-Countryside             0.21  0.23  0.26  0.29  0.32  035  0.56
b. Space Heating            11  2.29  344   2A6  3.14  3AS   7.75
.Towns                    L65   L73   L90  2.14  2.34  2.57  6.00
-Countryside              OA6   0.56  (.64  0.72  0.80  0.88  1.75
c. Commercial               0.39  OA   OA1   0A2  0.43  0A5  0.90
3. Power Plants              0.00  0.00   0.00  0.10  1.20  2.10  7.90
4. Other Consumers           0.S   0.06  0.07  0.08  0.09  0.15  3.20
5. Lsses                     0.52  05   0.57   0.60  0.67  0.74  1.20



- 78 -
Annex 4-1
oww
S= ,Irl,  Company, W               Cmp nn, Kako
s:t~~Ge
;   |    Suy, _W_   ConWny Wnaawr                   Cmpy, Torun   F
|: Gas Disirbtogn _
g                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Expbration/Drilling  _ -
sEjD:bu                            as          mCompany. Jaslo We=
a as DistrbuUon                                                              I  QI
!                                       ExN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on#fling       
| Subsidary. 2zO e P ~~Comnpany. Krahk w
ExpIorationfDrfllimg 
Gas DlstWbu~on   _=Company, Wokonin  _
Sy.ck,Zabrta                                                           
I                    S
I Gas DrbXuti  L                                I Drtillng L
Subsry. Lorany. Pila r
~~~~~~~I                                                                   a
I                          0
Gas    D       |  b                                                                     |     
SuWda. y,watk  _                                      Productbon                         I
I _ MaGas _ ~~~~~~~~~C4mpany. Sanok r-;                                                               m
IGas Dstbudo                                                                          1\                          m
Company, Krosno
Prodction            Q
. Gas Dis~l                         |alonaGora                                         D20
.SLblay,Szczednn                                                                                                Z 1/ 
r   ,  I  I   GasPipetine  0,       I                    I                     I
0C)
I Gas Debubon  I  I                             I Company. Doao    1                                                               1Y
ISubsGr.Koszalin I) I
By~s Ic      I~ I   o ,Pma     
I Gas DUr l_ *  I Gas Diputin
Sul*idary. Kalis  rl|c0=an.Worinr = 1- 
Ga Dyribufion   PJ                               I Pun        FaOcnifty L   Ii IIh   
ICompany, Krosno c           LIIg I13 
Gas DUIbon
StLbslry. Gd _ia         e       Gdansk
Ga DWB          |||GsEStn  L                                                I&II    
l                    I  O~~~~6il Eqnt &Vole
rW.'- K                                          IFrak rmn 
IGasDWA          1                                    R B 
Sdiay, Tanmow                                          Ib 



- 79 -
Annex 5-1
Page 1 of 7
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Unsltream ProEam
1.    The upstream program will yield incremental production of about 30 billion
m3 of high methane gas equivalent during 1991-2010, of which about 10 billion
me from the Southeastern fields and 20 billion m3 from the Northwestern fields.
In addition, about 0.37 million tons of condensate is expected to be produced
from the Northwestern fields  during the  same period.    Total  incremental
production represents 36 Ktce on an energy equivalency conversion basis or more
than 76 Mtce on an energy efficiency conversion basis.   The wells to be
rehabilitated are expected to at least double their production rate. Production
increases from reservoir stimulation and well rehabilitation are difficult to
predict  until  pre-operational  tests  have  been  done.    Similar  reservoir
stimulation elsewhere increased production by factors ranging from 3 to 10 times.
2.    Description.  The upstream program consists of the following components:
(a)   Gas  Field Development and Rehabilitation.   Application of gas
recovery improvement schemes to increase the recovery of existing
gas reserves and the deliverability of existing fields through: (i)
drilling of about 250 infill development wells (160 in the
Southeastern and 90 in the Northeastern fields); (ii) rehabi]'cation
(work-over) of about 1,000 wells (450 in the Southeasterr. and 550
in the Northeastern fields); and (iii) compression of fields low
pressure gas to meet trunkline pressure in 4 Northwestern fields.
The project will finance imported well materials such as tubular
goods (casing and tubing); drilling bits; API class cement and
additives; drilling, completion and stimulation chemicals; drilling
and production wellheads; down hole completion equipment; surface
wellhead gas production facilities; and drilling and work-over
equipment, well testing and reservoir stimulation equipment, and
field laboratories for reservoir monitoring;
(b)   Gas Field Evaluation.  Delineation and evaluation of some of the most
prospective gas fields discovered in recent years through:   (i)
drilling and testing of about 40 appraisal wells (10 in the
Southeastern and 30 in the Northwestern fields); and (ii) stimulation
long-term production testing of about 35 existing discovery and
appraisal wells (20 in the Southeastern and 15 in the Northwestern
fields). This project component will involve procurement of similar
materials and equipment as for the inf ill drilling, except that some
of it will be hydrogen sulphide resistant; and
(c)   GeoyJsi-cs.   Survey of about 24,000 line km of high resolution
seismic work including data processing and interpretation in selected
gas fields proposed for further development. About three quarters



- 80 -
Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 7
of the seismic will be detailed and semi-detailed coverage to
optimize future infill development drilling in some of the largest
producing fields.   The remainder will consist of reconnaissance
coverage to assist in locating the appraisal wells and in delineating
the extent of gas fields discovered in recent years. In addition,
about 20,000 line km of existing seismic data will be re-processed
and  re-interpreted  using modern  techniques.    The  geophysical
cor.ponent will involve procurement of high multiplicity recording
in',truments, high performance vibroseis equipment (vibrating trucks)
with corresponding hardware such as high quality geophones and
software, modern logging tocis, high multiplicity recording
instruments for the field surveys and corresponding computer hardware
and software to evaluate accurately recent discoveries.
3.    Infill Development Drilling.   The infill development drilling program
would enable PGNG to slow down the current decline in gas production from
existing fields.   It consists of drilling additional production wells  in
produc-;-  fields using a reduced spacing pattern to obtain better gas drainage
between wells. To ensure higher productivity, the location of the wells will
be determined on the basis of field reservoir performance, and will be completed
utilizing a new concept that requires modern equipment, which is not available
in Poland. Sixteen fields have been selected for infill development drilling.
About 160 wells will be drilled in nine southeastern fields (Prezemsysl, Rzeszow,
Mackowice, Zolynia, Mirocin, Lubachow, Zalesia, Kielanovka, and Pilzno), which
contain about 50 billion m3 of recoverable high methane gas. Similarly, about
90 wells will be drilled in seven northwestern fields (Paproc, Radlin, Gora,
Zuchlow, Ujazd, Kleka and Tarchaly), which contain about 34 billion ma3 of
recoverable low methane gas. Incremental production from the inf ill development
drilling will be more than 7 billion m3 from 1990-2010. Drilling would begin in
1991 and take about 4 years.
4.    Field Rehabilitation.   The rehabilita.ion program consists mainly of
repairing existing gas wells (work-over) that have been shut down or are
producing below their normal production capacity because of down hole mechanical
problems.  At present, PGNG rehabilitates about wells per year.  There is a
backlog of more than 500 wells, most of them requiring complex repairs.  The
resulting production shortfall is estimated at a minimum of 400-500 million m3
per year; this backlog would increase in the future since PGNG's work-over
equipment is old, worn out and not being replaced.  To avoid this, PGNG has
formulated a comprehensive well rehabilitation program consisting of about 1,000
wells to be rehabilitated over the 5 year project period, with about 450 wells
in Southeastern and 550 wells in Northwestern fields.   It is difficult to
anticipate the level of production from rehabilitated wells, since the extent
of down hole problems will become known only once operations have started.
However, based on field experience and production history of the wells, the
expected minimum incremental production from the work-over program will be about
8 to 10 billion m3 during 1990-2010. The rehabilitation program would begin in
1990 and take about 5 years. The wells planned to be rehabilitated under the
project are located in more than 40 producing gas fields.



- 81 -
Page 3 of 7
5.    Most of the wells that have been shut down are the result of substandard
down hole completion equipment and materials, often combined with inappropriate
practices such as packerless completion, inadequate perforations, ineffective
cement jobs and lack sand control. In addition to hampering long-term production
flow, this constitutes a risk for the wellheads, which are then continuously
under pressure. This also could lead to an environmental risk, particularly for
sour gas fields where corrosive gases (H2S and C02) have detrimental effects on
ordinary equipment and materials, particularly elastomers and metal goods.
Downhole sand incursion is another problem encountered in several Southeastern
fields where production had to be reduced in order to limit the extent of sand
clogging.   This problem,  often associated with younger tertiary sediments
characterized by unconsolidated sand-such as in the Miocene (the main producing
geological formation in the Southeastern fields), requires elaborate down hole
completion equipment not available in Poland. In other cases, water encroachment
is also a serious problem which can only be tackled with adequate material and
equipment.
6.    Gas Compression.  The gas compression program will enable PGNG to produce
from 4 gas fields (Zuchow, Bogdaj-Uciechow, Borzecin and Tarchaly).   These
fields, with about 28.5 billion mi3 of recoverable reserves, cannot produce
unless their wellhead pressure is brought up to the gas trunkline service
pressure by compression. The program will require about 10 compressors of 800-
1000 HP each, five of which should be installed in 1990-91 and the remainder
during 1992-94.   Total gas to be delivered to the trunkline through the
compression program will be about 10.45 billion m3 during 1990-2010.
7.    Evaluation of New Gas Fields.   This program consists  of drilling
delineation and appraisal wells to evaluate the potential of some recently
discovered gas fields that are highly promising but that could not be evaluated
with the available equipment because of high pressure often combined with high
corrosive gas content. The program would also establish each field's long term
deliverability and the production that is optimal for its exploitation. Without
proper evaluation of these fields, no technically sound field development program
can be designed. At present, some fields located near the gas trunkline system
are being produced using only the discovery wells. Such a practice could cause
production problems that ultimately lead to lower total gas recovery.   The
proposed program will evaluate ten fields, three of which are in the Southeast
(Lachowice, Ciecierzyn and Jodlowka) and the others in the Northwest (Babimost,
Zbaszyn, Kargowa, Zakowo, Cychry, Chartow and Miedzyzdroj). About 40 appraisal
wells will be drilled and tested and another 35 wells, already drilled, will be
stimulated and retested. These fields are expected to substantially increase
Poland's gas supply.   Current recoverable reserves from areas around the
discovery wells are estimated to be about 30 to 40 billion m3.  The existing
discovery and appraisal wells will be completed as producers. They are expected
to contribute about 6 to 10 billion m3 of gas and 0.40 to 0.60 million tons of
condensate during 1990-2010. Drilling operations would begin in 1991 and take
about 4 years.
8.    Evalua%on of Gas Reserves.    PGNG's  latest  exploration  results  are
encouraging. The 1988 addition of 9.8 billion m3 to the gas reserves is a
positive indication for the remaining potential. Recent oil discoveries indicate



- 82 -
Annex 5-1
Page 4 of 7
that also in this respect there is potential.  In order for PGNG to evaluate
accurately its discoveries and enhance the geophysical data of existing fields,
about 24,000 line km of high resolution seismic will be carried out within the
producing areas.   High multiplicity recording instruments for the surveys and
corresponding computer hardware and software to permit the processing of the
data will be acquired under the project. Field recording would be enhanced by
use of heavier vibrating trucks (vibroseis equipment) and high quality geophones.
New logging tools will improve the analysis of the reservoirs and the accuracy
of the well completion techniques. The geological laboratory would be equipped
with new instruments for rock analysis.  The seismic instruments will permit
recording of three-dimensional information, which has become v-idely used in the
industry, before installation of production facilities on a new field.  The
proposed enhancement of PGNG's computer facilities would enable it to process
this data.
Downstream Progam
9.    The downstream project component would consist of: (i) establishment of
a modern computerized control system; (ii) expansion of transmission and
compression infrastructure; (iii) development of underground storage facilities;
(iv) gas treatment and desulfurization facilities; and (v) consultancy services
and training.
10.   Establishment of a computerized suDervisory control and data acguisition
(SCADA) svstem.   This system would continuously receive data from all major
supply sources, including gas imports and underground storage, as well as from
compressor stations, city gate stations and major industrial consumers. About
100 industrial consumers would be equipped with modern measurement and data
transmission devices. The SCADA would analyze the data and determine the optimum
operational mode for the national gas transmission and distribution system. The
benefits expected from SCADA would include the reduction of: (i) gas losses to
by an estimate at 260 million m3 per year; (ii) industrial load shedding by
approximately 50 million m3 per year; and (iii) compressor station's power
consumption, by about 100 million kwh per year.
11.   Expansion of transmission and comDression infrastructure.  This component
would increase system capacity to receive the additional gas to be produced and
expand the transmission system to new premium markets. Benefits include: (i)
dismantling of 10 costly coal gasworks and conversion of their networks, using
approximately 100,000 consumers, from manufactured gas to natural gas; (ii)
conversion of coke oven networks with about 800,000 consumers to natural gas,
which is a step towards rationalizing the country's gas system; (iii) increasing
gas use for household space heating; and (iv) reduction of industrial load
shedding.
12.   The component would consist of: (i) installation of a new compressor
sta:ion in Jaroslaw with 3x8000 kW compressors to replace the existing 20-year
old station; (ii) installation of 2x150Q kW additional units in the Kotowo
compressor station; (iii) expans'on of the Southern gas transmission system
through construction of 210 km of 700 mm diameter pipeline and 82 km of 500 mm
diameter pipeline; (iv) construction of 21 km (400 mm); 18km (350 mm); 13km



- 83 -
Annex 5-1
Page 5 of 7
(500mm); and 90 km (300 mm) diameter pipelines in the South-Western transmission
system; (v) expansion of the North-Eastern transmission system by construction
of 45 km (500 mm); and 67 km (250 mm) pipelines; and (vi) construction of 78 km
(350 mm) and 232 km (250 mm) diameter pipelines in the North-Western part of the
country.
13.   DeveloRment of Underground Storage.   Gas transmission and distribution
in Poland is characterized by seasonal, daily and hourly load fluctuations.
For example, in 1988, the maximum daily consumption in the high methane system
was about 35 million m3 per day, compared to a minimum daily consumption of 20
million O3. In order to deal with seasonal peak demand, PGNG is using four
underground storage facilities in depleted fields with a total capacity of 478
million m3. Since the storage and delivery capacities are not sufficient PGNG
is also shedding some industrial load during the peak season.   For example,
industrial load shedding in 1985 and 1987, with cold winters, was 100 million
m3 and 60 million m3, respectively.
14.   The project would finance development of an underground gas storage
capacity in the Mogilno salt mine (270 km west of Warsaw) in order to enhance
the security of supply and to reduce industrial load shedding. Only the first
phase of this program would be implemented under the proposed project.   It
consists of:  (i) design and constructior supervision:  (ii) completion of 2
caverns with 300,000 e3 capacity each; and (iii) installation of surface
facilities including 4 x 3000 kW plus 1 x 1000 kW compressor units and 80 km of
700 mm diameter pipeline connecting the canvas to the transmission system. The
compressors and pipeline would provide sufficient capacity to serve all three
phases of the project, which would consist of the development of 6 caverns with
1.8 million m3 capacity.
GasTreatment
15.   Natural gas from the well must be treated to meet rigid specifications
before it is delivered to the pipeline. An important part of this treatment is
the removal of sulfur from the gas.   This is necessary for safety reasons
because hydrogen sulfide is lethal even in very small concentrations. A second
reason is to prevent sulfur dioxide emissions when the gas containing sulfur
compounds is burned. There are three basic processing steps in recovering the
sulphur contained in natural gas: (i) recovery of acid gases (CO2 and H2S) to
achieve pipeline quality gas; (ii) recovery of H2S from the acid gas mixtures;
and (iii) conversion of H2S to sulphur. The optimum choice of the overall scheme
depends greatly on the natural gas composition (i.e., C02/H2S split and total
acid gas content), the flow rate and to some extent the location.   In many
countries gas is only treated to achieve pipeline quality standards and the
removed acid gases are being flared. Flaring of H2S in the air produces sulphur
dioxide (SO2) which is a harmful pollutant. For that reason, the gas treatment
component of the project includes an additional process step, converting
hydrogen sulphide to elementary sulphur.
16.   PGNG designed gas desulfurization systems both for the Ciecierzyn and the
Babimost-Zbaszyn and Kargowa (BZK) gas fields based on two gas desulfurization
processes which it developed over the last few years: the IGNiG Iron Chelate



- 84 -
Annex 5-1
Page 6 of 7
process and the Wackenroder process. However, these processes are too new to
have a demonstrated history of reliable operation.  They are, therefore, too
risky to be installed at this time. The capital cost saved by utilizing the
IGniG processes could be dissipated quickly by excessive plant down-time. In
addition, the highly toxic nature of hydrogen sulfide makes it imperative that
any process used have an excellent safety record.
17.   Under the project, funds are allocatfed for: (i) sulfur retail-gas treating
plants us.'ng processes that have a proven history of reliability, safety ar,d
economy  of operation;  and  (ii)  consultants  to assist  in the design and
performance evaluation of PGNG's iron chelate pilot plant (currently under
construction) and its Wackenroder demonstration plant (main equipment items have
been procured). If the pilot plants can demonstrate their economy, safety and
reliability during a one year test period, they could be considered up to the
scheduled time for thie process screening and selection procedure. However, even
if the test results should come too late for use in the construction of the
proposed plants under this proiect,  the IGNiG processes show considerable
promise for future use. Moreover, a superior process could be licensed abroad.
18.   BZK Plant.  The hydrogen sulfide removal section of this plant consists
of a DEA acid gas scrubbing section followed by a Claus process sulfur recovery
plant and a PGNG-Wackenroder process tail-gas treating unit.   DEA acid gas
scrubbing and Claus sulfur recovery are proven, reliable processes. However,
the detailed design and engineering of these plants entails a great deal of
know-how  acquired by  specialized companies  over  30-40  -'ears.   The  PGNG
Wackenroder process does not have a record of demonstrated reliability on a
commercial scale.  The cost of the tail gas unit is, therefore, based on an                   B
equivalent but proven tail-gas treating process.  Provision should be made to
incinerate the tail gas if the hydrogen sulfide in this gas exceeds 20 mg/nm3.
19. Ciecierzyn Plant. The comments made for BZK also apply here. In additior.,
the IGNiG Iron Chelate Process does not yet have a record of demonstrated
reliability on a commercial scale, especially at high pressure in the production
gas stream.   Provision should be made for start-up, shutdown and emergency
operation if the gas does not meet specifications or if the concentration of
sulfur compounds in the tail-gas exceeds safe limits. The cost estimate of the
gas treating and sulfur recovery units is based on DEA scrubbing for hydrogen
sulfide and carbon dioxide removal followed by the ARI Locat process for sulfur
recovery and tail gas treating (used solelv for cost estimate purposes).
20.   In addition to using only proven processes, designed and engineered by                  I
persons having adequate relevant experience, each major component used in these               -
plants should have a record of reliability and satisfactory operation in
identical service. To speed up the process screening and selection procedure,
cost   estimates   should   be   obtained   from   a   few   selected   process               _
licensors/engineering companies. Before this can be done, PGNG has to firm up
the process specifications for the respective plants.  The cost estimates for                 U
the Ciecierzyn and BZK sulfur removal, recovery and tail-gas units are very
approximate considering the uncertainties involved, but adequate for costing
purposes.



- 85 -
Annex 5-1
Page 7 of 7
21.   Based on current world prices, potential income from the BZK field is
about $50,000 per day and from Ciecierzyn $25,000 per day.  Everything else
being equal, this should affect their priority ranking. Once the gas treatment
process design scheme has been selected, it should take no more than two years
to design, engineer, procure and construct the gas plant section of this
project. The cash flows should be adjusted to reflect this. Skid-mounted,
transportable plants should be considered for both installations. This will
increase the foreign cost component, but will decrease the time becween purchase
and plant commissioning; decrease the time for plant start-up and shakedown;
and provide flexibility regarding plant location or re-location.
Technical Assistance
22.   Under the project consultancy services and training will be provided
through courses and seminars to meet needs in seismic data acquisition and
processing, deep drilling, well completion, production of sour gas, gas
production-related  pollution   control   methodologies,   SCADA,   technology
development, underground storage, gas treatment and desulfurization, contract
negotiations and exploration promotion, and for various studies.   Training
provisions will also be included in contracts where appropriate: supply and
service companies involved in the project are expected to provide short-term
seminars to train field workers to operate the equipment they provide.
23.   In addition to the above, a formal training program will be included under
the project.   About 25 manmonths of external technical assistance would be
provided by specialized firms.  These training consultants will assist PGNG to
develop and implement a comprehensive training program covering all facets of
the oil and gas industry and to train the in-house instructors. The objectives
of the program are to: (a) develop a flexible training program that can be
redefined during project implementation in order to respond to specific needs;
(b) determine specifications for training aids to be provided under the project
(drilling simulators, laboratory equipment, various models of equipment and
manuals for the instructors as well as for the trainees); and (c) train a
sufficient number of instructors for the regional operating enterprises in gas
field developmert, production, exploration, distribution, reservoir engineering
and management.   Training assistance would consist of classroom instruction
combined with on-the-job training working on actual operational problems using
the new equipment with an effective and targeted solution. The remaining funds
will be utilized to procure training equipment such as simulators, laboratory
instrumentation, text and audio-visual equtipment and materials.
24.   Several studies will be financed under the project.  Among these are the
detailed   design of LNG facilities if the import of LNG is found to be
economical, the management information systems study and PGNG's data processing
master plan.



- 86 -
Annex 5-2
Page 1 of 2
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Aspects Of Gas Production
Overall Imnact
1.    Poland  produces about 20 times more soot and five times more sulfur
dioxide and solid waste per unit of GNP than do Western European countries. Most
of these pollutants result from fossil fuel combustion, particularly hard coal,
without adequate environmental safeguards. The major pollutants released into
the atmosphere due to fossil fuel combustion during 1988 are estimated to be as
follows:
i;: mMlIons of tons)
Carbon      Nitrogen    Carbon
Soure           Ah   Sulhulr       Monoxlde     Ox          Dkide
Coal             7     2.5         0.05         S60         330
lugnte           1     L5          0.05         0.74        140
oin             0.02  0.02         3.30         L20         35
1Gas              ni   nil           01          0.02         26
These estimates are based on annual consumption of 162 Mt of coal; 70 Mt of
lignite, 15.5 Mt of oil, and 12.4 billion m3 of gas.  Particles between 0.25 to
5 microns (one millionth of a meter) are the most serious to health since they
can enter the lungs and remain trapped. Sulphur dioxide is a most harmful air
pollutant, causing ooth allergies and lung disease. With atmospheric moisture,
it oxidizes to sulphate - a principal component of acid rain.
2.     The incremental gas to be produced under the project would primarily
displace hard coal used for household space heating. Based on energy conversion
efficiency and high quality coal (1X sulfur), the project would result inx a
minimum annual reduction of 240,000 tons of fly ash, 50,000 tons of sulfur
dioxide, 8,000 tons of carbon monoxide, 20,000 tons of nitrogen oxide and
3,100,000 tons of carbon dioxide during 1994-2010.
Prolect Related Environmental Measures
3.    While natural gas utilization compared to other fossil fuel sources is
highly beneficial to the environment, its development and production requires
observance of en-vironmental regulations. PGNG generally tries to operate in
accordance with these regulations. Field environmental risks will be further
reduced through modern equipment, adequate materials and appropriate technology
to be provided under the project.
4.    Gas Leakage.  Gas field development entails some risks of gas leakage with
the possibility of fire, particularly when drilling wells, processing the gEs
and piping it tG the main distribution network.  Gas leakage while drilling wells
(blow-out), is the risk most frequently encountered and can cause substantial
damage.   To minimize this risk,  the project would use drilling rigs with
mechanical integrity and modern blow-out preventers with remote control systems.



- 87 -
Annex 5-2
Page 2 of 2
Blow-out control drills would be carried out routinely. Additional equipment
such as mud logging units will be used to monitor well progress while drilling
and any gas coming out of the hole. The wells will also be equipped with down-
hole safety systems, both during drilling and after completion.
5.    There is essentially no risk of gas lea'.-age within the gas processing
facilities since these installations   are regularly pressure tested.   Any
condensate contained in the gas will be separated and both gas and condensate
will be piped into pressure-tested lines. Similarly, any water produced with
the gas will be degassed and then processed through proven systems to remove
hydrocarbon liquids before disposal.   New wellhead installations will be in
accordance with the latest industry standards. Gas containing hydrogen sulfide
and carbon dioxide will be treated in accordance with internationally accepted
practice through the use of a proven field process to be provided under the
project. Piping of the gas within the field and to the main pipeline network
is also not expected to entail significant leakage risks. The pipes will be of
high tensile carbon steel, in accordance with API specifications. Sections of
pipe would be welded end-to-end, pressure tested and then laid in trenches.
6.    Drilling Waste DisRosal.  Drilling waste consists mainly of drilling fluid
(drilling mud), residual substances, and drill cuttings from the rocks. About
15 to 20 million barrels of drilling waste and drilling mud residues are disposed
of per year.   PGNG does not use oil-based drilling fluids, which are highly
toxic.  Disposal of drilling waste should comply with government regulations
enforced by regional environmental agencies. However, these guidelines are often
not observed due to lack of adequate handling equipment and storage facilities.
When these wastes include toxic materials (e.g., barium, chlorides, sodium) they
are disposed of in pits at isolated locations authorized by the local
environmental agencies. A practice that is now being generalized, consists of
reinjecting these wastes in depleted gas wells, with water that is produced with
the gas. This is a much better approach than disposal in site pits.
7.    Under the proposed project, solid control equipment will be provided for
the drilling rigs to ensure that all drilling fluids and drill cuttings will be
properly handled. Drill cuttings will be separated from the drilling mud residue
through centrifugation as they come out of the well and before they are disposed
of. All drilling fluids to be used for the project wells will be non-polluting
and water-based, using field proven organic polymer products and field tested
technology. When drilling operations are completed at a well, the drilling fluid
will be reconditioned on site and transferred to the next well or to a central
storage facility, using ski.d mounted mud tanks.
8.    Other  Environmental  Considerations.    The  project will  not  involve
significant forest clearance.   Geophysical survey lines and subsequent well
drilling locations will be selected to avoid close proximity to inhabited areas.
Water aquifers and surface source water, will be protected by adherence to
environmental. standards set by the industry. Any land used for the project will
be reclaimed, except wellhead location and road access to it. Effluents from
work-over operatiotis will be d-sposed of in special disposal weils.



- 88 -
Anlnex5-
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Detailed Preject Cost
,USS million)
Total
1991     1992      1993      1994     1995         1991-199S
_____ __L |F |L    F   L    F   L    F   L   F    L    F     T
Seismic                         0.0  28  0.0 14.0  0.0 11.1  0.0  0.7  0.0  0.2   0.0  28.8  28.8
Gas Production:                34.4 29.9 34.4 29.9 34.4 29.9 34.4 29.9 34.4 29.9 172.0 149.5 321.5
- lnfil Developmet and Compre6sson  26.2 19.9 26.2 19.9 26.2 19.9 26.2 19.9 26.2 19.9 131.0  99.5 230.5
- Apprasa Drillng and Evaluation  8.2 10.0  8.2 10.0  8.2 10.0  8.2 10.0  8.2 10.0  41.0  50.0  91.0
of Recent Dlscoveies
Gas TreatmenVlSulfur Recosfy    0.2  0.2  1.1  2.7  4.0  7.6  3.6  6.9  1.1  1.3  10.0  1.   28.7
Transmisson and DiOrbton:       6.9  5.1 15.7 23.0 14.6 11.4  9.8 10.7  7.5  5.5  54.5  55.7 110.2
- Underground Storage           2.5  1.2  6.6  4.3  5.0  4.6  3.7  3.8  1.5  0.0  19.3  13.9  33.2
- SCADA                         0.1  0.1  2.6 13.8  4.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   6.7  14.0  20.7
- Transmission                  4.3  3.8  4.6  3.8  5.0  4.4  5.6  4.5  6.0  5.5  25.5  22.0  47.5
- Compresslon                   0.0  0.0  1.9  1.1  0.6  2.3  0.5  2.4  0.0  0.0   3.0   5.8   8.8
Techncal Asusanc 9nd Tralning:    0.6  1.3  0.7  2.0  0.5  1.2  0.5  0.8  0.4  0.8   2.7   6.1   8.8
- Field Development             0.1  0.4  0.1  0.6  0.1  0.6  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.2   0.5   2.0   2.5
- Production                    0.4  0.6  0.4  0.6  0.4  0.6  0.4  0.6  0.3  0.6   1.9   3.0   4.9
- Studies                       0.1  0.3  0.2  0.8  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.3   1.1   1.4
TOTALS_SDOS_. 42.1 . ___51.91 71.6 53.5 612 4.                      .0      37.7 239.2. 258.8 498.0
__               ~ ~~ =t ,..,        , -    _ ,.........;_==  =         ...... _ _    -
Physloal Contingenls 55%        2.1  2.0  2.6  3.6  2.7  3.1  2.4  2.5  2.2  1.9  12.0  13.1  25.1
Prce Contingnles at 4.4 Wyear   3.8  3.5  7.2  9.9 10.1 11.5 11.6 11.8 12.8 11.1  45.5  47.8  93.3
Total Contingncses              5.9  5.5  9.8 13.5 12.8 14.6 14.0 14.3 15.0 13.0  57.5  60.9 118.4
4--~1.  8S. -63  :7 --                               1    616.4
~tA1L1KVU~tM3NT#  48.~ 44.8 61.7 85.1 66~37S.8 42.      Sti 5845   296.7  310.7 66
Notor L Loc.  Costs; F- Foregn Costs; T  Total Costs



- 89 -
Annex 5-4
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
CUMULATIVE
IBRD FY QUARTER WMITDRAWALS ANNUAL  TOTAL
1990-91       III            13.4           13.4        13.4
IV            10.0           23.4         23.4
1991-92       l              11.6           11.6        35.0
11            11.6           23.2         46.6
III           12.5           35.7         59.1
IV            12.5           48.2         71.6
1992-93       I              13.4           13.4        85.0
II            14.1           27.5         99.1
III            ; 4.1         41.6        113.2
IV             13.8           55.4       127.0
1993-94       I              13.8           13.8       140.8
II            13.4           27.2        154.2
III           13.0           40.2        167.2
IV             12.5           52.7       179.7
1994-95       I              12.0           12.0       191.7
II            11.6           23.6        203.3
III           11.3           34.9        214.6
IV            10.9           45.8        225.5
1995-96       I              10.9           10.9       236.4
1[            13.6           24.5        250.0



POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implemenaton Schedule
UPSTREAM COMPONENTS
1990                1991                1992               1993                1994               1995
CALENDARYEAR                 I   11 1    IV    I   11111  IV    I   11  "I  IV    I   11 III  PI(    I   11   n  IV                II  HI  IV
Procurem  
Seismic Survey
In lineki) km )..
Inlill Drilling
(number of wells)
Rehabilitation
(number of vwsels)                                                                             O
Appraisal Driling
(number ofwells) ;..1.  . =r
DOWNSTREAM COMPONENTS
1990                 1991               1992                1993               1994                1995
CALENDAR YEAR                I   11II1I    IV    I   11  II  IV    I   II  II  iV    I   II  III IV    I   11  ill  IV    I   II  lill IV
Design             .
............   ... I ./ 4   ...
Procurement                                                             .  ..... ...
Gas Treatment &
Desulfurizatlion                      X         * . ,           ;2s1 . .:
ransmission Pipeline
Construction on km)                                                                                           ..
Compressors Installation
(number of units)                                                               a     2Ik5s2I  .
Underground Gas Storage
SCADA Installation                                                                 _L _                       eoerc o    _
i i, u | I ,. __ I



- 91 -
Annex 5-6
POLAND . ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Action Plan
Produton Perfmn 
Average Production (m3?                          Measure of Productivity
Number of Employees in Production
M3 Lost Due To Outages of Maior ComRonents             )
Average Production (m3)                        )
)Reliability of Service
Total Maintenance Man Hours                            )
Average Production (m3)                              )
Total Operating and Maintenance C,osts                 Effectiveness   of   Gas
Average Production (m3)                            Production
Thrnissen and Distrnlfion M&D)
Peormonance Indctr
System Losses (m3)
Gas Supplied To The System (m3)                        Measure of Efficiency
Number of Interruotions (m3)                           )
T&D System (km)                                 )
Annual Loss (m3) Caused by T&D Interruption
Gas Supplied To The System (m3)                   )
Annual Ioss (m3) Caused by T&D InterruRtion            )Reliability of Service
T&D System (km)
Total Maintenance Man Hours
T&D System (km)
Comnerdial Pefornia  Indkaitors
Average Gas Sales (m3)
Number of Employees                                   Maximize Efficiency and
Average Number of Customers                            Effectiveness    of
Number of Employees                                 Commercial Operations
For each ratfo. PGNG should supply data for the curent, past and nwd year. combined with anawysis of the varance from planned rgetsa and a



Gas Pricing Structure of Polnd                      (Cubic Melers)
Exchange Rate, Zloty per Dolbr = 900                 Poland' Gas Tariff Structure Model
Pdolish    User                                               Natural Gas     Heatin  Capaciy Charge by rate of consumpi ion                             Monthly
Gas      Dcfinition                                           Chemicl         Content   (m3Jhr)                                                           Charge
Category                    _                                 Coimnpit>ion    KcaUmw   _. _..
for summer           for spring4all         for winter
- -  up3O                                      __  __  __  __
Zloty     U.S. S     ZlU30      U.S.            S               Zbiv  US. S
En          ZI   IndustryconsumerswithexactgasmLeters                  IlighMethane    8,200   72  1,013    S0.11       Zl 1,316    $0.14    Zl 1,519      0.16 
O          Zal   lndusttyconsumerswith amc gas meters                  High Nitrogen    5.200     a 638       $0.07    Za 830       S0.09    2a 958       $0.10                                   0
C           R Kl   Industrvconsumers wilh eact s meters                CokeOven         4.100     Zl 507      50.05     ZI 659      50.07    Za  760      50.08  _
Z2    lndustryconsumerswith lksaccurategasameters          Iligh Methane    8,200     a 975       30.10   Za  1.267    50.13     a  1,462    50.15
tD         Za2   Industry conumes with less accurate as meters         High Nitrogen    5,200     Zl 620      50.07        806      o0.08      Zl 930     S0.10
K2    IndutlrY consumers with less accurate as meters      Coke Oven        4100      Zl 487      $005      Zt 634      $0.07     Zl 731      50.08
Z4    Comnmercal consumes                                  High Methane    8,200                                                                         4200   .4
til        Za44   Commercial consumers                                 High Nitrogen    5,200                                                                     23 4,200  50.44
K4    Commercial consumers                                 Coke Oven _    4.100              Z_                                                       Z 4.200  0.44
K5    Intermuptible service                                Coke Oven        4.100
Z6   Greenhouse consumer s                                 tigh Methane    8,200                                                                     Zl 82    $8.66
Za6   Greenhouse consumers                                 tligh Nitrogen    5,200                                                                    a4 82,250  58.66
K6   Greenhouse consumers                                  Coke Oven        4.100                                                                    Zl 82,2505 8.6
T-  Industry consumer                                         TownGas          30,0
PI   Industryco nsumer                                     P a_ P ne/Air Mix  5,750                                                                    . .._  Zl   4200  50.44    00    i
M2   Commercial Consumer                                   TownGas           ,Z                                                                                           CO r        U
ty   P2    ComrnerCialCDnsunter                            Prne /Air Mix  5,750                                                                       2 4,200  w0.44                  O           I
Z8~    rodang7Sumer hontes                                   igh Mdhane         0                                                                                                       to
En         Za8   BoardingfSummer homes                                 High Nitrogen    5,200
rt         Zs8   Boarding/Summer homes                                 Stabilized Metla  6,8S0
C           KS    BoardingfSummer homes                                Coke Oven        4,100                                                                                                     0
rt         M8   BoardingfSummer hoomes                                 Twn Gas          3,800                                                                                         : _
P8    BoardingSummer homes                                 PropaneAir Mx  5S,750 
tD         PB18   Boardina/Summer homes                                Pited LPG (C2   24,3                                                                                               n .
lb                                                                                                                                                                                    '- a    A
ID
0                                                                                                                                                   s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Z7    Residential                                          ligh Methane    8,200   _-                    _
__  __________                                                                     __                                                                          _    _3
Za7   Residential                                          High Nitrogen    5,200
P7    Residential                                          Propane/Air Mix  5.750
Z?- 7   Residential                                        Stabilized Metha  6.850
IC?   Residential                                         Coke Oven         4,100                                                                                                                  
rI)-
11M7   RsdntilTownl  Gas   . ,   =O
t0



_ 93 -                  Aml.ex 6-1
Page 2 of 2
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gas Tariff Structure
(Energy Charges)
X    "E azE aa; _  __  , _  _.      X iS
w ass sa;             *      ,     as
~~~  ~    s 
ga agaa        9
i R jR  F3     R   AR  R   RR R  RR dR  d   i 
HAS  8;AS3                AsS
:2:r f12E'!;! t
i-.   J a      a aa s   as  g  gaa-   a s = .v                   4 g
1SE !       8R@;          fiX3 E1         9F    I I  I. II  81 |IL  |a .  81 11  al
1~~~~~~~~~~~ i 3 I
Source: ESNAP. Tariff Structure as of Jan. 1, 1990



- 94 -
Annex 6-2
Page 1 of 3
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
PGNG - Forecast Financial Statements, 1990-96
Income Statements (US$ million)
Zi. MDm.       Estimatc              Forecast
_____ 1989   Y189   1990   1991 11992 1 1993 1 1994    1995   1996
OPERATING REVENUES
Sales of Gas
- Households                  41.098    10.3    49.3  276.6  561.9  671.0  850.5 1,043.3 1,242.0
- Industry & Other Large     574,917   143.7  597.1  815.4  982.5 1,109.7 1,112.4 1,115.1 1,117.8
TOTAL                       616,015   154.0   646.5 1,092.0 1,544.4 1,780.7 1,9629 2,158.4 2,359.8
Sales of Oil                    7.912    2.0    10.1   19.5   15.2   14.3   13.4   12.4   12.4
Sales Of By-products            5,400     1.4     1.4    1.5    1.7    2.1    2.6    3.3    4.5
Rechargeable Works             18,253    4.6     5.0    5.4    6.0   7.1    8.6   11.0   14.7
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE   647,580   161.9   662.9 1,118.4 1,567.4 1,804.1 1,987.5 2,165.1 2,391.3
OPERATING EXPENSES
Royalties On Production (18.5%)     0     0.0     0.0  205.6  288.5  332.1  365.6  401.6  438.8
Imported Gas                  401,269   100.3   140.7  618.4  618.4  604.0  596.0  596.0  596.0
Salarles &Wages               101,804    25.5    27.4   29.8   32.4   35.3   38.5   41.9   45.6
Wage Tax, Social Security      59,046    14.8    17.8   19.4   21.1   23.0   25.0   27.2   29.7
Materials                     163,931    41.0    44.7   64.4   80.2  101.7  127.2  155.0  185.3
Energy,Transp.Repair,etc       63,900    16.0    19.9   26.8   37.0   50.9   67.9   87.2  109.0
Depreciation                   29,000     7.3    39.7   43.0   49.3   5d.1   67.9   77.5   87.2
TOTAL CHARGES               818,950   204.7   290.1 1,007.4 1,126.9 1,205.1 1,288.0 1,3e6.4 1,491.5
LESS:INTERNAL TRANSFERS
-Charged To Exploration       117j000    29.3    19.0   21.7   24.5   28.3   32.5   25.9   27.0
-Other Charges                 73,870    18.5    23.0   31.0   42.8   58.8   78.4  100.8  126.0
TOTAL TRANSFERS             190,870    47.7    42.0   52.7   67.2   87.1  110.9  126.7  153.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES  628,080   157.0   248.2  954.7 1,059.7 1,118.0 1,177.1 1,259.7 1,338.5
OPERATING INCOME               19,500    4.9   414.8  163.7  507.7  686.1  810.4  925.4 1,052.8
Plus:Other Revenue                  0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST   19,500    4.9   414.8  163.7  507.7  686.1  810.4  925.4 1,052.8
Less: Interest Expenses         5,000     1.3    0.9    3.9   13.5   23.0   31.4   37.4   39.1
NET INCOME AFTER INTEREST      14,500    3.6   413.9  159.8  494.2  663.0  779.0  887.9 1,013.7
Lesslncome Tax                 12,700     3.2   165.6   63.9  197.7  265.2  311.6  355.2  405.5
Less:Dlvidendsto Founders Fund                   51.7   28.8   64.7   73.3   79.7   84.1   87.6
NETINCOME                       1,800     0.4   196.6   67.1  231.8  324.5  387.8  448.7  520.6
Operating Ratlo                   979    97      37      8      68     6             58     5
iRate of Retum (After Taxes & Div.)  61    61    440    140    310    110      6      70



- 95 -
Annex 6 -2
Page 2 of 3
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PGNG - Forecast Financial Statements, 1990.96
Cash Flow Statements (US$ million)
Zi. min.       Eainatc               FornA
1989    1989    990    199     1992 i   1993   1994   1995   1996
ISOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Income Before Interest      19,'iOO   4.9   414.8  163.7  507.7  686.1  810.4  925.4 1,052.8
Plus:Depreciation               29,000    7.3    39.7   43.0   49.3   58.1   67.9   77.5   87.2
Less:Income Tax & Other Taxes   12,700    3.2   165.6   63.9  197.7  265.2  311.6  355.2  405.5
Less.Windfall Profits Tax           0     0.0     0.0    0.0   62.4  269.2  365.6  412.4  462.6
Less:Dividends to Founders' Funds   0     0.0    51.7   28.8   64.7   73.3   79.7   84.1   87.6
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION       35,800    8.9   237.2  114.0  232.3  136.4  121.4  151.2  184.3
Subscriber Contributions        12,000    3.0     3.5   11.9   17.5   17.4   15.9   14.0   16.0
Long Term Borrowings
-Proposed IBRD                     0     0.0     0.0   46.6   52.5   55.1   49.1   46.7    0.0
-Proposed EIB                      0     0.0     0.0   11.2   12.6   13.2   11.8   11.2    0.0
-Other (Loay    _              10522    2.6    10.0   55.9   63.0   66.1   58.9   56.0   60.0
TOTAL SOURCES             58.322    14.6   250.7  239.6  377.9  288.3  257.1  279.1  260.3
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Exploration                    117,000    29.3    19.0   21.7   24.5   28.3   32.5   25.9   27.0
Development:
- IBRD Project                     0     0.0     0.0   92.8  146.8  142.1  125.6  109.1    0.0
- PGNG Program                 98,560    24.6    35.0   26.2   28.1   31.7   33.3   31.0  160.1
Sub-Total Development        98,560    24.6    35.0  119.0  174.9  173.8  158.9  140.1  160.1
Debt Service:
- Principal                     6,117    1.5     0.7    2.7   13.9   26.5   39.7   50.9   78.3
- Interest                      5,000    1.3     0.9    3.9   13.5   23.0   31.4   37.4   39.1
Sub-Total Debt Service       11,117     2.8     1.6    6.7   27.4   49.5   71.1   88.3  117.4
Personnel Funds                  1,232    0.3     0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Ch2. ^ln1' Working Capita!   (169,587)  (42.4)  126.7  134.1  100.3   45.2  (146.3)  20.0   22 3
Changes In Cash Position            0     0..Q    8.4   68.4    9.1    5.5    5.9    7.1    7.6
Temporary Surplus (Deficit)        (0)   (0.0)   59.7  (110.6)  41.4  (14.3)  134.7   (2.6)  (74.4)
TOTAL APPLICATIONS        58,322    14.6   250.7  239.6  377.9  288.3  257.1  279.1  260.3
Net Intemal Cash Generation
I Exploration and Development                     600A   560A   31q    660    596   61       33%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio        3.2    3.2   146.1   17.1    8.5    2.8    1.7    1.7    1.6



- 96 -
Annox 6 -."I
Page 3 of 3
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PGNG - Forcast Financial Statements, 1990-96
Balance Sheets (US$ million)
Zl. Mln.        cEnatizuath_   Fora:ca
1989    1989   1990   1991 119921  1993 1 1994   1995   1996
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets            714,420   178.6   993.3 1,110.7 1,306.6 1,542.7 1,781.9 2,014.6 2,255.8
Less: Accumulated Depreciation    381,230    95.3   521.3  587.2  662.3  749.6  850.5  965.4 1,095.0
Net Fixed Assets              333,190    83.3   472.0  523.5  644.3  793.1  931.5 1,049.2 1,160.7
Work In Progress               59,500    14.9    19.3   65.5   96.2   95.6   87.4   77.1   88.0
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & Banks                    1,300    0.3     8.8   77.2   86.2   91.8   97.6  104.7  112.3
Accounts Receivable           100,000    25.0   165.7  279.6  391.8  451.0  318.0  349.6  382.6
Other Receivables               ),500    2.6     3.4    4.4    5.8    7.5    9.7   12.7   16.5
Underground Gas Storage        67.920    17.0    17.0  49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1
Other Inventory                16,980    4.2     5.3    6.6    8.3   10.4   13.0   16.2   20.2
Other Current Assets            9,700    2.4     2.7    2.9    3.2    3.6    3.9    4.3    4.7
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS         206,400    51.6   202.9  419.8  544.4  613.3  491.3  536.5  585.5
Cash - Temp. Surplus (Deficit)     0     0.0    59.7  (50.9)  (9.5)  (23.8) 110.9  108.3   3^.9
TOTAL ASSETS                 599,090   149.8   761.5 1,005.5 1,487.5 2,087.0 2,711.7 3,359.4 3,992.2
LIABUnS          _
EQUITY
Enterprise Fund               130,370    32.6   438.9  541.0  858.3 1,297.2 1,797.8 2,346.5 2,964.6
Founders' Fund                111,329    27.8   206.9  223.4  258.7  293.1  318.6  336.4  350.4
Personnel Funds                 3,000    0.8     0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8
Sub-Total                   244,699    61.2   646.5  765.1 1,117.7 1,591.1 2,117.2 2,683.6 3,315.8
LONG TERM DEBT                 17,979    4.5    14.7  125.7  239.9  347.9  427.9  491.0  472.7
CURRENT UABILMES
Accounts Payable              231,500    57.9    72.9   86.1  100.1  116.9  134.0  150.8  168.3
Other Current Liabilities     104,912    26.2    27.4   28.6   29.8   31.2   32.5   34.0   35.5
TOTAL CURRENT UABILMES    336,412   84.1   100.3  114.7  129.9  148.1  166.6  184.8  203.8
TOTAL UABIUMES               599,090   149.8   761.5 1,005.5 1,487.5 2,087.0 2,711.7 3,359.4 3,992.2
Current Ratio                     0.6    0.6      2.0    3.7    4.2   4.1    2.9    2.9    2.9
DebtIDebt plus Equlty (%)          7%     7%      2      14     18    18    17    15%    12t
--~~ ~ ~ ~   ~ I.                                  -----



- 97 -
Annex 7-1
POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
AsRsumptlgns
1.    Project costs include: (i) capital coscs; and (ii) incremental operating
costs. All cost estimates are in US dollars (including border price estimates
for local costs) and are calculated in mid 1989 prices, excluding physical and
price contingencies (base case). Minimum benefits of the project consist of the
sum of incremental natural gas and condensate sales revenues. This is a minimum
measure of the benefits because transmission, environmental, technical assistance
and training benefits are excluded. All gas volumes were converted to their
calorific equivalent using a conversion factor of 8,200 kcal/m3. All benefit
estimates are based on 1989 gas and oil prices with zero real price escalation.
Incremental outputs of oil and gas are valued (at the well head) at typical mid-
1989 import prices for oil and gas in neighboring West European market economies.
BaseCase
2.    Project cost and benefit streams and the economic rate of return (ERR)
calculation for the base case are shown in Table I below. The ERR is high at
37X. This is mainly due to the fact that the gas reserves to be developed are
already proven reserves and, therefore, earlier exploration expenditures are
considered as sunk costs.
Sensitivitv Ar lysis
3.    The project's rate of return can be negatively affected by: (i) cost
overruns; (ii) poor production performance; or (iit) a combination of both.
Results of different sensitivity tests are shown in Table 1 and clearly
demonstrate that, even under the worse scenario-all costs up by 30X and gas
volumes down by 30%,-the project ERR remains higher than 171.



POLAND - ENERGY RESOURCE DEtELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate Of Return Calculation
BASE CASE
Told              PHWECT PERO
!1S      J        ttlr 10 11 19# S00 7  lOS_ 1991  2000  2001  202   2003  2004  2006  200   2007  2NU   200M   2010
TldPr*s"Cod             4U.C      61.4  123    114.7   07.3   i1.1
mod. (M. Us$         239.2    42.1    09    53.5    46.3   43.4
ri . mNl. usS        2".6        .    71.o   01.2    49.0   37.7
JW1   -I   -L           ImN  t _        I        1    190   ISM   NM0    01  O         20    2004          2000  207           200   2010
Ww6 blUonau                    0.00    0.17    1 .0    1.63    1.92    2.3   2.2   2.11   1.94   1.60   t.65   1.60   1.5S   1.50   1.44   1.32   1.20   1.15  0."   0.95
c_,'.000buw                       0       0      0       0       0       40    39    30    33    30    26    25    23    21    19    1t    16    1S    14    13
om.usvmma                        aso        so      so so                6 so so          so    so w    oo  o    so    so    so    so    so    so t o                  so
cmnd_d. USSAon                  135    135    135    135    136         135   135   135   13tl  135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135
TOlWl ene                           0      14    104    146    154         194   18    174  100    14S   135   131   127   123   116   106    90    94    s0    76
O,mII. U8S$                       0      14    104    146    154        109   12   100  155   144  132   12    124   120  115  1t0    90    92    76    70
condAemMls.m. US$                 0       0      0       0       0        5      S      5     4      4      4      3     3      3      3     2      2      2     2      2         t
NET S.E3dl    mi.US6 g61)   (11 )    (II)    49                    73      194   167   174   100   146   130   131   127   123   118   tOS    9#    94    s0    78
PnoJUET                         371T
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
SCENARIO 1: ALL COSTS UP BY 30%
TeSd              PROJECT PEIOC
PRtkqw CO8T8            M-       1*01%" 1W3  191        4 In$   INS    IM            10_7 W    190 _       2019          2003  2004  2005  200o 2007  2000  20C  2010
Tad Pi4  Coll           647A    106.6  1OO.   149.1  120.5  105.4
ad, WAl. US$         311.0    54.7   W67       0A.0   02.    56.4
_ep. mNl. USS        336A      51.1   01       79.0   43.7   46.0
NET9ENEFIM m.US                   (106)   (147)   (45)    20       4a      194   187   174   16O   14    130   131   127   123   118   106    as    94    s0    78
PTKM= EM                       r27
SCENAO 2G  VLXUM  OM BY 30%
PJOWT BOlERTS                    1991   MM    3          1M 4 ISM          10   1007  IM    1m    2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2006  2006  2010
hoooe_aOn_Ol.bmm3                 0.00    0.12    0.01    1.23    1.34    1.05   1.59   1.46   1.30   1.26   ' S   1.12   1.09   105   101   0.02   0.64  0.61   069  0.67
TOW  mells                          0      10      73    102    106        135   132   123  113  105         we    93    90    67    d3    78    00    0S    57    55
VWugi.US$                         0      10      73    102    106       132   127  118   109   101    92    90    87    84    61    74    67    64    55    53
condms mel. USS                   0      0       0       0       0        5      S      5     4      4      4     3      3      3     3      2      2     2      2      2
NEr ERTS.MILUS6                   (62)  (114)   (42)        5      26      136   132   123   113   105    96    93    90    87    63    76    00 e          4     57    55    &
PROJECTER                       245
SCENARIO 3: COSTS UP BY 30% AND GAS VOLUME DOWN BY 30%
WT SENEFITS.a  I1                 ( u107)   i151)    (76)   (24)    2      138   132   123   113   10    as    93    90    87    83    76    00    66    57    55
PFOECTERR E75t



MAP SECTION



IA'                          ifT                          i8 .                                                      22'                           2                                                    POLAND                             lARD2
f3al /f it                                                                              Se                 V U .  S .          S .               R .            ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,AE/K  Ls...m..,ss~e                                                                                                                                           Emalopasot Ateos I, -Ga lit, IV. WsH   Oil FlooV
SUPSK               n_......IOl i2d
GDANSK0                                   '..O                               O^4&fo  Go, Fields
DEIDLAG                   SJWA @                             t\ Q  e                                                          Gas Wells
I.                              lej,2 F \s l/ V  >  N   t   l   \ Pipelines
high Methane Go,
_;OILSZTYN                                                                                                    hg Nitrogn  Go,
IL  , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coke Got
S                                                                                                                                                                                          S 7  _               Compression Station, (Got)
0D -1At1 STIK                                  *                    Treating & Seller Reco-e-y Plan,
jYDGOS                                              OSTRa5KA0       IOMMA                                                                                 Producig Hand Cool Area
4                           R g tulf                                                                             I u c > ,  3 C!E C H A N O W  -                          P ro d uc in g  L ign ite  A reot g    C oa l    D e2 ositi
ClECHANOW                                        LI..R.-A
-P                                                                WKA  5PLOCK                                                                                                              Nci-I CRpitoc A
~~~~~~~~~~ s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k -|i)WA$AW                                               @     SIEDLCEL8_ 2tGcndos|
sr2z har,                                 X-  55ffK TI \ ea  -                          n 2 9&   AdomcwE' .,/  A  A  I      o 2ra                                                       -
it)  AZ ~~~~~~~~jA    .4NA     A                                        %ARPO~~~~~~~~~ WEWICE  PWADLASKA                                                                                 IMojn os-oisl
ZILO                          TI                                        (KVon e< fi     / < ; EiENIWC                               oDLLA                                                         .     Intoronoionol Roondarios|
a                           ran                    4OZ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  z <.t                                                                                                     odrt-r- of coo deoi- re opp-oa-to.
P44CM                   / J E R C T C L A W  % /  LU3 na  <  e a rl        NORWAY       !
JELENIA                                                                                                LUB NA  /        La
.,,p6pA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~II~SWEDEN
KIELCE                                                                                  DENMARK
ixn f~~~~~~~~~~TOCHOWA |DEARA
C,                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lit RCA  Aj $ t ~ \ A: ~   7  oj  ~ X  O A 4   . S. S. R.
r e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VR6                                                              11'Z                                                                G RMA. 
2                                           /                                                       QTAFCDRTEC   ~>5}, ,.0 n      2f_J 
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
pPzEMps~~~~~~~~~                   FE. REP.t-- '              mEr
,0    ,    Er2  TOg   l50        2?00                   0           4 f                                    >       a.              veser  /Fnv                  602Nmil    AUSTRIA $    HUNGARY  ( ,
KILES                                                                                               Tr                                                                     ROMANIA
S04b                                                         | 2 760 LSO J rM85                                          ,,,, ==; ,m                 ITALY
tI.. 14,Tg60TT0                                                                          A                                                                                                       YUGOSLAVIA
IT'vG                                                             22   )                            24                                                                            JANUARY 199



