Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19053
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3215 - POL)
March 31, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Polish Zloty (ZI) until 1994
New Polish Zloty (PLN) as of 1995 (1 PLN = 10,000 ZI)
Average Exchange Rates
Zloty/US$
1990    1991      1992     1993     1994    1995   1996   1997   July 1998
9,500   11,100   13,630   17,000   22,720   2.43   2.70   3.28       3.49
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BCM          =       billion cubic meter
BCMY         =       billion cubic meter per year
BTU          =       British thermal unit
CM           =       cubic meter ( = 35.31 cubic feet)
CMD          =       cubic meter per day
kcal         =       kilocalorie ( = 3.968 BTU)
MMBTU        =       million BTU
MMCMD        =       million CMD
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CHP          =       Combined Heat and Power
ECU          =       European Currency Unit
EIB          =       European Investment Bank
EOR          =       Enhanced Oil Recovery
ERR          =       Economic Rate of Return
EU           =       European Union
GNP          =       Gross National Product
HMNG         =       High Methane Natural Gas
ICB          =       International Competitive Bidding
LMNG         =       Low Methane Natural Gas
PGNiG                Polskie G6rnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo S.A. (Polish Oil and
Gas Company)
SCADA        =       Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SECAL        =       Sector Adjustment Loan
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President                      :               Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director                    :              Basil Kavalsky, ECCPL
Sector Director                                    Hossein Razavi, ECSEG
Sector Leader                       :              Henk Busz, ECSEG
Responsible Staff                   :               Julius Wilberg, ECSEG
Hannachi Morsli, EMTOG
Anton Smit, Consultant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3215 - POL)
Contents
PAGE
PREFACE .......................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................                                                                                  ii
PART L. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................................1
A. INTRODUCTION                                           .........................................................                                          1
B.  STATEMENT  AND  EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES                                             ........................................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ........................................................3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                                 ........................................................6
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .........................................................8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE .........................................................9
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER .........................................................  9
H.  ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME .........................................................                                                                        10
I. FUTURE PROJECT OPERATION ........................................................ 10
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .........................................................1.1
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................................ 12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT ........................................................ 1 3
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS ........................................................ 14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIME TABLE ........................................................ 14
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS ........................................................ 1 4
TABLE 5: PGNIG PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ........................................................                                                             1 5
TABLE 6: PGNIG ORGANIZATION CHART ........................................................ 16
TABLE  7:  STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  THE PROJECT  .......................                                             .................................  17
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COST ........................................................ 18
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ........................................................ 19
TABLE 9: GAS PRICE LEVELS ........................................................                                                                         19
TABLE 10: ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................................ 20
TABLE  11:  STATUS OF LEGAL  COVENANTS ........................................................ 21
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ........................................................                                                                23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUT ........................................................                                                             24
APPENDIX A: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
MAP - IBRD 30111
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3215-POL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Poland Energy Resource
Development Project (Loan No. 3215-POL, US$250 million equivalent) approved on June 5,
1990. The Polish Oil and Gas Company (PGNiG) was the Borrower and the Republic of Poland
was the Guarantor. The project was co-financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) for an
amount of ECU 50 million.
The IBRD loan was closed on June 30, 1998, two and a half years behind the original
schedule. The last disbursement for the loan took place on September 28, 1998. From the
original amount of US$250 million, about US$1.8 million remained undisbursed. The EIB loan
closed in December 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Julius Wilberg (Senior Financial Analyst), Hannachi Morsli,
(Principal Petroleum Engineer), and Anton Smit (Petroleum Exploration and Production
Consultant). It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
supervision reports, a visit to Poland in October 1998 and the Borrowers contribution report
prepared by the PGNiG (Appendix A). The report was reviewed and edited by Peter Law (Senior
Energy Specialist, Energy, Mining and Telecommunications Department), and reviewed by Henk
Busz (Energy Sector Leader, Europe and Central Asia Region).



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3215-POL)
EVALUATION SUMmARY
Introduction
1.    The Energy Resource Development Project was IBRD's first project to support the Polish
energy sector. The project aimed to assist a Government program introduced in early 1990,
aimed at stabilizing the country's creditworthiness. Under this program, special attention was
given to the improvement of local energy efficiency and increased production of domestic natural
gas in order to slow the decline in hard coal available for export - the country's single largest
source of foreign currency earnings. At this time, Poland was about three times less energy-
efficient than other countries at a similar level of economic development. By conserving energy
and substituting natural gas for coal, there would also be a contribution towards reduction of the
severe environmental problems that Poland experienced. To support the implementation of this
program, the Government of Poland requested Bank assistance for the project.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the energy-related convertible currency
earnings of Poland by: (i) increasing domestic production of natural gas; and (ii) encouraging
energy conservation for all forms of energy and fuel substitution through supporting energy price
reform; (b) contribute to a reduction of environmental pollution related to energy use; and (c)
improve the competitive, regulatory and financial framework of the sector entities by supporting
the implementation of appropriate restructuring programs. In parallel with the project, the
Bank/UNDP's Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) was to: (a) implement
energy sector restructuring studies and a gas pricing study; (b) implement studies to optimize
further development of the gas sector and assess its environmental impact; and (c) assist in
preparing a contractual framework to facilitate participation of foreign and domestic private
sector enterprises in developing the petroleum sector.
3.    To meet these objectives, the project's main components consisted of: (a) investments in
equipment and materials to increase the production of natural gas through (i) development and
rehabilitation of existing gas fields; (ii) procurement and installation of field gas compression;
(iii) delineation and evaluation of gas fields discovered in recent years; (iv) expansion of
transmission; (v) development of underground storage facilities to respond to load fluctuations;
(vi) procurement and installation of gas purification facilities; and (b) technical assistance
through consultancy services, training and studies.



11
4.    The project objectives contained in para. 2 were well designed. However, the design of
parallel objective (a), which concerned the ESMAP restructuring study, included agreement in
the SAR that the Government should start to implement the restructuring program in 1991. This
objective presupposed the Government would accept the restructuring program and be prepared
to fully implement it within the project timescale.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The Polish Oil and Gas Company (PGNiG) was the Borrower of the US$250 million
IBRD loan, and the Republic of Poland was the Guarantor. The project was co-financed by the
European Investment Bank (EIB) for ECU 50 million, and the EIB loan was closed in December
1995. The IBRD loan was closed on June 30, 1998, two and a half years behind the original
schedule, with the last disbursement on September 28, 1998. The gas purification component of
the project (para. 3, item (vi)) was not implemented due to the fall in gas demand between 1990
and 1994 caused by the economic downturn in Poland. Also, the SCADA part of the
transmission component (para. 3, item (iv)) was not implemented since a feasibility study'
showed the cost would be substantially higher than the US$ 20.7 million estimated at appraisal,
and PGNiG decided that a more economic solution would be to use the telecommunications
facilities of existing system operators (the Polish Power Grid Company (PPGC) and the Polish
Telecommunications Company (PPGC)). The funds originally allocated for the SCADA were
used for the underground storage (para. 3, item (v)) which had a higher cost than originally
envisaged to achieve the same scope. The delay in project completion was primarily due to the
longer than anticipated time required to develop the underground storage facilities. From the
US$250 million loan, about US$1.8 million remained undisbursed after the four-month grace
period following the closing date, and was cancelled effective October 31, 1998.
6.    The project made a significant contribution to the Government of Poland's program to
increase production of domestic natural gas in order to slow the decline in hard coal available for
export. The project contributed to first arresting, and subsequently reversing the decline in
production of natural gas, and substantially increasing the reserves. Incremental natural gas
production from the project reached 1.85 BCMY, about 50% of PGNiG's total production.
Without the project, the total gas production would have decreased from 3.0 BCMY at the time
of appraisal, to 1.9 BCMY by 1997. The project's cumulative incremental gas production is
expected to exceed the original estimate by 17%. The project had the potential to achieve even
higher incremental production, but this was constrained due to: (a) the yearly shut in of more
than one third of the domestic gas production due to the lack of load management facilities; (b)
difficulties in obtaining the right-of-way from landowners for construction of wells and facilities;
(c) failure of PGNiG to exploit the potential demand for Low Methane Natural Gas (LMNG)
when the project's field appraisal yielded more gas reserves than anticipated. In addition, the
Government and Senior Management of PGNiG did not appear to give high priority to removing
these constraints and developing domestic production as a self-standing business, but rather gave
priority to large natural gas import schemes. Based on the reserves already established and the
1 The SCADA feasibility study was prepared by British Gas in 1993.



iii
modem technologies introduced, the project's incremental gas production is highly likely to be
sustained over the project's lifetime.
7.    Without the project's incremental gas production, most consumers would have needed to
use coal instead. On this basis, the project is credited with an annual emissions reduction from
coal burning of about: (a) 250,000 tons of ash; (b) 65,000 tons of sulfur dioxide; (c) 25,000 tons
of nitrogen oxide; (d) 12,000 tons of carbon monoxide; and (e) 250,000 tons of carbon dioxide.
In addition, the project introduced international best practice in environmental management of
PGNiG's field operations and effluent disposal.
8.    The timescale for the institutional reformns under the project proved over-ambitious and
PGNiG is the last remaining fully integrated monopoly in the energy sector. The restructuring of
PGNiG is taking longer than anticipated due to the resistance to implement restructuring from
within PGNiG (including the Workers Council), a lack of decisive action from the Government,
and the reluctance of both to implement any restructuring which might allow Gazexport (Russia)
to gain a foothold in the Polish gas market. Nevertheless, significant progress was made in that:
(i) PGNiG was transformed from a state enterprise to a corporation; and (ii) non-core-activities
and service companies were transformed into limited liability companies and prepared for spin-
off. Improvements were achieved within PGNiG with regard to corporate management, financial
performance, corporate planning and operational skills of field personnel.
9.    Under the project, the Bank's dialogue with the Government directly contributed to the
formulation of the Geological and Mining Law which was passed in 1994, as well as the
significant private participation in petroleum and gas exploration which has now been achieved
in Poland. The overall reform objectives of the project were consistent with and supported by
those sought under the Heat Supply Project's SECAL (Ln. 3377-POL) which, inter alia,
contributed to the enactment of the new Energy Law, and in 1988 to the establishment of the new
Energy Sector Regulatory Agency, and which also supported the internal restructuring and
commercialization of PGNiG. This overall strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework
will help Poland achieve compliance with energy sector requirements for EU membership, and
will accelerate the restructuring of PGNiG initiated under the project through compliance with
EU requirements for price transparency and competition.
10.   The project's agreements to raise gas prices were supported by those reached under the
SAL (Ln-32470-POL), and the SECAL. The gas prices to industry were supposed to reach parity
with those in West European countries by December 1992; this was achieved in 1994. For
households, gas prices were supposed to reach industrial prices by December 1991 (achieved in
1992), and then raised to reflect additional delivery costs by December 1995. While this appears
to have been largely achieved, there is some uncertainty concerning the level of additional
delivery costs, since PGNiG did not have the technical capability to accurately calculate the
distribution costs to be allocated to different consumer groups based on the principles of
economic tariff setting. Notwithstanding this, the price increases achieved under the project were
a major achievement for Poland and have undoubtedly resulted in energy conservation at the
consumer level. The Energy Law requires gas prices to be liberalized by the year 2000, which
will further sustain progress towards full cost-based gas pricing.



iv
11.   The project has achieved all its key physical objectives, although at a slower pace than
originally anticipated, and was highly successful in introducing modem gas development and
production technology to PGNiG, and resulted in first arresting, and subsequently reversing the
production decline, and substantially increasing the reserves. The project has partially reached its
institutional reform objective, with the corporatization of PGNiG and the transformation of the
ancillary companies in preparation for eventual spin-off. Without the project, PGNiG would have
needed to seek alternative sources of financing (including from the private sector) to undertake
the same field rehabilitation programs. However, it is highly unlikely that the private sector
would have been interested to participate in this activity due to the age of the fields (some being
40 years old) and their small size, dispersed locations, and uncertain remaining reserves. PGNiG
could have engaged in joint venture programs with private partners to explore new areas earlier
than it did, but Poland is not a highly prospective country for hydrocarbons; even under an
optimistic scenario it would not have attracted enough private investment to achieve the
incremental gas production that was achieved under the project. Neither would the restructuring
of PGNiG have been accelerated, since the slow pace of restructuring was caused primarily by
reasons other than those related to incremental domestic production (para. 8). The project is
expected to generate an economic rate of return very close to that estimated at project appraisal
by yielding sustainable production over its lifetime. The outcome of the project is rated as
satisfactory.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The key findings are: (a) implementation of the restructuring of PGNiG was slow and
only partially accomplished; (b) obtaining right-of-way for construction of well-gathering and
other transmission lines required lengthy negotiations with landowners, which delayed field
production and irreversibly damaged some reservoirs; (c) lack of underground storage and load
management facilities caused periodic shut-in of one third of production for half of the year; (d)
PGNiG field inventory included a number of marginal producing fields which were not
economically viable; (e) PGNiG's inventory included a large number of older shut-in gas wells
without proper abandonment facilities, causing a safety hazard to the environment; (f) the
reluctance of PGNiG to enter into long term gas supply arrangements for potential consumers of
Low Methane Natural Gas (LMNG) inhibited the market development for this gas; and (g)
contracting some of the field operations to highly specialized international contractors improved
field operations through transfer of technology.
13.     The key lessons learned from the project are: (a) setting as a project objective the
implementation of TA restructuring studies for which the results were not known at appraisal,
presupposed acceptance of the results by the borrower, and such major policy reform might have
been better left to a subsequent and separate lending vehicle; (b) effective restructuring of gas
sector entities is more likely if the entities (and not just the government) actively participate in
the TA, so that the entities support the recommendations of the studies; (c) the gas prices
increases achieved under the project were valuable to provide the right economic signals to
consumers and improve the financial situation of the beneficiary; (d) to minimize the difficulties
in obtaining the right-of-way, it is best to reach agreement with land owners prior to well drilling,



v
and use multi-directional and slanted drilling techniques to reduce field development cost; (e) a
load management analysis should be a prerequisite to embarking on a field development
program; (f) frequent and consistent supervision, to large extent by the same Bank team, is a
positive factor in project success; and (g) co-financing with EIB worked well, and benefited from
cooperation and exchange of information between the two institutions throughout project
preparation and implementation, including a number ofjoint missions.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3215-POL)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This report evaluates the implementation of the Energy Resource Development Project,
which was financed by an IBRD loan of US$250 million and EIB confinancing of ECU 50
million. The Borrower was the Polish Oil and Gas Company (PGNiG) and the Guarantor was the
Republic of Poland.
2.    At the time of project appraisal, Poland was still a centrally planned economy facing a
severe economic crisis, which had resulted in a major convertible currency debt problem. The
Government introduced a program in early 1990 aimed at stabilizing the country's
creditworthiness. Under this program, special attention was given to the improvement of energy
efficiency and increased production of domestic natural gas in order to slow the decline in hard
coal available for export -- the country's single largest source of foreign currency earnings. In
1991, Poland's natural gas consumption was about 9.6 billion cubic meters per year (BCMY) of
which 3 BCMY was produced domestically and the remainder imported from Russia. Domestic
production peaked in 1978 at about 8 BCMY and then started to decline due to natural depletion
and insufficient maintenance of the gas fields. This despite the fact that the country had
substantial reserves estimated at about 160 BCM. At the same time, the high level of coal
consumption was making Poland one of the most polluted countries in Europe, with an estimated
470 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions per year. By conserving energy and substituting
natural gas for coal, there would be a marked contribution towards reduction of the severe
environmental problems that Poland had experienced. In order to support the implementation of
its program, the Government of Poland requested Bank's assistance for the project.



2
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve Poland's energy-related convertible
currency earnings by (i) increasing domestic production of natural gas, and (ii) encouraging
energy conservation for all forms of energy and fuel substitution through supporting energy price
reform; (b) contribute to a reduction of environmental pollution related to energy use; and (c)
improve the competitive, regulatory and financial framework of the sector entities by supporting
the implementation of appropriate restructuring programns for the coal, gas, power, lignite and
heat sectors.
4.    In parallel with the project, the BankfUSNDP's Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) was to: (a) implement energy sector restructuring studies2 and (undertake) a
gas pricing study; (b) implement (undertake) studies to optimize further development of the gas
sector and assess its environmental impact; and (c) assist in preparing a contractual framework to
facilitate participation of foreign and domestic private sector enterprises in developing the
petroleum sector.
5.    To meet these objectives, the project's main components consisted of: (a) investments in
equipment and materials to increase the production of natural gas through (i) development and
rehabilitation of existing gas fields; (ii) procurement and installation of field gas compressor
stations; (iii) delineation and evaluation of gas fields discovered in recent years; (iv) expansion of
transmission; (v) development of underground storage facilities to respond to load fluctuations;
and (vi) procurement and installation of gas purification facilities; and (b) technical assistance
through consultancy services, training, and studies.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    The project objectives were consistent with the Government's development priorities and
strongly supported the Government's creditworthiness and sustainable growth program by
reducing the rate of increase in gas imports and curbing environmental pollution. The objectives
were also well aligned with the Bank strategies for sector reforms, pricing policies and reduction
of environmental pollution. However, the intended institutional reforms with respect to gas
sector restructuring within the timescale envisaged proved too ambitious in a country which had
been subjected to centrally-controlled regulations for over forty years, and where measures aimed
at the restructuring of state companies could only be gradually introduced. Nevertheless, the
concepts of enterprise restructuring, price reforms and reform-driven legal frameworks were
supported by the Government of Poland. Likewise, the timescale envisaged to introduce the
major gas price increases for residential consumers proved difficult in a society accustomed to
2 The SAR notes the Government's agreement to implement the restructuring programs for gas
(and other subsectors) starting June 30, 1991, after consultation with the Bank.



3
receiving large state subsidies and where energy price increases, especially to residential
consumers, are politically sensitive.
7.    The project implementation period was originally expected to span from early 1991 to
December 1995, but this proved to be too short, and the implementation period needed to be
extended by two and a half years. The primary cause was a delay in the development of the
Mogilno underground storage (drilling, disposal of salt water, installation of surface facilities),
this being the first storage facility of its type ever constructed in Poland. Delays were also
experienced due to legal difficulties in obtaining access to landowners' properties required for
the construction of key facilities under the project, and poor staffing within PGNiG's Project
Implementation Unit during the first two years of the project. The EIB was able to close out its
loan in 1995 primarily because it financed relatively quick disbursing components such as well
appraisal drilling and field development equipment.
8.    The actual project cost increased from US$616.4 million estimated at appraisal, to
US$708.1 million, which represents an increase of 15%. This was primarily due to: (i) increase
of US$12.9 million for upgrade of seismic equipment and data processing facilities; (ii)
US$166.3 million to cover right of way payments for land and crop compensation (such
payments were not practiced in Poland at the time of appraisal, but had become normal practice
by 1994); and (iii) increase of US$77.9 million for underground storage. These increases were
offset by non-implementation of the gas purification facility (US$28.7 million), and the SCADA
part of the transmission component (US$20.7 million).
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The project was highly successful in introducing modem gas development and production
technology to PGNiG, and contributed to first arresting and then reversing the production
decline, while substantially increasing the reserves. The project generated an economic rate of
return very close to that estimated at project appraisal (35.6% compared to 37.1%). The project
was partially successful in implementing institutional restructuring reform within the timescale
envisaged, but it paved the way for implementing those reforms which are required for EU
accession.
10.   The objective of increasing domestic natural gas production was fully achieved. By the
second year of project implementation (1992), PGNiG had increased its overall gas production
by one third. In 1998, the incremental gas production under the project reached 1.85 BCMY,
about 50% of PGNiG's total domestic output. Without the project, the total gas production in
Poland would have decreased from 3.0 BCMY at the time of appraisal, to 1.9 BCMY by 1997.
When all project drilled wells are put on stream in 1999, the project's contribution to PGNG's
gas production will be about 2.4 BCMY -- about 65% of Poland's total production. The project's
cumulative incremental gas production is expected to reach about 34 BCM (high methane
equivalent) by 2010, exceeding its original estimates by about 17%. An additional 6 BCM is
likely from ongoing field appraisal work initiated under the project. In terms of gas supply and



4
demand, the contribution of the project to Poland's overall gas balance is summarized in Table 1.
The gas production due to the project, as shown in Table 1, represents a constrained production
due to the factors noted in paras. 20-23 below.
Table 1: Poland Gas Supply - Demand Projections
(BCMY)
1991    1997    2000    2005    2010
Gas Demand              9.6    11.4    12.3    15.8    20.9
Domestic Gas Production  3.0    3.7     4.1      5.2    5.2
( - of which from project)    (0)    (1.8)    (2.3)   (1.8)   (1.3)
Gas Imports            6.6      7.7     8.2    10.6    15.7
11.   Without the project, PGNiG would have needed to seek alternative sources of financing
(including from the private sector) to undertake the same field rehabilitation programs. However,
it is highly unlikely that the private sector would have been interested to participate in this due to
the age of the fields (some being 40 years old) and their small size, dispersed locations, and
uncertain remaining reserves. PGNiG could have engaged in joint venture programs with private
partners to explore new areas earlier than it did, but Poland is not a highly prospective country
for hydrocarbons; even under an optimistic scenario it would not have attracted enough private
investments to achieve the incremental gas production that was achieved under the project.
Without the project's incremental gas production, most consumers would have needed to use
coal instead. Based on such displacement of coal (assuming 1% sulfur content), the project is
credited with an annual emissions reduction of about: (a) 250,000 tons of ash; (b) 65,000 tons of
sulfur dioxide; (c) 25,000 tons of nitrogen oxide; (d) 12,000 tons of carbon monoxide; and (e)
250,000 tons of carbon dioxide. The project partially contributed to Poland's overall reduction of
carbon dioxide emissions, which were estimated by recent official publications to be around 360
million tons per year compared to 470 million tons per year at project appraisal. In addition, the
project introduced international best practice in environmental management of PGNiG field
operations and effluent disposal.
12.   The environmental benefits under the project would have been even greater if LMNG had
been used for power generation (para. 23).
13.   The institutional reforms under the project proved too ambitious and the restructuring of
PGNiG was much slower than had been anticipated. This was partly due to the resistance to
restructuring from within PGNiG (from both senior management and the Workers Council; the
latter sought an allocation of shares for employees based on an unrestructured PGNiG, as a
condition for moving ahead with restructuring), and also to lack of decisive action from the
Government. There also appeared to be a reluctance by PGNiG management and Government to
allow any restructuring which might enable Gazexport to gain a meaningful degree of control of
the gas market in Poland. The ESMAP restructuring study (prepared in 1991), had recommended
to create two Exploration and Production companies, a single national transmission company,
and six regional distribution companies, with the privatization phase to follow the restructuring
phase. In fact, a restructuring program for PGNiG was only approved by the Council of Ministers



5
on April 6, 1996. The proposed three-stage process included: (i) transformation of PGNiG into a
state-owned corporation; (ii) commercialization and privatization of the thirteen non-core drilling
and geophysical companies; and (iii) creation of PGN S.A. to be responsible for upstream
prospecting and production, and PGAZ S.A. for downstream activities (transmission, storage and
distribution), both under PGNiG S.A. as a holding company. In 1996, stage (i) of the above
restructuring was carried out. Following this, stage (ii) was partially completed through
transformation of PGNiG's non-core-activities and service companies into limited liability
companies as preparation for spin-off. Substantial improvements were achieved within the
transformed PGNiG, particularly with regard to corporate management, financial performance,
corporate planning and operational skills. An intensive training program allowed PGNiG's field
personnel to acquire proficient operating skills to operate the project's equipment and apply
modem technology.
14.   Under the project, a reservoir policy management study was successfully completed
which helped PGNiG to introduce modem gas reserve management techniques, including
optimized long-term gas field development plans. A number of PGNiG technical staff were sent
to the consultant's headquarters overseas to participate in implementing the study, which proved
to be an effective method for technology and know-how transfer. The experience gained has
enabled PGNiG to design its own reservoir model with independently purchased software. The
overseas technical training program was successful, partly because of early attention to
development of language skills, which proved to be a major contributing factor.
15.   Until the passage of the Geological and Mining Law in 1994, PGNiG had the monopoly
in oil and gas exploration and development. Since then, the Government has adopted very
favorable petroleum exploration and development contractual terms to attract foreign investors in
the upstream activities - as attractive as any other country in Europe. This was deemed necessary
because Poland is not considered a highly prospective country by international comparison, with
only the less prospective areas being made available for exploration by foreign companies (the
most prospective areas were reserved for PGNiG). To date, some thirteen foreign companies
have signed licensing agreements, covering three quarters of Poland's prospective acreage, and
PGNiG has begun to pursue Joint Venture arrangements with foreign companies for exploration
and development within their own reserved areas. Private participation remains insignificant in
the downstream area of gas transmission, storage, and distribution, where PGNiG still holds the
defacto monopoly. The lack of implementing regulations for the gas sector, and the reluctance of
PGNiG management to fully embrace private partnerships, are considered the major reasons for
this.
16.   With regard to gas pricing, under the project the Government gradually increased gas
prices to end-use consumers3. Gas prices to industry were supposed to reach parity with those in
West European countries in 1992, and this was actually achieved in 1994. For residential
consumers, gas prices were supposed to reach industrial prices by December 1991 (achieved in
1992), and then raised to reflect distribution costs by December 1995. However, it is uncertain
3 The gas pricing conditionalities were consistent with those under the 1990 SAL (Ln. 32470-
POL), and the 1991 Heat Restructuring Project's SECAL (Ln. 3377-POL).



6
whether the latter increase was actually achieved, since PGNiG did not have the technical
capability to calculate with accuracy the distribution costs which should be allocated to different
consumer groups based on the principles of economic tariff setting. Gas prices to residential
consumers in Poland are still substantially below those in West Europe4, but the latter were in
any case only intended as a broad benchmark in the absence of adequate data, rather than a
precise target. Notwithstanding this, the price increases achieved during the project for both
industrial and residential users are a major achievement for Poland, and have undoubtedly
resulted in energy conservation at the consumer level.
17.   Under the project, the Bank's dialogue with the Government directly contributed to the
formulation of the Geological and Mining Law which was passed in 1994, as well as the
significant private participation in petroleum and gas exploration which has now been achieved.
The overall reform objectives of the project were consistent with and supported by those sought
under the Heat Supply Project's SECAL (Ln 3377-POL). The latter contributed to the
establishment of the new Energy Sector Regulatory Agency (created under the new Energy Law
of 1998) and also supported the internal restructuring and commercialization of PGNiG. Key
features of the Energy Law related to gas are: (a) the provision of third party access (open access)
in gas transmission for domestic producers; (b) creation of the Energy Sector Regulatory Agency
to oversee the overall development of the energy sector; and (c) gas prices to be set by the
Ministry of Finance until their liberalization in the year 2000. The measures taken to strengthen
the legal and regulatory framework will help Poland achieve compliance with energy sector
requirements for EU membership, and will accelerate the restructuring of PGNiG initiated under
the project due to the compliance with EU requirements for price transparency and competition
in the sector.
18.   The energy sector studies funded by ESMAP in the areas of industry restructuring, gas
pncing, environmental issues in gas development, were all valuable in influencing the
Government's and the Borrower's thinking with regard to formulation of gas-related policy
issues. However, the recommendations of the ESMAP restructuring study have not been fully
implemented to date (see para. 24).
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.   As noted in para. 7, the project suffered a two and a half year delay primarily due to the
longer than anticipated time to develop the Mogilno underground storage facility. A major
difficulty related to the disposal of the brine generated by the leaching process. Dunrng project
appraisal in 1990, the local chemical industry agreed to use the brine as a feedstock for the
production of chlorine and caustic. However, by the time the cavem leaching started in 1993-94,
the chemical industry was affected by the Poland's economic downturn and could not process the
quantity of brine originally planned. The only other means of disposal would have been the
drilling of deep disposal wells, which require much more time than the reduced withdrawal pace
4 Ref. Table 10, Part II - Statistical Tables.



7
by the chemical industry, and PGNiG had no other alternative for accelerating the development
of Mogilno underground gas storage
20.   The biggest obstacle to achieving the sector's optimum domestic gas production capacity
was that PGNiG had to shut in more than one third of the domestic gas production during the
summer months due to the lack of load management and underground gas storage facilities. With
the very low gas demand in the summer and lack of flexibility in gas import contracts, PGNiG
had no alternative but to close down its own production, thereby increasing overall production
cost. At the same time, domestic field deliverability could not meet the high winter gas demand
(25 MMCMD higher than in summer). The higher demand for gas in the winter could only have
been met by domestically produced gas if there been sufficient load management and gas storage
facilities.
21.   Unless PGNiG can accelerate a US$700 million field conversion program which has been
under consideration for several years, lack of underground gas storage capacity is expected to
affect Poland's gas sector for several years to come. While the project made a substantial
contribution towards generating underground gas storage capacity, much more is required. With
the commissioning under the project of 4 cavems out of an ongoing 20 cavem-program, the
limited storage capacity in depleted fields and the ratio of summer gas production capacity to
summer gas demand higher than 3:1, PGNiG can only meet less than one third of its current gas
storage requirements.
22.   Most of the wells drilled since 1991 were subject to lengthy negotiations with landowners
before they could be connected to the gas transmission network. The right-of-way for
construction of well locations and wellhead gathering lines proved to be a major obstacle to the
project as land owners were reluctant to allow gas lines to transit within their properties -- in
spite of fair compensation. Poland's land surface rights laws and regulations require approval of
such land use by municipalities, which in turn require owner consent. The law does not explicitly
provide the terms under which owners can refuse granting the right-of-way. As a result, some of
the landowners simply refused to have gas lines within their properties. This meant that a number
of wells could not be accessed. Several cases were submitted to courts, which ordered
landowners to grant the right-of-way since the underground resources belong to the state and
private landowners are not supposed to deny the state access to these resources. However, most
of court orders were repeatedly appealed against by landowners that continued to refuse access to
the wells. In fact, about one third of the project's productive gas wells, with a production
potential of 1 BCMY, remained closed at the time of the loan closing date.
23.   Due to low energy content and low combustion efficiency of LMNG compared to
HMNG, the marketing of LMNG requires special efforts. When the project's field appraisal
program yielded much more gas reserves than anticipated, a number of industrial and
commercial gas users stated they could use much of the LMNG, if provided with the right
incentives. These incentives would have to include a firm commitment by PGNiG to long-term
delivery contracts and delivery of gas directly to the consumers. However, PGNiG was reluctant
to commit to long term contracts, and so the potential demand for LMNG failed to materialize
and was insufficient to justify the construction of the planned desulfurization plant under the



8
project. In consultation with the Government and the Bank, PGNiG decided not to proceed with
the construction of the desulfurization plant under the project and to use the savings from this for
the underground gas storage component. Nevertheless, the project still managed to meet some of
the objectives related to LMNG development. Through the project, LMNG reserves were
established that could meet potential industrial, residential and commercial demand for LMNG in
the Lower Silesia region, including the conversion from coal and lignite to LMNG of some
existing power plants in this region.
24.   The ESMAP restructuring study was well executed and provided a good blueprint for the
restructuring of PGNiG. However, the study would have benefited through a more active
participation of PGNiG in the study, since this would likely have led to more "ownership" by
PGNiG of the study's final recommendations.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.  It is highly likely that the achievements generated during project implementation will be
maintained throughout the project lifetime (up to 2010), particularly with regard to the major
physical components. The modern gasfield equipment, which was introduced under the project,
was conceived to be productive for the project's lifetime. To ensure proper operations and
maintenance of project financed equipment, all necessary measures were taken by PGNiG to
continue building on the know-how acquired in modem gas technologies under the project's
technical assistance, particularly with regard to technical competence and field operating skills.
26.   Based on the reserves already established, the project's incremental gas production
achievement is highly likely to be sustained throughout the project's lifetime. Some 40 BCM of
recoverable gas reserves were established under the project, of which about 34 BCM can be
considered as proven and an additional 6 BCM still under appraisal. New reserve management
techniques, introduced under the project, will further support the sustainability of gas production
by substantially improving the gas field deliverability and optimizing the overall gas reserve
recovery. The project's incremental gas production, currently at 1.85 BCMY, is scheduled to
increase to about 2.4 BCMY in 1999, when all gas wells financed under the project are put into
production.
27.  Improved load management capability, including underground gas storage capacity, is
required to ensure the long-term sustainability of the project's gas production capability. To date,
the only underground gas storage development that has proceeded satisfactorily is the Mogilno
underground gas storage facility under the Bank financed project. The development of the other
underground gas storage facilities, particularly those in the depleted gas fields of Wierzchowice
and Husow, needs to quickly get underway to address the load management problems associated
with the seasonal fluctuations.
28.   The sustainability of the project's achievement in reducing environmental emissions
through displacement of coal by natural gas, could well exceed the appraisal estimate. The high
level of environmental pollution experienced by Poland over recent years, particularly from the



9
atmospheric emissions of potentially harmful pollutants derived from the use of coal, increased
the importance of economic substitution by natural gas and other clean fuels. New environmental
protection regulations were issued in 1994, which will further support the project's
environmental pollution reduction objective. However, the sustainability of reduced
environmental pollution is based on the assumption that the necessary infrastructure for gas
deliveries (e.g., gas storage facilities) will be made available to meet the seasonal demand.
29.   With regard to gas sector restructuring, the project objectives were too ambitious within
the timescale originally envisaged. To date, stage one has been completed and stage two partially
completed. However, it is highly likely that significant further and sustainable progress will be
made on the restructuring in the near future, since the Government is committed to transparency
and competition in the gas sector to meet the European Union's (EU) accession requirements, in
particular the EU Gas Directive (98/30/EC). This will require the gas industry to adopt a
structure which is transparent between the core activities of Exploration and Production, gas
transmission, storage and distribution, and which differentiates between the cost of the
commodity and the cost of service in gas transactions. It will also require PGNiG to substantially
open the gas markets to competition. With regard to gas pricing, it is noted that the Energy Law
requires gas prices to be liberalized by the year 2000 when responsibility for overseeing gas
prices will pass from the Ministry of Finance to the Energy Sector Regulatory Agency. This
should ensure sustainability in progressing toward reaching gas prices which ensure full cost
recovery. Also, Poland has become a signatory of both the European Energy Charter and the
European Energy Charter Treaty.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   The Bank carried out project identification, preparation and appraisal in a comprehensive
and satisfactory manner. Continuity in the composition of the project team was maintained during
the implementation phase. This resulted in consistency in recommendations to the Borrower
regarding the execution of the physical and institutional components of the project as well as
regarding the sector reforn agenda.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
31.   The performance of the Borrower was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal
and implementation. Despite the delay in project implementation, once implementation got
underway the Borrower took strong ownership of all matters related to the project.
32.   The performance of PGNiG as implementer of the project was satisfactory. Staff and local
currency funds were made available on time and training schedules covered all the necessary
disciplines required for carrying out the technical tasks for the project.
33.   In the years covered by the SAR forecast (1991 to 1996), the company achieved a net
profit in each year except 1996, ranging from US$118 million (1992) to US$126 million



10
equivalent (1995). However, the true picture was masked by de facto subsidies received from the
Government through release of payment obligations for imported Jamburg gas (about US$160
million per year), without which the financial performance of PGNiG would have been very
poor. The net loss in 1996 was mainly due to higher depreciation charges caused by an almost
fourfold revaluation of assets during the previous year as well as high exploration and
maintenance costs. Net internal cash generation was sufficient each year to cover a substantial
portion of PGNiG's investment program, and the covenanted "Contribution to Investment Ratio"
of not less than 30% was fulfilled throughout project execution. Additionally, the Debt Service
Coverage Ratio ranged from to 9.5 times the debt service (1991) to 2.1 times (1996) against a
covenanted target of 1.3 times, which is satisfactory.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project has achieved its major
physical objectives and is highly likely to maintain satisfactory results. The incremental domestic
gas production and enhanced underground storage capacity achieved by the project has helped
slow down the rate of Poland's increasing dependence on gas imports. Without the project's
incremental gas production, consumers would have needed to use coal instead, which would have
led to increased polluting emissions in Silesia and Western Poland. In addition, the project made
significant contributions to Poland's energy sector reform agenda. During project
implementation, the Bank's dialogue with the Government directly contributed to the formulation
of the Geological and Mining Law, as well as the increased private participation achieved in
petroleum and gas exploration. The overall reform objectives of the project were consistent with
and supported by those under the SAL and the SECAL, including the successful raising of gas
prices to industrial and residential consumers, and the internal restructuring and
commercialization of PGNiG.
35.   While the project contributed to Poland's domestic gas production, the country continues
to be dependent on Russian imports to meet demand. Gas consumption is expected to increase
sharply in the next 5-10 years driven by the need for natural gas for power generation (including
CHP) plants. Therefore, in spite of the recent important discoveries of both gas and oil in
Western Poland, gas imports are likely to increase over the medium term. To this end, Poland is
pursuing development of the Yamal gas project which will transport gas from Russia to Western
Europe. The EUROPOLGAZ company has been set up to develop the Polish section of the
project (with participation from PGNiG, Gazprom, and private sponsors) and the project would
make substantial volumes of gas available for use in Poland. PGNiG is also actively seeking to
diversify its import sources through new import arrangements with producers such as Norway
and the Netherlands.
I. FUTURE PROJECT OPERATION
36.   The project established sufficient gas reserves to sustain the projected gas production
from existing fields. No additional investment would be required to produce the established gas
reserves except for improved load management facilities including underground storage capacity



11
expansion. In this regard, PGNiG agreed to: (i) continue Mogilno's first phase development,
consisting of increasing the number of caverns to twenty by the year 2010; and (ii) accelerate the
conversion of the depleted gas field, Wierzchowice, into a large gas storage facility. To
maximize the project's benefits, PGNiG agreed to take all the necessary measures to promote the
use of LMNG, particularly for the power sector.
37.   Implementation of policy requirements for effective operation and maintenance of the
project, initiated in 1996, is expected to continue as part of the Government's commitment to
restructure the gas sector to meet the conditions for accession to the EU.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.     The key lessons learned from the project are: (a) setting as a project objective the
implementation of TA restructuring studies for which the results were not known at appraisal,
presupposed acceptance of the results by the borrower/beneficiary, and such major policy reformn
might have been better left to a subsequent and separate lending vehicle; (b) effective
restructuring of sector entities is more likely if the entities (and not just the Government) actively
participate in the TA, so that the entities support the recommendations of the studies; (c) the gas
price increases achieved under the project were valuable to provide the right economic signals to
consumers and improve the financial situation of the beneficiary; (d) to minimize the difficulties
in obtaining the right-of-way, it is best to reach agreement with land owners prior to well drilling,
and use multi-directional and slanted drilling techniques to reduce field development cost; (e) a
load management analysis should be a prerequisite to embarking on a field development
program; (f) frequent and consistent supervision, to large extent by the same Bank team, is a
positive factor in project success; and (g) co-financing with EIB worked well, and benefited from
cooperation and exchange of information between the two institutions throughout project
preparation and implementation, including a number of joint missions.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3215-POL)
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES



13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT
A. Achievement of      Substantial     Partial     Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                  Applicable
Macro Policies                                                          X
Sector Policies                              X
Financial Objectives                                                    X
Institutional Development                    X
Physical Objectives            X
Poverty Reduction                                                       X
Gender Issues                                                           X
Other Social Issues                                                     X
Environmental Issues            X
Public Sector Management                                   X
Private Sector Management                                               X
B. Project Sustainability     Likely           Unlikely      |   Uncertain
C. Bank Performance         Highly
Satisfactory                          Deficient
Identification                                      X
Preparation Assistance                              X
Appraisal                        X
Supervision                      X
D. Borrower Performance       Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                         X
Implementation                   X
Covenant Compliance              X
E. Assessment of Outcome    Highly                                   Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory
X



14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
There were no prior Bank Loans in the sector
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIME TABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                        Planned Date          Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  September 1987          January 1988
Pre-Appraisal                                                       September 1989
Appraisal                                                           February 1990
Negotiations                                                        May 1990
Board Presentation                                                  June 1990
Signing                                                             June 1990
Effectiveness                                                       November 1990
Project Completion                            December 31, 1995   June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                                  June 30, 1996         June 30, 1998
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
FY (Cumulative)           1990   1991   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
IBRD   Appraisal estimate    0.0    23.4   71.6   127.0  179.7  225.5  250.0  250.0  250.0  250.0
Actual (*)                19.3   54.0   147.2  170.2  174.1  192.5  206.2  244.8  248.2
Actual as % of
estimate                  82.5   75.4   115.9   94.7   77.2   77.0   82.5   97.9   99.3
Last Disbursement                                                                     9/98
EIB    Appraisal estirnate
(**)                             _ _ _ __                _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _
Actual (*)                 0.0    12.9   30.6   34.0   51.9   63.4
Actual as % of
estimate
(*) FY91 disbursement FY91 includes Special Account (US$17.0 million)
(**) No separate disbursement estimate was made for this loan at appraisal



15
TABLE 5: PGNiG PERFORMANCE INDICATORS'
[Year                                            I       19911        19921        1993        19941        1995|        19961        19971        1998
PGNIG CORPORATION
total gas to system (BCM)                                9.64         9.18        9.27         9.37        10.43        10.96        11.38        11.93
- of which: imports                                     6.61         6.24         5.28        5.81         6.77         7.35         7.68         8.21
: local production (HM+LM)                       3.03         2.94        3.79         3.56         3.66         3.61        3.70         3.72
No. of Employees                                       42,536       41,848      43,919       44,319       45,346       46,546      47,300
- of which: in production                               6,892        6,669       6,628        6,661        6,693        6,919       5,830        5,850
in exploration and field serivces              9,717        8,923        8,995        8,866       8,775        8,748        9,117
in transm and distribution                     19,263      21,308       22,261      23,389       24,638       26,346       27,321       27,505
- sales per employee (total gas 100OM3/employee in corp)  226.63    219.36      211.07       211A2        230.00       235A6       240.59
- of which for: exploration and development          143,437.6    178,248.1    194,874.6    203,832.4    231,356.2    229,927.7    176,298.5    174,363.1
: production                               31,465.6     30,790.1    43,560.2     58,423.9     78,328.7     79,176.7    75,926.6     63,375.8
unit production costs (US$/IWOOM3)                      46.7         57.2         51.9        60.8         69.2         70.0         55.9         51.7
- of which for: exploration and development              38.3        48.8         42.4         47.2         51.7         52.0        39.1         37.9
: production                                    8.4         8.4          9.5         13.5         17.5         17.9         16.8        13.8
- productivity (O00OM3/employee in production)          543.4        548.1       693.3        648.0        668.2        638.6       774.3        786.1
local production costs (in US$1000)                 174,903.2    209,038.2    238,434.8    262,256.3    309,684.9    309,104.4    252,225.1    237,738.9
TRANSMISSION and DISTRIBUTION
- supply interruptions                                    176          46            9            8            1          31            0          n.a.
- length of T&D system (km)                          67,265.0     76,575.0     83,672.9     90,858.0    95,700.0    100,496.3    104,729.5         n.a.
- interruptions/lOOOkm                                  2.617        0.601       0.108        0.088        0.010        0.308       0.000          n.a.
- annual losses including own uses (mln M3)             588.3        546.8       880.4        594.5        190.3       1041.3        434.2         n.a.
-losses including own uses (100OM3/km)                  8.746        7.141       10.522       6.543        1.989       10.362        4.146         n.a.
- losses including own uses (%)                         5.716        5.569       8.838        5.931        1.712        9.018        3.621         na..
gas sales (B M3 of HM+LM gas)                            9.04         8.63        8.39         8.77        10.23         9.96        10.98        11.23
- of which to households (BCM)                           4.47         4.32        4.22         4.20         4.23         4.00         4.20        4.58
number of customers (000)                               6,005        6,202       6,351        6,475        6,500        6,639        6,705        6,771
- of which household consumers (000)                    5,877        6,072       6,190        6,330        6,435        6,508        6,570        6,632
- of which industrial and other customers                128          130          161          145          65          131          135          139
- consumption per customer (in 1000 M3)               1,745.88    1,571.11     1,469.75     1,434.42    1,589.28     1,478.74     1,576.93     1,659.19
- sales (100OM3/employee in T&D)                       544.26       457.29      419.32       397.11       419.28       372.65       387.02      408.47
- ratio (customers/employee in T&D)2                   311.74       291.06      285.30       276.84       263.82       252.00       245.43      246.18
PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION (in PJ)                      4,110        4,060       4,113        3,990        4,084        4,515        4,303         n.a.
- of which: solid fuels                               3,200        3,150        3,102        2,954       3,140        3,379        3,133          n.a.
liquid fuels                                   560          580         625          650          560          733          768          n.a.
gas fuels                                      350          330         335          341          375          400         402          n.a.
gas fuels (%)                                  8.5          8.1          8.2         8.5          9.2          8.9          9.3         n.a.
Notes:
1.  All volumes quoted as HMNG equivalent.
2. Increase of employees in T+D due to progressive expansion of residential consumer base and higher network maintenance.



Gas nstflOulof
SUCwdlarY
BO Gowaft
IlGPS            - h                                                    - rz                     --
. S~~~~~~~~~~Warsziw
GP 2>do         .     __          Cttaeol7 iP se           -
GeophysicaL E-tpcratn
! Gas F2cs Recuir  1                            |   -        ~~~~~~-E.rakow_
i    rs   n vrdw                                                                        . ,    . -,.
GaopLtyslcai Exploratioa
GP ROW              L                                           |    G$OP;n.Ca-TOrML
UPP Sksa GC
GP C$O              v    I                                       I    Entprise-  _  :
i   "  I   b ilZ D           j,        Iaanu sand ,DailUl     , _Ing
*-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eirs Za                                     Sao
,  Explaicu and Drillinr.
-ai. ntse - Kra-.w
GP~
E=ciarati  and Dniling-
-   ,  I !     - Di*;butOn3sbq                           er2s  -Wol    m
GP ChO  s..  
________________    C1~~~oJ~~fpf~e          J           E-Iormonn   and  Dr!fling
Eatrpise - Pila
.                        ~~~~~~~~~>
Gas PrcductonEnterpnse   __
-Sanok
CGas Producion Ent-eris- 
GP S n               4    t       @ escral Roiand G45     r |    [               -K(rcsno
!    Dmunduon E-Mm                                                                            M- O > 
GP K26szLjtQ        >..^  
|    Gas Production Ent.-imse                  0. >----:/j
|    !         ~~~~-Zleloaa Gcra     !            :       /
~~~ez1sn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
G~~~~~~~parS -h - ,nGas  >g"   
G  Jdansk rns
t Gas   ducs niG                              ..                                                                                          H
| Gimr and Surfc Fadhes
A -     WA erlaro-Zabze-, ,,, t'
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Fi   euwdpnwnt E.tprmiso.-
G? ICoi h |                                          _  _  _     _  _  _  _ -   _    
., ,                                                                                I                                   0 
G. s:gm       hleull.I.                                              z
_____________  . . . uaon  ~rp                 L |.and RcpaJr U KIr
VN*x=  a6   *-1 
GP1 . , ;.:, W ~~~~~~~~~Gsa. an . Tnacak iUe
Trurk-A-Repaipm-arz
III
GP Lu5m             _l 
G'g Fusa            L                                             t       GEVtA  W-2a



17
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study        Purpose as Defined at               Status          T              Impact
_   _  _  _           Appraisal         I                            I       .   _I
l ESMAP      Implement energy sector     Study has been carried out.  Restructuring of the gas sector has
restructuring studies and a gas                          started. Price adjustments have been
pricing study.                                           implemented.
ESMAP        Implement studies to optimize  Study has been carried out.
further development of the gas
sector and assess the
environmental impact
ESMAP        Assist in preparing a       Study has been carried out and a  After approval of a geological and
contractual framework to   contractual framework prepared   mining law in 1994, procedures for
facilitate participation of  in 1992                     foreign participation in petroleum
foreign and domestic private                             exploration/development have been
sector enterprises in                                    conceived and licensing started
developing the petroleum
sector
LNG          Detailed design of LNG      Study was not carried out    Discussions were held with Statoil
facilities if import of LNG is                           but import of LNG was not found
found to be economical                                   economical
MIS          Introduce a suitable        Requirements for financial,  Computer systems and software were
Management Infornation      accounting,                  acquired for all functions and are
System (MIS), study of a data  production/transmission and  fully operational. Dedicated stations
processing master plan     sales, human resources computer  and software were installed and are
based administration were    being used regularly by the Borrower
carried out by PGNiG. A study   for evaluation of reserves based on
on reservoir management was    SSI technology
done by SSI (Scientific Software
Intercomp, UK)
Additional    Supplies of natural gas up to    Ministry of Industry and Trade    Used for economic evaluation of the
the year 2010                                            project
Additional    Legal procedures for the   Anti Monopoly Office         Used in policy dialogue for PGNiG
division of the Polish Oil and                           restructuring
Gas Company
Additional    Laws for the public enterprise   Ministry of Industry and Trade    Used in policy dialogue for PGNiG
Polish Oil and Gas Company                               restructuring
Additional    Environmental perspectives    Study by Brocoff, Jack C.  Used in environmental policy
(World Bank energy 1 &2                                  dialogue
projects)
Desulphuri-  Study on technologies for   Study by Lurgi (Germany)     Results used in design of
zation       removal of H2S and CO2 from                              desulphurization plants
natural gas



18
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Estimiate at Appraisal             Actual
local   foreign   total     local    foreign    total
COSTS
Seismic*                                0.0     28.8    28.8        166.3      41.7    208.0
Gas Production                        172.0    149.5   321.5        154.4    173.7    328.1
- Infill Development and Compression  131.0     99.5   230.5        121.6    159.4    281.0
- Appraisal Drilling and Evaluation of  41.0    50.0    91.0         32.8     14.3     47.1
Recent Discoveries
- Gas Treatment/Sulphur Recovery       10.0     18.7    28.7          0.0      0.1       0.1
Transmission and Distribution          54.5      55.7   110.2        74.4      92.1    166.5
-Molgino Underground Storage           19.3     13.9    33.2         47.5     63.6    111.1
- SCADA**                               6.7     14.0    20.7          0.4      1.4       1.8
- Transmission                         25.5     22.0    47.5         24.5     23.7      48.2
-Compression                            3.0      5.8      8.8         2.0      3.4       5.4
Technical Assistance and Training       2.7       6.1      8.8        1.4       4.0      5.4
- Physical Contingencies 5%            12.0     13.1    25.1          0.0      0.0       0.0
- Price Contingencies at 4.4 %/year    45.5     47.8    93.3          0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Contingencies                    57.5      60.9   118.4         0.0       0.0      0.0
(*) The foreign cost component increased from US$ 28.8 million to US$ 41.7 million due to: (i)
an upgrade of seismic equipment from low to high resolution, and (ii) the requirement for two
new data processing centers for high resolution seismic which were not foreseen at the time of
appraisal. The local cost of US$166.3 million was needed to cover land and crop compensation
payments. Such payments were not practiced in Poland at the time of appraisal, but had become
normal practice by 1994.
(**) During 1993, a feasibility study for the SCADA system was completed by consultants
(British Gas), which concluded that required investments of US$87 million would be needed,
compared to US$20.7 estimated at appraisal. After this, PGNiG decided it would be a more
economic solution to use the facilities offered by existing system operators, PPGC and Polish
Telecom Company (TPSA), with PGNiG financing the fiber optic connections to the system
from its own resources. In 1994 the funds for the SCADA were reallocated to storage.



19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Estimate at appraisal   |     Actual
local  foreign  total    local   foreign   total
IBRD                               0.0   250.0  250.0       0.0   248.2   248.2
EIB (ECU 50.0 million equivalent)  0.0    60.0   60.0       0.0    63.4    63.4
PGNiG                            296.7     9.7  306.4     396.5     0.0   396.5
TABLE 9: GAS PRICE LEVELS
(in US$/1000"'3 of 8200 kcallm3, all prices without VAT)
Industrial Consumers                Household Consumers
Costs             Prices          Prices    Distrib.      Margin
Over Cost to
Year    Prod. & trans.   Poland   W. Europe   Poland       Costs      Industry
1990             n.a.      77.35     116.38      15.09      n.a.         -62.26
1991           79.10      130.08     132.59      62.70    21.13          -67.38
1992           77.30      123.10     131.28    130.53     20.59            7.43
1993           83.90      115.05     118.55    136.52    29.30            21.47
1994          105.90      122.34     118.70    141.36      31.10          19.02
1995          100.95      130.62     131.08    174.33     37.98           43.71
1996          113.33      136.29     126.80    181.99      51.87**        45.70
1997          101.83      127.28     123.21     167.02    35.17           39.74
1998*          105.00     137.06      121.93    180.26     34.70          43.20
Based on information from "Energy Prices and Taxes" 1st quarter 1998. All prices without VAT.
* Forecast.
* Distribution costs 1996 contained extra costs for the change-over from town gas and coke gas
to High Methane Natural Gas in several towns.
Notes:
1) Gas prices for industrial consumers in Poland should have reached those for W. European
industry by December 31, 1992. This was actually achieved by 1994.
2) Prices for household consumers were to reach those paid by Polish industrial consumers by
December 31,1991. This was achieved in 1992. Prices for household consumers were to reach
levels exceeding those for domestic industry by a margin sufficient to cover distribution costs by
December 31, 1995. This was achieved.
3) Prices for households in 1998 were around 45% of those in W. Europe.



20
TABLE 10: ECONOMic EVALUATION
BASE CASE
(At Appraisal)
YEAR                       Total   1990  1991   1992   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
INVESTMENT(US$                498      0   81.4  123.5  114.7  97.3  81.1
million)
BENEFITS
Gas(BCM)                     29.04     0      0    0.17    1.3  1.83   1.92   2.36   2.27   2.11   1.94    1.8  1.65    1.6  1.55    1.5  1.44   1.32    1.2  1.15   0.98   0.95
Condensate (000 tons)         370      0      0      0      0      0      0    40    39    36    33    30    28    25    23    21            19    18    16    15    14    13
OUTPUT VALUE
Gas ($/1000 M3)                        0    80      80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80
Condensate ($/ton)                     0    135    135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   135
Total Benefits (US$ million)    2373.2   0.0   0.0   13.6  104.0  146.4  153.6  194.2  186.9  173.7  159.7  148.1  135.8  131.4  127.1  122.8  117.8  108.0  98.2  94.0  80.3  77.8
NetBenefits(US$million)     1875.2   0.0  -81.4  -109.9  -10.7  49.1  72.5  194.2  186.9  173.7  159.7  148.1  135.8  131.4  127.1  122.8  117.8  108.0  98.2  94.0  80.3  77.8
Project IRR                 37.1%
ACTUAL CASE
(At Conclusion)
YEAR                       Total   1990  1991   1992   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
INVESTMENT (US$million)    708.1       0   80.6  124.2  130.1  86.6  64.8  64.8  87.5  69.5
BENEFITS
gas (BCM)                    31.50   0.00   0.01    0.29   0.76   1.01   1.50   1.70   1.77   1.85   2.41   2.31   2.20   2.10   2.06   1.93   1.84   1.75   1.66   1.56   1.46   1.33
condensate (000 tons)       783.10   0.00   0.00    8.00  13.10  18.50  12.70  36.30  31.00  26.50  35.00  45.00  44.00  60.00  58.00  58.00  57.00  57.00  56.00  55.00  56.00  56.00
undergr. gas storage (BCM)                                                                0.143  0.185  0.251  0.337  0.422  0.422  0.422  0.422  0.422  0.422  0.422  0.422  0.422
oil (000 tons).                                                                                  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0
OUTPUT VALUE
Gas ($/1000 M3)                        0   87.3  115.1  101.7  94.6  98.1  102.3  96.1    95    95    95    95    95    95    95    95    95    95    95    95    95
Condes($/ton)                          0   187    158   140   131   139   162   156   156   156   156   156-  156   156   156   156   156   156   156   156   156
Storage($/1000 M3)                                                                           70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70
Oil ($/ton)                                                                                         60    60    60    60    60    60    60    60    60    60    60    60
Total Benefits (US$million)    4013.4   0.0   0.9   34.6  79.1  98.0  148.9  179.8  174.9  189.9  292.3  289.0  284.5  283.4  279.3  266.9  258.2  249.7  241.0  231.3  222.0  209.6
NetBenefits (US$million)    3305.3   0.0  -79.7  -89.6  -51.0  11.4  84.1  115.0  87.4  120.4  292.3  289.0  284.5  283.4  279.3  266.9  258.2  249.7  241.0  231.3  222.0  209.6
Project IRR                 35.6%
Notes:
Additional gas sales from the Mogilno UGS are calculated as the product of yearly storage volume times the price differential between the average gas sales price and gas import price.
Sales of oil discovered tinder the project and starting in 1999 are taken into consideration: it is assumed that 750,000 tons will be produced annually.



21
TABLE 11: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement       Text     Covenant  Status    Original       Revised      Description of Covenant   Comments
Reference    Class             Fulfill Date   Fulfill Date                        lIl
Loan         3.02 (a)       10         C        n.a.          n.a.      Borrower to employ        Consultants were employed
consultants
Loan         3.02 (b)        10        C        n.a.          n.a.      Borrower to maintain      Coordinating Unit was
Coordinating Unit         maintained
Loan         3.03           10         C        n.a.          n.a.      Procurement to be         Procurement was carried out
governed by Schedule 4    as per schedule 4
Loan         4.01            5         C        n.a.          n.a.      Borrower to operate under   Sound standards were
sound standards           maintained throughout
implementation
Loan         4.02            5         C        n.a.          n.a.      Borrower to operate plants   Plants, machinery and
and machinery with sound    equipment were in good
practices                 working order
Loan         4.03            5         C        n.a.          n.a.      Borrower to take out      Insurance was taken out
insurance                 where appropriate
Loan         5.01 (a)        1         C        n.a.          n.a.      Borrower to maintain      Adequate records and
(i)                                                       records and accounts to   accounts were maintained
adequately reflect
operations and financial
condition
Loan         5.01 (a)        I         C      12/31/91        n.a.      Borrower to apply         Such accounting practices
(ii)                                                      accounting practices for gas  were applied
exploration activities to
which the Bank agrees
Loan         5.01 (b)        I         C      from start     yearly     Borrower to have yearly   Audits were performed as
(i)                             of project                audits of financial        requested
statements and special
accounts
Loan         5.01 (b)        1         C      from start     yearly     Borrower to send copies of   Such copies were received,
(ii)                            of project                audit reports to Bank within  sometimes with delays (not
seven months of end of    exceeding 30 days)
fiscal year
Loan         5.01 (b)        1         C      from start    when re-    Borrower to supply         Such information was made
(iii)                           of project    quested     additional financial      available when requested
information
Loan         5.01 (c)        1         C      from start   continuously   Borrower to maintain and    Such records and accounts
of project                retain records/accounts in    were maintained and
respect of all withdrawals   retained
from Loan Account
Loan         5.02 (a)        I         C      from F/Y       yearly     Borrower to generate funds  Internal cash generation of
1991                   from internal sources      30% was achieved at all
equivalent to at least 30%    times.
of 3 year average capital
expenditures
Loan         5.02 (b)        1         C       before        yearly     Borrower to review        Forecasts were received
Sept/30                  compliance with ref 5.02    timely
(a)
Loan         5.02 (c)        1         C        na            n.a.      Borrower to take measures   Situation did not occur
_F ~___________   __________   _________   _______   __________to  ensure meeting  5.02 (a)
Table 12 continued overleaf



22
TABLE 11: Status of Legal Covenants
(Continued)
Agreement       Text      Covenant  Status    Original  1   Revised   1  Description of Covenant   Comments
I Reference    Class              Fulfill Date   Fulfill Date   _
Loan          5.03 (a)        1         C      from start   continuously   Borrower not to incur debt   Condition was met at all
of project                 unless net revenues are at   times
least 1.3 times max. debt
service
Guarantee     3.01 (a)        2         C      by Dec 31,                 Gas prices for local       This condition was met from
1992                    industrial consumers to be    1994 onwards
equivalent to those for ind.
consumers in EC by
December 31, 1992
Guarantee     3.01 (b)        2        CP      by Dec 3 1,                Gradually adjust gas prices   The first level was reached
1991                    for households to reach    during 1992, the second
by Dec 31,                 those for industrial       level by 1995.
1995                    consumers by December
31,1991 and later (by
December 31, 1995) also
cover additional
distribution costs
Guarantee     3.01 (c)        2        CP      from Nov    at six month   Guarantor to review with   Reviews were held and
30, 1990      interval    Bank measures to meet      actions were taken although
3.01 (a,b)                 full price implementation
lagged
Guarantee     3.02 (a)        5         C       by Dec                    Guarantor to carry out     Studies carried out by
31,1990                   studies on restructurization   Cooper Lybrand
of energy sector
Guarantee     3.02 (b)        5         C         n.a.          n.a.      Afford time for review of    Time was afforded and
these studies by Bank and    studies were discussed
Borrower
Guarantee     3.02 (c)        5        CP    by June 30,                  Initiate implementation of    Recommendations were
1991                    3.02 (a,b)                 implemented only partially,
restructuring is continuing in
gas, power, district heating
and coal sectors.
Covenant class:                                 Status:
1 = Account/audits                            C = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue              CP = Covenant partially complied with
generation from beneficiaries               TS = Temporarily suspended



23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rafing2)
Stage of Project    Month/  No. of  Days in                       Implementation  Development P3
Cycle           Year   Persons   Field    Specialization1)        Status        Objectives   Problems3
Through appraisal       10/89      12       22         Multiple
Appraisal-Board
Approval
Board Approval-
Effectiveness
Supervision I           11/90      2        9            N,N
Supervision II          3/91       2        3            N,N                1               1
Supervision III         6/91       4        7           F,N,N               2               1           T,M
Supervision IV          12/91      1        2             N                 2               1            P
Supervision V           5/92       3        13          F,N,N               2               2            T
Supervision VI          12/92      3        14          F,N,N               2               2           M,T
Supervision VII         4/93       3        18          F,N,N               2               2           M,T
Supervision VIII        5/93       3        18          F,N,N               2               2M,T
Supervision IX          4/94       4         8         F,N,N,N              2               2          M,T,P
Supervision X           10/94      4        13         F,N,N,N              2               2           M,T
Supervision X!          5/95       4        12         F,N,N,N              2               2           M,T
Supervision XII         3/96       4        12         F,N,N,N              2               2           M,T
Supervision XIII        10/96      1        2             F                 2               2           M,T
Supervision XIV         5/97       2        6            F,N                2               2           M,T
Supervision XV          9/97       2         6           F,N                2               2           M,T
Supervision XVI         5/98       2        4            F,N                2               2           M,T
Implementation          10/98      3        12          F,N,N
Completion            ___I
I) - Specialisation                     2) - Performance Rating            3) - Type of Problems
E = Economist                            I = Minor or No Problems           F = Financial
F = Financial Analyst                    2 = Moderate Problems              P = Procurement
N  Engineer                              3 = Major Problems                 T = Technical
S = Energy Specialist                                                       M = Managerial



24
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUT
Stage of             Planned              Revised             Actual
Project Cycle    Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks  US$ '000  Weeks   US$ '000
Through
Appraisal                                                  80.5      161.9
Negotiations to
Effective                                                  33.8       77.9
Supervision      > 90.0                                   201.7      646.3
Completion *       13.5     60.5                           13.5       38.0
TOTAL           > 103.5     60.5       0.0      0.0       329.5      924.1
* until October 30, 1998



APPENDIX A
POLISH OIL AND GAS COMPANY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3215-POL)
Warsaw, October 30,1998



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3215-POL
Prepared by:             Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo S.A. (PGNiG)
Project Name:            Energy Resource Development Project
Loan Number:             3215 - POL
Signature Date:          July 02, 1990
Total Loan Amount:       USD 250,000,000
Co-financing:            European Investment Bank
Finance Contract No. 1.4746
Signature Date:          July 30, 1990
Total loan Amount:       ECU 50,000,000



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
PAGE
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                           1
B. IMPLEMENTION OF OBJECTIVES                                   2
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MAIN FACTORS IMPACTING
SUCH IMPLEMENTATION                                          2
Cl  Project organization                                  2
C2   Procurement                                          2
C3   Technical assistance and training                    3
C4   Development and production                           4
C5   Mogilno gas storage                                  10
C6   SCADA                                                I1
C7   PGNiG Restructurization                              12
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                       13
E. EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE                             13
F. EVALUATION OF PGNiG's PERGORMANCE                            13
G. EVALUATION OF RESULTS                                        14
H. CONCLUSIONS/LESSONS                                          15



Appendix A
Page 1 of 15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
ENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3215-POL
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Project were as follows:
(a)   Improve the energy related convertible currency earnings of Poland by:
* increasing domestic production of natural gas; and
* encouraging energy conservation for all forms of energy and fuel substitution through
supporting energy price reform.
(b)   Contribute to a reduction of environmental pollution related to energy use; and
(c)   improve the competitive, regulatory and financial framework of the sector entities by
supporting the implementation of appropriate restructuring programs for the gas sector.
In parallel with the Project, the Bank/UNDP's Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) was provided to:
(a)   implement energy sector restructuring studies and a gas pricing study;
(b)   implement studies to optimize further development of the gas sector and assess its
environmental impact; and
(c)   assist in preparation of a contractual framework to facilitate participation of foreign and
domestic private sector enterprises in developing the petroleum sector.



Appendix A
Page 2of 15
B. IMPLEMENTATION OF OBJECTIVES
The Project fulfilled its main objectives. It enabled PGNiG to increment gas and oil
production mostly as a result of a replacement of equipment for exploration, drilling, seismics,
geophysics, workover and extensive training program. This allowed PGNiG improve efficiency of
operations and the quality of offered services. The Project also enabled PGNiG to perform
important studies on the gas sector restructuring in Poland as well to start introduction of tariff
changes.
The Project contributed to reduction of environmental pollution related to energy use by the
means of:
* increased use of natural gas instead of other more pollutant fuels; and
* using the latest technology equipment bought under the Project, that meets the strictest world
environmental standards.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MAIN FACTORS IMPACTING SUCH
IMPLEMENTATION
C 1. Project organization
The loan agreements with the World Bank and the European Investment Bank were signed
by PGNiG (as the borrower) and the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Polish Government (as the
guarantor) in 1990.
On December, 31, 1990, World Bank Project and Foreign Relations Bureau (BOBS) was
established for the implementation of the project . The bureau reported directly to the General
Director. Special units or plenipotentiaries for WB/EIB Project were established in PGNiG
enterprises.
C 2. Procurement
BOBS was responsible for coordination of:
* preparation of tender documents,
* evaluation of tenders,
* contract preparation and negotiations,
* financial settlements,
. reporting.
BOBS realised procurement under the loans according to "Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". Procurement covered i.e. equipment for seismics, drilling, testing
and materials for fields exploration and development. The loan financed also the engineering design
and construction of the surface installation of the underground gas storage in Mogilno.



Appendix A
Page3of 15
Most of the procurement was carried out under International Competitive Bidding
Procedures.
Tenders became a common practice leading to competition among suppliers/contractors and
this had an advantageous impact upon the prices, the performance, and the contracted completion
dates.
We have to add that all of these procedures were introduced by PGNiG for the Project a few
years before a state law on Public Procurement had been established.
Special account in Bank Handlowy w Warszawie - London Branch was opened for financial
service of the World Bank loan (transfers, letters of credit), through which payments up to 4 million
dollars were executed. Payments exceeding this amount were made directly by the World Bank,
upon presentation of documents issued by BOBg.
Special account in Bank Handlowy International in Luxembourg was opened to financial
service of the European Investment Bank loan.
C3. Technical Assistance/Training
Due to the fact that PGNiG did not provide comprehensive training for its employees due to
lack of funds to introduce new methods and technologies used in oil and gas acquisition and supply
in the world, training was considered a vital Project component. The training allowed PGNiG to:
- develop a flexible training program in order to respond to specific needs; and
* determine specifications for training aids which have been provided under the Project (drilling
simulators, laboratory equipment, various models of equipment and manuals for the instructors
as well as for the trainees).
In parallel with the Project, five studies have been performed by the Natural Gas
Development Unit of ESMAP. They included:
*  Study 1- SOFREGAZ-BEICIP (Bureau d'Etudes et de Cooperation de l'Institut
Fran9ais du Petrole): Study on gas development plan,
*  Study 2- NERA (National Economic Research Associates): Gas pricing and tariff
study,
*  Study 3- Coopers and Lybrand Deloitte: Study in POGC restructuring,
*  Study 4- T.J. Gorton, P.D. Cameron, A.G. Kemp, W.T. Onorato: Legal and contractual
framework for petroleum activities,
*  Study 5- Coopers and Lybrand Deloitte: Environmental assessment of the gas
development plan for Poland.



Appendix A
Page 4of 15
Project included also four studies prepared by following companies:
*  SOFREGAZ-BEICIP (Bureau d'Etudes et de Cooperation de l'Institut Fran9ais du Petrole)-
Underground Gas Storage Project in Salt Caverns,
*  British Gas- Control of the Gas Transmission System in Poland,
*  Scientific Software Intercomp (SSI)- Reservoir Management Policy Study,
*  Lurgi Gas- Desulfurization of the Fields.
The loans obtained from The World Bank and European Investment Bank, the position of
which has been allotted for training purposes both abroad and in Poland, using foreign lecturers,
provided PGNiG's personnel with the following opportunities:
*  acquaintance with advanced methods and techniques used in oil and gas sector,
*  contacts with leading companies of similar business profile,
*  change of mentality among the managing and technical staff by allowing access to the newest
trends in management, planning, marketing etc.,
* broadening of horizon among the managing and technical staff, which yielded positive results in
a number of subsidiary companies, where organisational structures, operational procedures and
before all, exploration (e.g. 3D) and production methods have been changed,
* permanent contacts with foreign companies have resulted in better command of English, which,
in turn, made these contacts easier and facilitated to establish new links with foreign partners.
Large number of trainees have regularly been receiving invitations or notices about various
courses, seminars, exhibitions etc. That gives further possibilities for improvement of their
knowledge.
It is difficult to asses the above mentioned features in strictly financial terms, but they are
the source of intangible values that have positively resulted in the broadening of horizon and in
changing of mental attitudes. PGNiG employees already carry out works in foreign market e.g. in
Sakhalin (Russia), India and Pakistan. In the future they should raise the ranking of PGNiG in the
world oil-gas market.
C 4. Development and Production
The evaluation covers a period from 1991 until the end of September 1998, i.e. the eight
years' period of project implementation.
The SAR Project assumed incremental production of 11.43 BCM for natural gas and 106 thousand
tons for condensate.
The following quantities have been achieved in this period: incremental gas production of
8.38 BCM which corresponds to 73.3% of the assumptions and incremental condensate production
of 140 thousand tons i.e. 131.4%.
The reasons for non-attainment of the incremental quantities assumed for natural gas production are
analysed below.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 15
Infill Drilling
The Project assumed incremental gas production of 3.28 BCM, while 3.17 BCM have been
attained which corresponds to 96.6%.
The realisation of this increase broken down into regions of Poland is presented as follows:
South of Poland      - 1.63 BCM were expected to be achieved, 0.7 BCM have been
achieved, i.e. 42.9%
West of Poland       - 1.65 BCM were expected to be achieved, 2.47 BCM have been
achieved, i.e. 149.7%.
In the West of Poland the greater than expected incremental gas production was achieved
mainly due to development and commissioning of two fields: Radlin and Paproc. The incremental
production form these fields accounts for 96% of the incremental production attained form infill
drilling in this part of Poland. In case of these two fields, as well as Aleksandr6wka and Werzowice
fields, Banks loan provided for a part of their development cost. The surface and sub-surface
equipment as well as automatics for the mine allowed modemisation of gas production process
(production process control and measurements).
In the South of Poland, out of 160 wells planned, only 66 have been drilled, while gas
production has been attained in 57 of them and only 33 have been connected to the transmission
system.
The full scope of drilling was renounced for the following reasons:
* low or very low productivity, in the range of few cubic meters/ min. were attained in some of the
initially drilled wells,
* 9 negative wells were drilled in the first phase of infill drilling (without production).
The analysis of recoverable resources in this area, performed by PGNiG specialists with co-
operation of SSI, showed that these resources are approximately 44% smaller than proven resources
which were the basis for infill drilling project.
The reason why not all the wells have been connected to the transmission system were the
right-of-way problems as landowners did not agree for their land to be used for construction of gas
pipelines and production facilities. The lack of such authorisation was also to some extent a reason
for reduced scope of infill drilling.
Low efficiency of infill drilling in the South of Poland made it necessary to replace some of
the infill drilling with appraisal drilling.
PGNiG specialists with co-operation of SSI performed an analysis of recoverable resources
of selected fields of the Western Poland. Recoverable resources were confirmed in 78% of those
proven.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 15
Appraisal Drilling
The Project assumed that incremental gas production of 1.96 BCM would be attained, of
which 0.9 BCM in the South of Poland and 1.06 BCM in the West.
Incremental production has been attained solely in the South of Poland and it amounted to
0.58 BCM of gas which corresponds to 64.4% of the quantity expected to be produced in this
region.
In the South of Poland the number of appraisal wells was increased from 10 (according to
SAR) to 67. This increase was due to shifting of some of the infill drilling to appraisal drilling. 20
wells have been put into production which corresponds to 45% of all positive appraisal wells. The
reason why not all of the wells have been connected to the transmission system are, similarly as for
the infill drilling, right-of-way problems and long time needed to settle formal and legal issues.
Main reason for non-connection of the 25 wells and in consequence lack of gas and
condensate incremental production in the West of Poland were prolonged negotiations with
potential consumers of the gas (HPP in Zielona G6ra, Paper-mill in Kostrzyn).
Due to relatively low methane content of the gas and presence of hydrogen sulfide, the gas
can be used locally, out of the transmission system.
Gas supplies to the above consumers are expected to take place in 2000 and 2001.
During the project implementation a large gas-condensate-oil field named BMB (Barn6wko-
Mostno-Buszewo) was discovered in western Poland. Seismic tests performed with the equipment
purchased with Banks loan contributed in great extent to the discovery of that field. The field is also
enlarged with drilling equipment purchased with the loan funds. Even though this field was not
included in the SAR Project, it was discovered and made available with the equipment and
apparatus purchased with the loan and we suggest to consider the incremental gas, oil and
condensate production as a result of the SAR Project implementation.
Proven reserves amount to: 30 BCM of gas and 66 million tons of oil, recoverable reserves
respectively: 10 BCM and 10-12 million tons.
Workover
The SAR Project assumed workover activities for the total of 1000 gas wells, of which 450
wells in the South of Poland and 550 wells in the West of Poland. Out of the quantities projected,
form the beginning of the project implementation until the end of the 3d quarter, 1998 the total of
457 wells have been worked over and incremental gas and oil production was attained only in 191
wells. The overall workover efficiency was therefore 41.8%.



Appendix A
Page7of 15
In the South of Poland, out of 450 wells planned the workover was performed at 311 wells
and incremental production was attained in 165 wells, i.e. 53. 1% of the wells rehabilitated. The
incremental gas production for that period amounted to 0.46 BCM which represents 96% comparing
to the expected 0.48 BCM.
The results of the workover activities in the West of Poland are much more inferior. In that
region, out of 550 wells scheduled, 146 were rehabilitated and production was attained only in 26
i.e., 17.8% of the wells. The total incremental production form those wells from the beginning of
the Project implementation amounted to 0.39 BCM (converted to high methane) which represents
30% in respect to the expected 1.30 BCM.
While analysing the reasons why the expected incremental gas production resulting from
workover has not been achieved, it should be pointed out that in the South of Poland, although
production was attained in only half of the rehabilitated wells, the total quantity is close to the
expectations and around the year 2000 we should achieve 100% of the incremental production
expected in that time.
In the West of Poland the main reasons for the lack of expected workover results should be
attributed to the fact that minor simulation operations, which were to be included in the workover in
G6ra-Wroniniec, Tarchaly, Wik6w fields were not performed and the full scope of workover in
such fields as Bogdaj-Uciech6w, Zuchl6w and Borzecin was not realised.
The estimation analysis of recoverable resources performed using the SSI method at G6ra-
Wroniniec, Wilk6w and Tarchaly fields, i.e. those where minor simulation operations were
renounced, showed that the resources thereof are lower in respect to the balance resources by
respectively 70%, 35% and 80%.
GAS COMPRESSION
The Project assumed that between 1991 and the end of September 1998 incremental gas
production resulting from gas compression of 4.41 BCM would be attained. Actually 3.78 BCM i.e.,
85.7% were compressed and supplied to the transmission grid in that period.
Although the full projected incremental production has not been achieved yet, in two recent
years and this year the quantities of the compressed gas are greater than assumed in the project.
The quantities planned were not realised due to problems in implementation of the contract
for compressors purchase for the Zuchl6w field (delivery delay) and because gas compressing at
Wierzchowice field was stopped as it was decided to use it for UGS.



Appendix A
Page8of 15
Summar
The main project objective was to attain additional production of gas and condensate as a
result of certain ventures that would consist in increase of production from already operated fields
(infill drilling, workover of existing wells, gas compression) and identification of resources and
development of new oil and gas fields (appraisal drilling and stimulation).
The objective was possible to achieve only though modernisation and replacement of the
obsolete equipment and appliances for geophysics, drilling and operation and also through acquiring
of new technologies and training of specialists.
The projected level of total incremental production is expected to be achieved around 2002
and the achieved results, though postponed, are going to exceed the assumptions.
It should be added that the conditions of the Project implementation were more difficult than
originally expected. The above mentioned delivery delay (compressors) occurred and moreover, the
difficulties which arose during the first phase of the Project stemmed also from lack of experience
of the PGNiG staff in preparation and implementation of such task, as well as the fact that the
assumptions were based on the data available at that time which did not account for the modem
method used in the world oil industry. This affected field assessment methods and operation
techniques, as well as gas sales (marketing).
According to the PGNiG information on the developed resource quantities, the resources
had been depleted at very low rate - 4-5% per year. It was the basis for development of infill
drilling and workover program.
Purchases made with Banks loan and implementation of modem resource assessment
software permitted new resource analysis and establishing of the actual resource quantities. This
analysis showed that the resources of the operated fields are 44% smaller in the South of Poland and
22% smaller in the West in relation to the proven reserves. This evaluation explains why infill
drilling and workover were not realised in their full quantitative scope.
Purchases of modem equipment for drilling and operational enterprises (i.e., drilling, rigs,
testing equipment, etc.) were a very important decision both by PGNiG and the World Bank. Some
pieces were completely new to the Polish oil industry. In particular, nitrogen units and CTU.
Generally, the newly purchased equipment allowed to gradually phase out obsolete,
inefficient pieces (mainly drilling equipment) and to reduce the time needed to perform drilling and
workover. Measurement accuracy and quality control have been improved significantly (stimulation
and surface testing). In all cases the new system enhanced work safety, especially for works at fields
with hydrogen sulfide (nitrogen unit).
Despite the best efforts, PGNiG still cannot solve problems with well connection to the
transmission system because of the rights-of-way difficulties. This problem is particularly acute in
the South of Poland (Zalesie, Tarn6w), it seems, however, that the solution is out of PGNiG
authority.



Appendix A
Page9of 15
On the other hand, in the West of Poland, impossibility to use the entire production
potential of the fields is a major problem. The shrinking low methane gas market (conversion of
consumers to high methane) makes it necessary to negotiate with potential consumers out of the
system. ZZGNiG has been involved in such negotiations since 1991 and so far they resulted in gas
supplies to minor local consumers as, among others Copper Works in Orsk, ZNTK and
municipalities gasified from local fields without a guarantee of supply continuity.
Contract for gas delivery, mainly from BMB field (260 million m3/y), has been also signed
with heat and power plant in Gorz6w. In progress is preparation of contracts with HHP Zielona
G6ra and Paper-mill in Kostrzyn for deliveries form fields in Kogcian, Kargowa, G6rzyca and
Debno fields.
In the last three years (1995-1997) the use of production capacity for gas fields in the South
of Poland was on average 95% in each year.
The difference between production capacity and the actual production over this three years'
period is on average 92,6 MCM.
In our opinion, it is optimal use taking into account the time needed- according to the
Geological and Mining Law- every year to shut down the wells which is necessary for static
pressures to stabilise.
In general, the implementation of the Project can be considered successful. The realisation
of only 73% of the expected result in the given period can be attributed to:
- smaller recoverable resources quantities of the fields in respect to those assumed at project
formation. If the resource assessment had been carried out before the project formation, the
quantitative relation of the works performed (infill drilling, workovers) would have been more
realistic.
- unexpected difficulties with well development and connection.
Had we foreseen this, the assumed production growth rate would have been initially slower.
- delays in equipment delivery, especially for drilling and operation (well testing and stimulation
equipment, compressors).
Despite initial difficulties, in our view it is possible to realise the objective i.e., to obtain by
the end of 2010 at least 30 BCM of gas and around 600 thousand tons of condensate (oil).
The production potential - 0,9 BCM in 90 unconnected wells proves our opinion is correct.
65 wells are planned to be connected by the end of 2000 i.e., 72% of the unconnected wells. The
production potential of these wells corresponds to 67% of the potential that has not been put into
production yet.



Appendix A
Page 10 of 15
C 5. Mogilno Gas Storage
Underground Cavern Gas Storage Mogilno has been constructed by creating (leaching) of
salt formation chambers in so called salt dome in the region of Mogilno.
Location of the storage was related in particular to existing salt cavern, its central position of
the region in the country gas system and possibilities of utilisation of branching, which is
transported by pipelines to near-by Inowroclaw Sodium Plant.
Construction of UCGS Mogilno is to be carried in two stages: the first stage including
construction of the gas storage of 416 million m3 working capacity based on 8 storage chambers,
and the second stage including development of the storage by another 12 chambers, and reaching
working capacity of 1,154 million m3. The first stage is to be completed in 2002. Starting of the
second stage of construction depends on obtaining positive performance results by the storage
constructed in the first stage as well as on future peak power consumption by gas system.
Within the first stage of construction of UCGS Mogilno the following investment projects
are underway:
- UGS Mogilno including:
* underground part - storage caverns,
* surface facilities for gas injection and withdrawal.
- DN 700 gas line, working pressure = 8.4 MPa, 82 km long, connecting UGS Mogilno with the
country gas system via Wloclawek gas branching station WRG II.
 Wloclawek gas branching station WRG II.
The following works and supplies were financed from the Bank's loan:
1. Supply of DN 700 pipes and fittings for the construction of Mogilno-Wioclawek pipeline.
2. Supply of fittings, meter runs and filters for the construction of Gas Branching Station
Wloclawek II.
3. Construction of UGS surface facilities for gas injection and withdrawal (EPC contract).
4. Consultants services.
The total value of investment financed from the World bank loan amounts to USD 86,6
million i.e., PLN 240 million.
The portion financed from PGNiG own resources amounted to PLN 248 million as of
September 30, 1998.



Appendix A
Pagel 1 of 15
Current Status of the Project
* Leaching and gas injection into 4 chambers of 180 million m 3 total working capacity has been
completed. Leaching of the remaining 4 chambers has been partially completed (20-90%).
* All surface facilities, both technological and operational, envisaged in the first stage have been
constructed. Installed facilities allow for 0.25 million m3 /h capacity of gas injection to chambers
and 0.66 million m3/h (target 1.15 million m3/h)
* DN 700 Mogilno-Wloclawek pipeline, 82 km long, has been constructed and started operating.
* Assembly works for technological installation of Gas Branching Station Wloclawek II have been
completed. Works connected with installation of up-to-date control system of branching station
are almost completed.
C 6. SCADA
In the framework of the SCADA and Telecommunications, the following projects have been
financed from the Project funds:
- elaboration of the Feasibility Study for the SCADA system,
- procurement and installation of the PABX system.
The Feasibility Study has been elaborated by The British Gas. The Study included problems
of technique of measurements, processing of measurement data, monitoring of the gas system up to
the advanced software for simulation and optimisation. The Study covered also problems of the
telecommunications system.
Considering technique of measurement, recommendations included in the Study have been
implemented by establishing of the standard transmission protocol, and construction of the
Laboratory of Standards equipped with up-to-date standards as well as calibration rigs for the
calibration of turbine meters. The construction of the Laboratory has been financed from PGNiG
funds. Implementation of the above mentioned projects resulted in the unification of the gas
measurements systems based on the traceability concept as well as the increase of the accuracy of
gas measurement.
Considering the SCADA system, implementing some recommendations of the Feasibility
Study, PGNiG prepared with the assistance of PLE, the Technical Specification for the SCADA
system. After the tender procedure, the Landis & Gyr has been selected as the contractor for the turn
key SCADA project. Presently, the SCADA system subject to the contract is being prepared for the
factory acceptance test. The completion of the project, financed by the PGNiG is foreseen at the
second half of 1999 year. Some elements of the software installed in advance (simulation programs)
have been already efficiently used.



Appendix A
Page 12 of 15
Considering the telecommunications svstem, PGNiG making use of the Feasibility Study,
elaborated the Technical Specification and the design for the installation of the PABX system. As a
result of the tender procedure the contractor Polish firm DGT has been selected. The contractor
supplied and installed 8 PABX systems. After the installation, PGNiG from its own funds,
constructed fibre optic access cables to the TP S.A. and Polish Power Grid telecommunication
nodes. Continuing the extension of the PABX system, PGNiG installed next 6 PABX system.
Thanks to the new PABX systems, the telephone traffic between PGNiG offices and installations
and public telecommunication network has been substantially improved, whereas implementation of
the billing systems resulted in lowering telephone bills.
C 7. PGNiG's Restructurization
When the loan was granted PGNiG was state-owned public utility company which covered
the whole upstream and downstream activities in Poland.
The studies and projects developed by ESMAP were used in particular for:
(a) governmental programs of restructuring and demonopolization of the gas sector
(b) specialised analysis and business plans of the companies to be set up out some of PGNiG assets.
In line with ESMAP recommendations and the Letter of Intent signed between the World
Bank and the Polish Government pertaining to the restructuring of the fuel and energy sector,
PGNiG was transformed into a Treasury owned company (commercialised) by a resolution of the
Prime Minister. Sincel996, well over ten independent companies have been set up in geophysical,
drilling, construction, assembling and manufacturing activities. Fourteen thousand employees and
assets worth about 200 million PLN were transferred to those companies. The privatization of those
companies is continuing.
The loan made it possible to replace equipment and machinery, especially those used in
drilling and geophysics, with state-of-the-art pieces which allowed the companies to achieve better
economic results.
It enabled as well an increase of technological level and created opportunities to compete in
the foreign markets.
At the same time, the companies entered into competition in the foreign markets.
ESMAP studies and recommendations are still applied in works on the restructuring of the
gas sub-sector. A project of separation of the trunk transmission system and establishing 8-12
regional gas distribution companies and their subsequent privatisation is being prepared. In line
with ESMAP recommendations, regarding downstream, PGNiG intends to model its organisational
structure on similar foreign companies and deal directly only with transmission and storage in
compliance with the provisions of the Energy Law, including the schedule for introduction of the
TPA principle for gas producers in Poland.



Appendix A
Page 13 of 15
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The major objective of the Project i.e., gas and oil incremental production has been
achieved.
Sustainability of the objectives shall be obtained by:
*  continuity of implementation of the Project objectives,
*  effective use of equipment/technology procured under the Project,
*  increase of gas and oil production in old and newly discovered fields,
*  increased knowledge and experience of PGNiG staff,
*  adhering to the Project Operational Plan and its strict monitoring by PGNiG headquarter,
i  considerable improvement of assurance of uninterruptible gas supplies to the Polish customers
as a result of construction of the first stage of UGS Mogilno.
E. EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance - in our view - was more than satisfactory. Since 1992 the same
task manager and the project team were responsible for the Project implementation. Supervision
missions were conducted with appropriate frequency and were supportive in implementation of the
Project by sharing their experience and knowledge.
Good working relationship and understanding have been established between Bank's staff
and the personnel of PGNiG which influenced positively completion of the Project.
The flexible position of the Bank positively affected smooth implementation of the whole
Project and enabled final allocation of almost all loan funds.
F. EVALUATION OF PGNiG's PERFORMANCE
A great number of PGNiG specialists, both from the headquarters and field companies, have
been involved in the project. They made every effort, especially at the definition phase, to make the
Project successful.
PGNiG set up Project Implementation Unit /BOBS/ that handled co-ordination of all
Project-related issues. Co-operation between PIU and field companies/divisions was excellent in all
respects.
Tendering process was carried out in an efficient and timely manner.



Appendix A
Page l4of 15
PGNiG confirmed that it is able to adapt to market conditions and it may compete
internationally with respect to upstream services.
PGNiG managed to introduce in a relatively short time technologies, methods and tools used
in the oil and gas industry world-wide, which increased efficiency of operations as well as
competitiveness of the company.
G. EVALUATION OF RESULTS
* The Project was closed by 30 June 1998. PGNiG fulfilled all basic objectives of the Project,
therefore we consider that Project implementation was a success.
* Oil and gas sector was developed and reached a satisfactory progress through the Project
implementation. PGNiG acquired modern equipment, training, technology and know-how
which improved operations and competitiveness of the company. We believe that this process of
progress can be sustained by projects and investments to be implemented in the future. PGNiG-
as a result of its fleet modernization-commenced international operations through acquisition of
foreign concessions and sale of its services /seismic, drilling and intensification/ abroad.
v 99.4% of the loan was disbursed.
a Project requirements on gas pricing became an impulse to introduction of changes in the state
gas pricing policy for the end-users.
* Capacity of UGS Mogilno /1-st stage/ eliminates gas supplies interruptions that were imposed
before on large industrial consumers during winter peaks.
* Environmental matters have become one of the major factors for decision-making with respect
to new projects.
* PGNiG professionals involved in Project implementation participated in the number of training
programs aimed not only at introduction of the World Bank procedures necessary to carry out
the Project, but also at valuable insights into international accounting standards, investment
viability analysis or financial forecasting.
* The Project is deemed by PGNiG as successful and the experiences learned during the Project
will be usefully applied by the company in the future projects.



Appendix A
Page 15 of 15
H. CONCLUSIONS\ LESSONS
PGNiG has gained many experiences during project implementation and the key conclusions
are as follows:
*  Good and thorough preparation of Project is of utmost importance because only this approach
can secure efficient implementation.
* PGNiG learned and implemented international procurement practices both for the Project and
PGNiG's own projects. We consider that tendering practices are very useful to achieve lower
prices, good quality and performance.
*  Strict cooperation among involved Parties is one of the most important factor for the Project
implementation.
- PGNiG has employed external consultants in addition to own specialists which heavily
supported the adequate completion of large subprojects e.g., Mogilno UGS.
-  Cooperation between the Banks and PGNiG was deemed to be very satisfactory throughout the
project life cycle. The missions brought their experience and knowledge to the Project
completion. PGNiG believes that the approval procedures for procurement issues are quite rigid
and bureaucratic in the World Bank.
Therefore it is proposed that Borrowers be treated in a different manner and more reliable
clients be given a greater degree of flexibility. Due to the pool units, it is very difficult to
prepare a reliable plan for the interest payable even on short term, and the amount of extra
expenses due to changes in cross - currency can not be estimated.
World Bank User
\\StreetTalk\Projects@Files@ECA\POLAND\ENERGY\ENERDEV\71CR\APPENDXA.DOC
03/16/99 4:29 PM



MAP SECTION



-  ___________   _________________________________________                                                                  TED    SE!   11~~~~IB D     30 11
tOR                                                                    0ETR.SA                                                              22                                0                                                                   POLAND
IENERGY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEDERATION
Coy ~~~~~~~~~~~~)i.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~,,                                                  10 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT AREAS 1,11, 1!, IV, V
Coo-k0,o e                                                                                                                                                             OIL FIELDS
S                                0                                           .                                                                                                             GAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A EL
NIGH METHANEGA
1                                            Oooyo                   0                                                                 .                               oooo-oo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIGH NITROGEN GAS
~~~SoozRmo  00  :0                                                                                                    0                                                  00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COKE GAS
o  U NDERGROUND STORAGE (GAS)
00000                                                                                                                                                          5o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E   COMPRESSION UTATICONS (GAS)
2                                                       RoootosIokOO0       '       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BELA  RU SA                  TREADING & SULFUR RECOVERY PLANTS
0  3                  01           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                                                                   COAL DEPOSITS Ii-otio-ospp-oo-to)
N  FJHoooT  0                                                                                               HorO   R                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRODUCING HARD COAL AREAS
2   00>                                  0000 yoMopolokp00k/PRODUCINOG LIGNITE AREAS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~/0                                                                                                                            LIGNITE RESOURCE AREAS
MLoot  l( 0  03rszaw                                                                                                                                      -           *0                                              MAJOR PoRTs
02  f   o  0001,000 00                                            0          0                                  0            -                          H;                             *   NATIONO CAPITA0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATONL APTA
/     oIor,o                                                                        Poooo          Soooooo            0                                    EO                     r*. 0o                                                PROVINCE (VOIVOD)SHIP) CAPITALS
o     Coroooo                                    0 GOLo                         0         ~         ~        ~        o               0  0       0    FothooroKf                                                             0      SELECIED CIT ES AND TOWNS
0   0   0  0  0.)   0000  0  0001oo100   0   00000                                                     0o                                                                            RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIER
0  0o o tOTo.    oo4o,  0;0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~050odo0)  0                         00    40JfoT                           0                                                              CANALS~~~~~~~~~~CNAL
0 0  04,000  O0ooo~~~~~~~~~~0    ~ ~ ~ )~~$;oi05THA  Tooooo               "5 ~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOLUNDARIES
0             00000  00                         Tpoow0
00Y0 0Oui                                                                          
0"-1                                REd-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hio                                                             U5010                                     T             0  KLMTT
1                    5          55~~~~~~~~~~"  00       7       1 55 MOSS         LOETR
00                             N~~~~~~~ORWAT                         00  SGIT
400 To   Tooooooeg                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWEDEN  10RUSSIAN
0 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oFEDERATION
/                          E~~~~~~~~AT VIA
T-o-    yo-0 -  -  00-Noth                                                   ENMARR                 OTSO 000000000 M                00
0  00                          T   0  jT                     AOOS~~~~~~~~~~~~ITHUANIA 
0000                                                  SlOt                                                                            ROSESAEI)~~~~~
0  0   0000    Rooo0  000                                                                                     'TETo.oo.~~~~~~~~~~~~~5I
.oo~~~~0T  42o(  0o0000  00002   04  0000  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ELRU
C Z E C H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                  0                          o0xtoo~2oooo                                                 Uo0
~~?  Jooo;o 00 ~~ Proooyol/  UKRAINE                    e      GERMANY00  ooU                             WO       00000000
Ohooooooo poHoolEyiootopooooJoooTEoWldto-k                                   C. UURRAINE 0
ToL,oo-oooe...... oooooo-oooyooofoooofw                                                             o           0      V00                                                                           ~0                                       ZECHA0
10000>                                  0!                 ~~~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~SLOVAK  REPUBLIC   0k5420ASRI)HNAY    OMANIJA01005
_________________________                                   _______                                     _______________________                                                                                                                        (/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22  4,  5ITZ



