FILE        COfPY                        Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1788-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
FERROCARRILES NACIONALES DE MEXICO
AND
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
March 17, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00       = Mex$12.50
Mex$1.00      = Us$  0.80
Mex$1 million = US$bO,o0o
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO FERROCARRILES NACIONALES DE MEXICO
AND NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES FOR A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (N de M) and Nacional Financiera, S.A.,
with the guarantee of the United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$100
million, to help finance a third railway project. The loan would have a term
of 25 years, including Four years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Some of the major structural features of the Mexican economy - past,
present and future - were analyzed in "The Economy of Mexico: A Basic
Report" (192-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on June 26, 1973;
short-run trends in 19731-74-were covered in "Mexico: Current Economic Posi-
tions and Prospects", distributed on September 27, 1974. Another updating
mission visited Mexico in July 1975. Its draft findings were discussed with
the authorities at the highest level in Mexico in early December. Subsequently,
the Mexican budget for 1976 has been presented to the Congress. A-further Bank
mission visited Mexico in late January to review the Government's fiscal and
monetary program for this year. The findings of this mission have been in-
corporated in an economic report to be distributed to the Executive Directors
during March 1976. Country data sheets are contained in Annex I.
3.        For the three most recent decades, the Mexican economic system,
measured in terms of GDP growth, has been outstandingly successful. Since
1940, the annual average growth rate has exceeded 6 percent. And from the
mid-1950's to 1972, Mexico was among the few countries in the developing world
to combine sustained and rapid growth with monetary and balance of payments
stability. Inflation averaged less than 5 percent a year and the dollar value
of the peso was maintained at the level fixed in 1954.
4.        Rapid and sustained growth was the product of successful policies
affecting the mobilization and use of both private and public sector resources.
The role of government in promoting economic growth was expressed on the one
hand in the development of strategic infrastructure and major utility indus-
tries and, on the other, in policies which featured price support, import con-
trol and agrarian reform measures in the agricultural sector and external pro-
tection and the provision of fiscal incentives in the industrial sector.



2 -
5.        The relative emphasis of public and private investment was, however,
reflected in changes in the structure of output and employment and the expan-
sion of manufacturing industry. Agriculture, nevertheless, continued to be
the chief source of employment and in 1970 accounted for 39 percent of the
economically active population.
6.        In spite of rapid and sustained economic growth over this long
period, the combination of a high demographic growth rate - about 3.4 percent
per year - and, until fairly recently, primarily import substituting indus-
trial policies, have prevented an adequate absorption of the labor force in
productive employment. Industrial growth has been quite substantial - about
8 percent annually since the mid-fifties - but could have been even faster
if industrial and trade policies had been primarily focused on exploiting
Mexico's unique export opportunities based on its contiguity to a large in-
dustrial market in which labor costs are much higher than those in Mexico.
It was only in the early seventies that some important steps were taken to
develop manufacturing exports on a large scale - the system of drawbacks on
domestic taxes paid on exports and the "border industries" regime were intro-
duced at that time, and these have been so highly successful as to suggest
that a lot more could still be done. As it is, 40 percent of the labor force
is estimated to be still engaged in marginal occupations, relatively unproduc-
tive and hence poorly paid - or openly unemployed.
7.        The Mexican strategy for development has, in the past, relied on a
combination of public action and private profit. The government has played
a highly important role in this process, both in promoting key industries,
such as power and petroleum, and in creating a regulatory and institutional
framework within which private and social groups could compete and contend,
but which was both firm enough and flexible enough to ensure overall continuity
and stability. As a formula for growth, this system has served Mexico well;
it has however also led to a sharpening of contrasts in income and wealth bet-
ween people and among regions. This was not entirely an incidental by-product
of the process of growth; the share of the government in the economy was kept
down quite deliberately for many years, and the scope of redistributive poli-
cies was necessarily limited as long as the tax ratios remained under ten per-
cent - among the lowest in the world. The government played a crucial role
in the development of private commercial agriculture through irrigation and
credit policies and of industry through the provision of infrastructure, edu-
cation, social legislation and financial policies, but it did not concern
itself primarily with the problems of the poorest sections of the population.
While the land reform of 1915 was sustained, the absence of sufficient fiscal
resources made it impossible to develop major programs to improve the economic
status of its beneficiaries. The present government, however, came to power
on a program of combining past growth policies with much greater efforts in
favor of the rural poor, and has launched a number of ambitious initiatives
in this direction.



- 3 -
8.         The attempts which have been made by the present administration
(1970-76) to alleviate the poverty of the countryside and to redress some of
the imbalances between rural and urban Mexico have several dimensions. They
include a revised Agrarian Reform Law (1971) and a new Federal Water Law
(1972), both of which are intended to promote a more equitable distribution
of basic agricultural resources. These measures have been complemented by
changes in the sectoral. allocation of agricultural credit in order to increase
the share of low-income farmers and ejidatarios (members of ejidos, which are
a form of collective land tenure based on usufruct), and the introduction of
higher support prices for basic foodcrops. The Government has also increased
outlays for agricultural research, training and extension services, with
particular regard to the needs of peasant farmers. Perhaps the most signifi-
cant innovation has beEn a new program for integrated rural deveLopment with
which the World Bank has been associated from an early stage.
9.        The social and economic needs of the rural sector have not monopo-
lized government attention; those of urban-industrial development have also
been stressed in the form of heavy public investment in basic industries -
delayed during the 1960's - and an innovative low-income housing program which
has been financed with a five percent payroll tax. Productive investment has
thus been complemented, in the urban as well as the rural economy, by institu-
tional changes and public expenditures designed to improve the living condi-
tions of the poor. This parallel effort has, however, generated several
problems of short-run economic management.
10.       In 1971, after monetary and balance of payments pressures had emerged
during the previous year, the (then new) Government took stringent action to
control demand with the effect that the GDP growth rate fell to 3.4 percent
by comparison with the decade average of 7.1 percent in the 1960's. In 1972,
renewed expansion was stimulated by public expenditure and the GDP growth rate
rose to 7.4 percent.   There was another year of rapid growth (7.6 percent) in
1973 - but this time associated with an increase of 12.4 percent in the GDP
deflator which was strongly associated with the impact of external inflation.
Inflation was not the only novelty; private domestic financial savings, which
in the past had helped Einance sustained growth increased by only 8 percent,
compared with an average annual rate of increase of 20.5 percent in 1966-72;
the inflow of private capital was replaced by a net outflow; and private
investment - particularly in the industrial sector - slackened, reflecting
some uncertainty on the part. of the business community and a declining interest
rate differential vis-a-.vis those prevailing on financial savings instruments
in the United States. ]:n the public sector, the fiscal deficit amounted to
6.4 percent of GDP by comparison with an average of 2.6 percent in 1966-72.
A major share of the linited expansion of real credit was used to finance part
of this deficit while net external borrowing of US$1 billion (2 percent of GDP)
was deployed to finance the rest. These trends were inevitably reflected in
the balance of payments, where the current account deficit rose to 3 percent
of GDP (by comparison with an average of 2,5 percent in 1966-72).



- 4 -
11.       Noting these trends, the authorities had, by mid-1973, put a res-
trictive monetary and credit policy into effect and complemented this with
what was originally intended to be an austere public finance program for
FY74. Taken together, these measures were expected to restrict demand to
reduce both inflation and the size of the current account deficit. The
results for 1974 indicate that whereas the former objective was achieved,
the latter was not. Monetary and credit policies were, on the whole, carried
out as planned. The rate of increase of prices thus decelerated from April
onwards, and a positive differential between Mexican and foreign interest
rates was reestablished by the end of the year, although credit was not
allocated as originally intended because the public sector again pre-empted
a large part of what was available. Higher than planned public expenditures
and lower than expected revenues meant, moreover, that the fiscal deficit was
larger than foreseen as were the growth rates of aggregate demand and real
imports. The deficit in the balance of payments on current account thus
amounted to 4.6 percent of GDP rather than the intended 2.8 percent. Net
public external borrowing of more than one year rose to US$2.4 billion.
12.       During 1975, the Government's original objective was to achieve sus-
tained economic growth under what were expected to be adverse conditions asso-
ciated with the world recession. The public finance program called for an
increase in public expenditures, which was to be partly financed with a subs-
tantial increase in public revenues based on tax reforms, and it was expected
that the public sector deficit could be reduced to 4.3 percent of GDP by
comparison with 6.7 percent in 1974. Given this, and assuming only a moderate
growth of imports in real terms, a decline in the resource gap and in the
current account deficit in the balance of payments were anticipated. With a
modest level of public internal borrowing and an expected recovery in quasi-
money deposits the intention was to maintain a restrictive monetary policy
while allowing a modest increase in real private credit and on this basis to
achieve a substantial reduction in inflation.
13.       In the light of provisional results for 1975, it is clear that the
objectives of this program were not fully realized. The real GDP growth rate
is estimated to have been of the order of 4.0 percent, the current account
deficit in the balance of payments is estimated at the equivalent of 5.0 percent
of GDP and the public sector deficit was equivalent to 8.9 percent of GDP. On
a more positive note however, quasi-money growth is estimated at 27 percent over
the year, and the annual average rate of inflation is estimated at 15 percent.
It is clear that the world recession had a much greater than expected impact
on the economy and was moreover one of the factors that led to the growth of the
public deficit because the Government attempted to counteract the slow-down
in the economic growth with increased public expenditures. The increase in
public sector revenues was somewhat smaller than expected but nevertheless
amounted to an increase of about 1.2 percentage points of GDP, which repre-
sents an important achievement in resource mobilization. The discrepancy
between the original targets of the 1975 economic program and its estimated
outcome will have a constraining influence on economic management in 1976.



- 5 -
Aware of this situation, in designing the economic program for 1976, the
Government decided to make a major effort to control public expenditures and
to limit the size of this year's public deficit. The budget for 1976 features
greater a priori realism than the budgets of the last two years. It makes
only modest assumptions about the growth of revenues and puts more emphasis
on controlling expenditures. Consistent with this, the Government expects
that the consolidated public sector deficit will decline from 8.9 percent of
GDP in 1975 to 7.5 percent of GDP in 1976. Given this fiscal program and
assuming a low rate of growth of GDP (3.5 percent), an improvement in the
balance of payments can be foreseen. The authorities are expecting the cur-
rent account deficit of the balance of payments to drop from 5.0 percent of
GDP in 1975 to 3.2 percent of GDP in 1976. The monetary and credit programs
have been designed so as to maintain average inflation at the same level as
in 1975, while allowing a credit expansion enough to finance a larger share of
the consolidated public s,sctor deficit and to increase private credit by about
15 percent. In recent discussion with the Bank staff, the authoritities have
stressed their determination to take whatever action may be necessary to avoid
slippage from this program. They recognize that this is a first step towards
restoring financial and balance of payments equilibrium. Further action has
to be taken. This is going to be the first challenge for the new Administra-
tion, which will be inaugurated next December.
14.       On December 31, 1975, Mexico's outstanding and disbursed public
debt of more than one year was US$11.3 billion. Net medium- and long-term
public borrowing in 1974 of US$3.3 billion reflected heavy reliance on exter-
nal as well as internal capital to finance the fiscal deficit and some borrow-
ing - as in 1974 - to offset private capital movements.
15.       During 1975, net public external borrowing of more than one year
would be of the order of US$3.3 billion, which amounts to 4.2 percent of
estimated GDP compared with 3.7 percent in 1974. Both in 1974 and 1975 a very
large proportion of new borrowing has been in the form of credits from banking
institutions. Mexico's abLlity to service a rising level of debt is closely
associated with its export growth performance. The behavior of petroleum
exports is an important element in export performance. After allowing for
the growth of domestic consumption, the rate of growth of crude output and
the export surplus will continue to rise through 1980 by which time net
exports of crude and petroleum products are conservatively projected as
US$1,200 million. Mexico's debt service ratio was 20.5 percent in 1974;
the estimate for 1975 is 25 percent. The debt service ratio will probably
be higher than this in the remainder of the 1970's and early 80's but can be
expected to decline to about the present level by the mid 80's. The actual
level of debt service-payments will, of course, depend on the management
of the balance of payments. The Bank's share of the public debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1974 was approximately 12.9 percent and its share
in debt service payments was about 8.5 percent. These shares are expected to
fall during the remainder oE this decade.
16.       Mexico is creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms pro-
vided the Government exercises due restraint in monetary, balance of payments,



- 6 -
credit and fiscal policies and, above all, maintains a favorable climate for
export expansion; its recent decision concerning economic policies for 1976
suggest it intends to do so and it is our intention to continue to monitor
developments in close contact with the authorities.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
17.       As of January 31, 1976, Mexico had received 43 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2,237.7 million net of cancellations; of these, 26 loans
totalling US$1,239.9 million were fully disbursed. As of January 31, 1976,
the Bank held US$1,880.1 million of which US$745.4 million had not yet been
disbursed. During FY66-70, disbursements averaged US$69.5 million per year,
increasing to US$112.7 million per year over the period FY71-75 and reaching
US$202.6 million in FY75. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for
agriculture and rural development (13 loans for US$780.5 million), 32 percent
for power (11 loans for US$714.8 million) and 20 percent for transportation
projects (11 loans for US$447.8 million); the remaining 13 percent has been for
industry (US$165 million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism projects
(US$22 million). The execution of Bank financed projects has generally been
satisfactory. A number of problems relating to the financing requirements
of the power and ports sectors have now been either resolved or are in the
process of resolution to the Bank's satisfaction. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of January 31, 1976 and notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
18.       Bank lending was active in FY74 with five loans totalling US$309
million, and in FY75 with four loans totalling US$360 million. This would
be the fourth loan proposed for approval in FY76; we have already presented to
you during this fiscal year a water supply project, a DFC project and an
agricultural and livestock credit project.
IFC Operations
19.       As of January 31, 1976, IFC had made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.9 million, of which US$36.6 million had been
sold, repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$33.3 mil-
lion, consists of US$27.6 million in loans and US$5.7 million in equity. A
summary statement of IFC investments as of January 31, 1976 is presented in
Annex II.
Bank Strategy
20.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:    (i)
support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the benefits
of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading to continued



economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make directly or
indirectly significant contributions to output and employment and by support-
ing institutional change, that will make possible a more effective manage-
ment in the key sectors of the economy; (iii) help resolve critical adjust-
ment problems induced by Mexico's continued economic growth; and (iv) com-
plement Mexico's domestic savings by helping to finance economic and social
investments in a framework of internal and external financial stability.
21.       Over the last few years, Bank lending to Mexico has evolved to the
goals outlined above, as is evident from its sectoral mix and policy empha-
sis. Thus, a Bank loan of US$70 million for the Las Truchas steel mill
(FY74) attempts to further the country's industrial growth as well as to
support the Government's policy of industrial decentralization. Likewise, a
fertilizer project, for which the Bank made a loan of US$50 million (FY75),
is expected to help promote new poles of development in the resource-rich
southeast region and the north central area and to make Mexico independent
of imported urea fertilizer in the medium term. Further projects with simi-
lar aims are being prepared.
22.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further develop-
ment, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending.
Consistent with the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a
three-tier approach is being followed. First, Bank support is aimed at ex-
panding and strengthening irrigation and agricultural credit programs so as
to meet the demands of a rapidly growing population more adequately and to
generate the foreign exchange needed for rising import requirements. Second,
to assist the Government in its efforts to raise the incomes of the rural
poor and improve their standards of living through a combination of directly
productive, productive support and social infrastructure investment, Third,
to strengthen Mexico's institutional capability to use scarce agricultural
resources more efficiently.
23.       The Rio Bravo/Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (FY75)
of US$150 million will thu:3 significantly increase agricultural and livestock
production on more than a quarter of a million hectares and benefit more than
100,000 people. The Papaloapan and PIDER Integrated Rural Development Pro-
jects (FY75) of US$50 and US$110 million, respectively, have their primary
focus on improving the living standards and productivity of close to 1.5 mil-
lion people through integrated, multisectoral development. Another rural
development and two irrigation projects are now being prepared for possible
Bank financing. In addition, we are exploring the possibilities for a lagoon
fisheries project and for tropical agricultural development and research in
the Gulf Coast; both of these projects are on the frontiers of our involve-
ment in agriculture which would lead to community development in addition to
laying the foundation for large-scale exploitation of Mexico's tropical agri-
culture in the future.



- 8 -
24.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank has focused on investments in
key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms and sector poli-
cies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to help generate
additional resources for investment financing. While the Airports Development
Project (FY74) of US$25 million has been designed in support of the Govern-
ment's policy of regional integration, the Mexico City Water Supply Project
(FY73) of US$90 million has been instrumental in the establishment of a spec-
ialized institution for efficient management of water resources in the Mexico
Valley, and in the pricing of water at levels more closely related to costs.
Likewise, the recently approved Medium Cities Water Supply Project of US$40
million seeks to mobilize additional resources for financing the large in-
vestments required to meet the increasing demand in that sector, especially
among low income groups whose standards of health are thus expected to im-
prove. In addition, new institutional arrangements have been made to allow
a more systematic and economic approach to investment planning for water
supply. We are planning to present projects with a similar institutional
focus in the ports, roads and power sectors for your consideration in the
near future.
25.       The proposed railway project includes a number of features which
should lead to further gains in the operational efficiency and financial
position of N de M, by far the largest public enterprise in the transport
sector. It is an essential element of the Government's policy to rationa-
lize this sector and to provide the infrastructure required for economic
growth in the late 1970's and 1980's.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN MEXICO
Bank Participation in the Transport Sector
26.       Except for a railway loan of US$61 million made in 1954 for the
rehabilitation and modernization of the Ferrocarril del Pacifico, Bank lend-
ing in the transport sector up to 1970 had been confined to five highway
loans totalling US$155 million. In 1970, the Bank conducted a study of the
transport sector with Government assistance. The recommendations of this
far reaching study have provided the basis for investment projects that the
Bank has helped finance since then, and for the institutional and policy
changes that these projects have helped identify. During the past five
years, the Bank made two loans for highway projects (US$111.8 million), one
each for a railway project (US$75 million) - which is being satisfactorily
implemented -, and a ports project (US$20 million), and one for an airports
development project (US$25 million). The two rural development projects and
the irrigation project approved in FY75 also included provision of US$15
million to help construct about 5,000 km of rural roads.
Sector Background
27.       The large size and the rugged topography, as well as the disper-
sion of its population have always made transport a crucial element of the



- 9 -
country's development efforts. The initial emphasis was on railway infra-
structure investments and 19,000 route kms were laid out before 1910. Tran-
port infrastructure investments then stagnated until the mid-1930's after
which the emphasis shifted to highway construction to provide connections
between Mexico City, the state capitals, and the main border crossings and
seaports. Transport iinfrastructure investments in 1975 amounted to Mex$13.7
billion, or 15 percent of the authorized public investment budget; about 45
percent of these investment expenditures went for roads and 35 percent for
railways. The amount, composition and location of these investments are
generally satisfactory and consistent with the needs of the economy.
Highway Subsector
28.       The highway network includes about 53,000 km of paved roads, 69,000
km of surfaced roads, cnd 47,000 km of dirt roads; generally, the network is
adequately maintained and of good to very good standards. The highway sector
is asserting its primacy over other modes for both national and international
traffic. Interstate operators dominate the market, thereby giving the Fede-
ral Government a strong position to regulate the sector by controlling tar-
iffs and licenses. At the same time, the highway sector is extremely com-
petitive and market oriented, offering its customers a high level of service.
Total vehicle registration has reached about 2.4 million, accounting for
about 650,000 trucks, 40,000 buses and 1.7 million cars; over the last de-
cade, the number of private cars in circulation has almost tripled and the
number of registered trucks almost doubled. Gasoline and diesel fuel con-
sumption respectively doubled and tripled over the same period, suggesting
a greater share of vehicular traffic by larger diesel powered trucks and
buses.
29.       Road user charges largely cover road maintenance and investment
costs, especially since the creation of a federal retail tax on gasoline in
December 1973; however, except for small state taxes, there is no direct levy
on diesel fuel at the retail level and PEMEX (Petroleos Mexicanos, the Gov-
ernment owned oil production and distribution monopoly) pays a turnover tax
only on its output of gasoline. Other taxes levied on heavy diesel powered
vehicles being relatively low, it is uncertain whether the distribution of
road charges among users is appropriate. A Bank-financed study of possible
distortions of the present charge structure is nearing completion and its
findings are to be reflected in national transport policy. Despite the
expected development of the railways' capacity for bulk, long haul cargo,
large investments in the highway sector are still required, with a large
share going to secondary and feeder roads.
Aviation Subsector
30.       The relatively advanced stage reached by air transport in Mexico
reflects the dispersion of the country's population and economic activities,
and the Government's policy of encouraging the development of growth poles



- 10 -
away from the three main urban centers. Mexico has more than 1,200 airports
and landing strips, over 200 of which are owned and operated by the Federal
Government and its agencies; the rest is in private hands. Air transport is
the fastest growing mode of passenger traffic; the number of commercial
passengers more than tripled over the last ten years, reaching about 19 mil-
lion in 1975. The two most important Mexican airlines account for about a
third of international traffic and for the whole of domestic traffic. Prio-
rities in the sector are the construction of a reliever airport for Mexico
City (for which land is now being acquired), the sound expansion of the
regional airport system, the continued strengthening of planning and coordi-
nation and the continued good financial standing of the public enterprises
involved with a view to keep financing much of the future airport investments
from user charges.
Ports Subsector
31.       Port traffic has increased dramatically since 1970 because of the
growth of coastal shipments of crude oil and of dry bulk foreign trade.
As a whole, coastal shipments and foreign trade increased by about two-thirds
over the period 1970-74 and amounted to about 27 and 15 million tons res-
pectively in 1974. Increases in coastal shipments of oil products and in
dry bulk and general cargo traffic for foreign trade, because of the rapid
development of Mexico's petroleum industry and of the Government's efforts
to stimulate and diversify exports are expected to keep up this momentum
of growth over the next few years.
32.       Since the first Bank loan to the port system was made (FY 72), a
number of operational and related organizational changes have been made at
the local level to increase productivity. In particular, the numerous
labor unions have been consolidated into cargo handling enterprises in the
eleven major ports, which handle three-fourths of total traffic. These
enterprises, in which the Federal Government is a major stockholder, now
perform various functions previously assumed by the labor unions; the objec-
tive of this reform is to eventually place all cargo handling and storage
operations under centralized management in every port while improving the
productivity and commercial orientation of the system as a whole. Other
priorities in this subsector are the expansion of the ports of Tampico and
Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico, and of Manzanillo on the West Coast, the
introduction of container technology, continued improvements in the effi-
ciency and financial standing of the public cargo handling enterprises, and
in ensuring the efficient use of public resources for investments in port
facilities and equipment. These priorities are reflected in a Second Ports
Project now under preparation.
Pipeline
33.       Pipelines are a dominant mode for PEMEX internal shipments of crude,
natural gas and refined products. PEMEX pipeline traffic has increased drama-
tically in the early 1970's in line with the rapid development of new oil



- 11 -
fields from about 3 billion ton-km in 1969, or one-fifth of total PEMEX ship-
ments, to more than 18 billion ton-km in 1974, or 39 percent of the total.
There are two major gas pipeline systems, one connecting the northern fields
to consuming centers in the west and north of the country and the other
supplying the central and western regions from the Tabasco area oil fields.
An oil pipeline system interconnects the refineries located near Irapuato,
Mexico City, Poza Rica and Tampico with the Poza Rica fields and marine
terminals; a 590 km pipeline between Pajaritos and Poza Rica is now under
construction.
The National Railway System
34.       While the eKtent of the railways network did not change signifi-
cantly since the early 1960's, the system has been gradually consolidated
under government control since 1964 from 11 to 5 public companies operating
over some 20,000 km oE standard gauge tracks. N de M dominates the railway
sector, carrying aboui: 80 percent of the total tonnage over about 71 percent
of the network; it serves most of the country and includes the whole trunk
network, except for a heavy traffic line along the Pacific Coast. This line
is run by del Pacifico, the next largest railway, with about 10 percent of
the total tonnage. Other railways are essentially branch lines feeding into
the N de M-del Pacifico grid. Few additional railway lines will be con-
structed over the nexi: few years; the most important one, a 200-km line from
Corondiro to Las Truchas, will connect in late 1977 the new steel works at
Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Coast (which the Bank helped finance) to the
central industrial region.
35.       N de M and clel Pacifico are autonomous government agencies under
the authority of the same General Manager; their Boards of Directors repre-
sent various MinistriEs, the Chambers of Commerce and the Union of Railway
Workers.  The three other railways are operated as a Directorate of the
Ministry of Communications and Transport (SCT); their General Managers are
appointed by the Minister who also acts as Chairman of their Boards.
Transport Planning and Coordination
36.       The framework for transport coordination and sectoral policy making
is complex. It includes four Ministries with direct responsibility over
various policymaking aspects, numerous public enterprises responsible for the
operation of modal services, and two recently created coordinating commissions.
SCT supervises the operations of all modes of transport by controlling licenses,
tariffs and other operational parameters; SCT is also responsible for running
the three small state railways (Chihuaha-Pacifico, Sonora-Baja California and
Unidos del Sureste) and is directly involved in the aviation subsector through
the national air traffic control company (jointly owned by the Government and
the airlines serving Mexico), and in regulating road transport on the federal
highways. Despite its regulatory and operational responsibilities, SCT has
had so far little say Ln the preparation and approval of investment programs
in the transport field. By contrast, the Ministry of Public Works (SOP) has
traditionally taken the lead in the programming of highway, railway and air-
port infrastructure investments. SOP is also in charge of work supervision
and maintenance for hiphways and airports.



- 12 -
37.       The complexity and size of Mexico's transport system make strong
coordination very desirable. Towards this end, one of the first acts of the
present administration was the creation, in 1971, of the National Ports
Coordinating Commission (CNCP), to supervise the establishment of the semi-
autonomous ports enterprises mentioned earlier, to prepare a long-term plan
for ports development, and to coordinate the various public and private
interests related to ports. In 1973, another interagency coordinating com-
mission under the authority of the Ministry of the Presidency was created to
facilitate investment planning for infrastructure as well as equipment in the
transport field. Finally, SCT's planning capability has been substantially
strengthened and the Ministry is to shortly complete proposals for long-
range transport sector policy. These proposals are based on the conclusions
of a national transport study carried out by the Ministry, in an effort
to systematically examine the long-run implications of the country's transport
policies. The Government's desire to improve the management of the transport
system is also reflected in the recent unification of railway freight rates
and in improved road/rail freight rates coordination. It is expected that
these efforts will continue and that the planning and management capabili-
ties of the decentralized modal agencies will be further strengthened, leading
to a substantial improvement in the administration and coordination of the
sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The Government of Mexico and N de M have requested a Bank loan
to help finance N de M's Five-Year Investment Plan (1975-1979). The pro-
posed Project covers the period 1976-1977; it was appraised by a Bank mission
which visited Mexico in May and October 1975. A report, entitled "Appraisal
of a Third Railway Project," No. 957a-ME, dated March 15, 1976 is being cir-
culated separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and project summary is
presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington from February
9 to 13, 1976. The Mexican negotiating team was led by Messrs. P. Galicia
(Nacional Financiera) and L. Gomez Z. (N de M).
The 1975-1979 Investment Plan
39.       The Five-Year Investment Plan for 1975-1979, prepared by N de M
is estimated to cost US$1,401 million equivalent with a foreign exchange
component of US$560 million equivalent, including physical and price contin-
gencies. The Plan is based on detailed traffic forecasts, and N de M's
programs of rehabilitation and improvement of its track and rolling stock and
allows for anticipated operational improvements. The Plan does not include
major construction and realignment works, which are prepared jointly by N de
M, SCT and SOP and executed by SOP. Coordination between these agencies on
matters affecting the planning, programming and technical standards of the
works is good. No substantial changes in the Investment Plan will be made and
no major SOP investment carried out during the period covered by the Plan
without the Bank's having had the opportunity to review and comment upon the
feasibility studies involved (Section 4.04, Loan Agreement and Section 3.04,
Guarantee Agreement).



- 13 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
40.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$576 million equiva-
lent with a foreign exchange component of US$253 million, inclusive of physi-
cal and price contingencies. The objectives of the Project, together with
the accompanying Plan of Action, are: (a) to enable N de tl to cope with the
increasing traffic it is required to carry, by the improvement of its operating
efficiency, the rehabilitation of its track, the modernization of its telecom-
munications system an(I the acquisition of urgently needed rolling stock and
machinery; and (b) to improve N de M1's financial position.
41.       The main items of the Project are:    (a) track renewal on about
1,060 km of principal traffic lines; (b) continuation of a program for
reballasting and sleeper replacement; (c) completion of a radio communication
system, with the necessary ground installations; (d) purchase of about 124
new diesel locomotives, 5,800 new freight cars and 180 new passenger coaches.
The proposed loan of US$100 million would finance about 40 percent of the
foreign exchange cost Df the Project. The loan would help finance the pur-
chase of 76,000 tons of new heavy rail, of track maintenance equipment, of
a new radio communication system and of imported freight car components; it
would also provide continued technical assistance in the areas of telecoramu-
nications, and car/train operational control. As more fully detailed in
Annex III, p.2, the Govternment will contribute a large share of N de M's
financing needs over the next few years. Other major sources of funds, be-
sides the Bank, will be the US Exim Bank (mostly for locomotives and sig-
nalling equipment) and the Export Development Bank of Canada (mostly for
locomotives). Loans from the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(BNOSP) and credit from local suppliers will continue to help finance N de
I1's domestic needs.
Organization and Management
42.        The current management, in charge since May 1973, has had consider-
able experience of running public state enterprises, with most of the team
coming from within N de 11 or from del Pacifico. With the assistance of con-
sultants, it has improved operations and consolidated the earlier 17 districts
into four regional units to ensure better liaison with and control from
headquarters.
43.       The total number of fulltime regular employees has been slowly in-
creasing from about 59,000 in 1970 to about 63,300 in 1975. Strong traffic
growth over the period has however improved productivity measured in terms
of traffic units (ton-km plus pass-km) per employee from 375,000 in 1970
to 459,000 in 1975, well above the level envisioned under the Second Railway
Project. N de M's staff training programs are well organized; however, there
is need for modernizing both recruitment and training practices in order to
keep in step with the new systems and equipment being introduced on the rail-
way.  On another manpower problem, N de 1'1 and the Governnent are now explor-
ing the feasibility of providing N de M's staff with general Social Security
coverage; this would in particular enable N de M to retire its staff mortc
easily than at present and in general progressively reduce N de M's staff
costs. As part of the PLan of Action under this Project, N de M will prepare



- 14 -
a comprehensive manpower plan analyzing the manpower effects of the new
equipment being introduced and addressing itself to the above matters (Para.
2(b), Schedule 5, Loan Agreement).
Traffic
(i) Freight
44.       Although the relative share of N de M in total intercity freight
movement has decreased since the early 1960's because of strong road transport
competition, N de M freight tonnage has increased in absolute terms by 6
percent per annum since the latter half of the 1960's, reaching 51.5 million
tons in 1974. Because of an increase in the average haul from about 450 km
in the early 1960's to more than 500 km in 1974, the rate of growth of freight
ton-km has been even higher, at 6.5 percent per annum over the period 1961-
1974, with traffic growing from 11 billion ton-km to about 25 billion ton-km.
Since 1970, ton-km growth has further accelerated to almost 9 percent per
annum, much of the increases coming from shipments of industrial and mineral
products, mainly iron ore. Together, industrial and mineral products ship-
ments now account for about 60 percent of the total traffic. Another 20
percent is composed of agricultural products shipments (mostly corn, wheat
and sorghum), with inorganic, petroleum and other products making up the
remaining 20 percent.
45.       Major ongoing expansions in the steel and cement industries will
contribute to further traffic growth by 1980. The railways' share of total
oil and oil products shipments is, on the other hand, expected to remain low
(less than 3 percent in terms of ton-km in 1974); large increases in the
movement of crude, gas and refined oil products, due to increases foreseen
in oil production, will take place mostly by pipeline; however, further traffic
would accrue to N de M from production increases in related sectors such as
fertilizers and petrochemicals. Overall, freight ton-km are expected to
increase by about 7.8 percent per annum over the period 1974-1980, iron ore
and steel shipments accounting for about two-thirds of the increase. Shipments
of minerals, steel related products, fertilizers and bulk cereals will remain
an essentially captive traffic where the railway has a clear cost advantage
over road transport.
(ii) Passengers
46.       Passenger traffic over N de M has fluctuated from 34 million pas-
sengers and 3.1 billion passenger-km in 1966 to a high of 35 million pas-
sengers and 3.5 billion passenger-km, respectively, in 1969; and to a low
of 25 and 3.1, respectively, in 1974. This indicates an average decrease
in the number of passengers of 3.8 percent per annum over the period 1966-
1974; passenger-km have, however, not decreased, on average, reflecting an
increase in average distance travelled from 91 km to 124 km in 1974. Sub-
urban traffic, concentrated in the Mexico City area, is negligible.
Network, Equipment and Productivity
47.       Of N de M's 14,000 km network, 97 percent is standard gauge and 3
percent is narrow gauge; main traffic routes total about 7,600 km. The main



- 15 -
routes connecting the central region to the sea ports were built in the last
century with steep gradients and sharp curves; some of these routes now pre-
sent major operating and maintcnance problems under progressively increasing
gross tonnage of traffic; some regrading and realignment works are necessary
on these sections. N de M is proceeding with a program of track renewal on
its main lines to accommodate the increasing traffic and heavier axle loads.
Secondary lines are being renovated with recovered rail and a program for
track maintenance improvement is under way.
48.       N de M has about 1,000 diesel locomotives.   Over the period 1976-
1979, about one-fourth of these will have to be withdrawn for scrapping on an
age/condition basis and about 300 higher horsepower locomotives will be
introduced. The freight car fleet of about 26,000 units is relatively modern
and of good design. However, to cater for the projected increase in traffic
and reduce the use oE cars rented from US railways, new cars will be ordered
at the rate of about 2,500 per year from 1976 through 1979. Almost half of
the 1,400 passenger cars fleet is overaged, but minimum investments to replace
overaged stock are foreseen because of the poor competitive position of the
railways for serving most intercity passenger traffic. The maintenance of
locomotives and of a large proportion of the car fleet has been reorganized
and substantially improved by N de M since 1972 with the assistance of consult-
ants.
49.       Since 1970, N de M has combined the introduction of higher horse-
power locomotives with an increase in freight train and in average car loads.
A car control system has been introduced at Valle de Mexico, near Mexico City,
the railway's largest yard, and will be extended to other yards. Locomotive
utilization is improving and will continue to do so as the program for unit
and through trains, recently introduced, is expanded. The modern telecommuni-
cations facilities included in this project will also permit better control
of rolling stock and operations.
50.       Because detention ot cars in terminals and intermediate yards has
increased, freigh cars turnaround time deteriorated over the period 1970-1973.
Combined with accelerated traffic ,-,owth after 1970, poor freight car usage
caused N de M to rely increasingly on cirs rented from the U. S. railways.
Yard and operational improvements as well as the introduction of unit and
through trains have recently improved car utilization and reduced the use of
U.S. cars. However, rurther gains in productivity are essential to make
N de M more cost effective aid to improve service; a number of key productivity
targets have therefore becn included in the Plan of Action under this Project.
(Para. 1, Schedule 5, Loan Agreement.)
N de It Finances
51.       (1)   The Financial Picture Up to 1974.   N de M's financial results
l1Ave deteriorated gradually over the period 1964-1974. The net operating
loss increas.sd fivc times, reaching Mex$2,218 million in 1974.   This situa-
tion arose largely because: (a) on the revenue side, freight rates were last
iicreased in 1959; and, (b) on the expenditure side, staff costs steadily



- 16 -
-increased after the mid 60's; other working costs and interest charges also
increased at a fast pace after 1973.   Overall, the operating ratio steadily
worsened and peaked at 173 in 1974, compared to 149 in 1970 and 128 in 1964.
Most of the net deficit has been financed by the Government through periodic
subsidies.
52.       Passenger services, while contributing only 5 percent of total
revenues, continued to generate a very large share of operating deficits.
A traffic costing study of N de M's operations in 1974, made by Bank staff
in conjunction with the appraisal of the proposed Project, showed that
passenger services accounted for more than four-fifths of the total gross
loss, defined as long-run variable costs minus operating revenues.
53.      (ii)   Action and Prospects.   Effective January 1, 1975, the Govern-
ment approved substantial freight and express rate increases for N de M. As
a consequence, freight revenues covered long-run variable costs and a part of
fixed costs in 1975. Total revenues have increased in 1975 by 55 percent,
resulting in a dramatic improvement of the operating ratio to 136 from 173
in 1974.
54.       Since mid-1974, the Government and N de M also have taken satis-
factory action in respect of passenger services. First, in February 1975,
passenger fares were increased by 22 percent on the average. Secondly, out
of the 54 passenger services in ope-ration in late 1974, N de M has already
discontinued 14 uneconomic services and the Government has approved in late
1975 and early 1976 the elimination of an additional 10 services, which
N de M will discontinue in 1976.
55.       During negotiations, the Government agreed to compensate N de M
every year for the losses due to passenger services and low density branch
lines and to specifically identify in its budget the amount paid on such
account (Section 3.03, Guarantee Agreement). This will enable the Government
to better identify the burden it incurs by letting N de M continue to operate
these uneconomic services and lines. This will also eliminate the possibility
of internal cross subsidies from freight services, the financial results of
which are expected to continue to improve in the future. N de M will also
(i) review annually the operating and financial status of its passenger serv-
ices and take appropriate action (such as rationalization, and/or disconti-
nuance of uneconomic services and/or fare increases) to progressively reduce
the losses therefrom (Section 5.06(i), Loan Agreement); and (ii) conduct
periodic cost analyses of its low density branch lines and recommend to the
Government that it either permit abandoment of uneconomic branch lines or
continue to pay compensation (Para. 2(c), Schedule 5, Loan Agreement).
56.       Future prospects are dependent on the growth of freight traffic and
of operating costs, and on the timely fulfillment of the Plan of Action, par-
ticularly the financial and productivity targets included therein (Para. 1,
Schedule 5, Loan Agreement). The progress made in implementing the Plan of
Action will be reviewed annually and the Government and N de M will take
prompt action as required, including inter alia the revision of tariffs, fares
and other charges (Section 3.01(c), Loan Agreement and Section 3.02, Guarantee
Agreement). Under the agreed Plan, N de M would achieve an operating ratio of



- 17 -
110 in 1979 and should be able by 1983 to meet all operating expenses and
interest charges, and by 1986, to cover operating expenses and debt service
charges (Para. 4, Schedule 5, Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
57.       N de M, assisited by suitable consultants, will carry out the Pro-
ject. N de M plans to utilize local consultants to assist in the design and
preparation of documents for its bridge strengthening, general works con-
struction and operational improvement programs. Provision has also been made
for consultants to continue technical assistance in the areas of telecommuni-
cations and car/train operational control.
Procurement
58.       All goods financed by the proposed loan would be procured through
international competitive bidding.    There are now no local manufacturers
for the items the proposed loan would help finance; the possibility of any
local cost financing is therefore remote. Nevertheless, should any bids
be made by local suppliers, they would be granted, for the purpose of bid
comparison, a margin of preference of 15 percent on CIF prices or the prevail-
ing custom duty, whichever is lower. Tenders have already been called for the
new radio communication system and the orders placed with firms in the United
States and Japan (no retroactive financing is envisaged, as part of this
system will be financed under the Second Railway Loan). About 5,300 freight
cars in the Project will be manufactured by Constructora Nacional (CN), a
state-owned enterprise, the imported components of these cars being financed
by the proposed loan. ON is an efficient enterprise producing cars of good
quality on a commercial basis. Contractual arrangements between N de M and CN
will continue to be closely supervised and monitored by the Government through
a special commission of the Ministry of Finance set up for this purpose. This
commission ensures, on t:he one hand, that CN has a steady work load and, on
the other, that N de M obtains a fair deal in respect of prices for and
delivery schedule of freight cars. This system of supervision and monitoring
works well; in particular freight car prices in recent years have been reason-
able and in accord with international price levels. This arrangement will
continue in the future.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursements would be made on the basis of CIF costs for imported
goods, and, should bids be made and won by local suppliers under ICB, on the
basis of 100% of the ex-factory costs. The Bank will also disburse against
the full foreign exchange costs of consulting services.
Project Justification
60.       An economic analysis was made for the Five-Year Investment Plan, of
which the present two-year Project is an integral part, because most of the
benefits from the Project will accrue fully only if related investments in the
Plan are carried out. Separate economic analyses were undertaken for six



- 18 -
investment categories into which the Plan is divided, accounting for 89 per-
cent of total costs (track renewal, track rehabilitation, realignments and
bridges, locomotives and rolling stock, shop equipment and telecommunications
and signalling). Generally, the direct effect of these investments, asso-
ciated with productivity gains resulting from implementing the Plan of Action,
will be to enable N de M to carry at reduced cost increasing traffic volumes
which would otherwise have to be transported by road at higher economic cost.
Economic rates of return for the above investment categories vary from 14 to
35 percent. Based on these results, and considering the remaining invest-
ments as overhead, the Plan would yield an economic rate of return of 17
percent. A sensitivity analysis indicates that in the event of an increase
in costs of 15 percent, the Plan as well as its components, would still be
economically justified.
61.       The implementation of the Plan of Action under the Project would
ensure that freight tariffs will be progressively set and maintained at an
economic level while uneconomic passenger lines will be identified as such
and, if necessary, will be rationalized or discontinued, with due regard to
social considerations and to the availability of alternative means of trans-
portation. Efficiency of operations will continue to improve through better
utilization and availability of locomotives and rolling stock. This would
lower operating costs and also reduce the needs for foreign cars and the
associated foreign exchange costs. Overall, N de M's financial position is
expected to show continued improvement, which will in turn free more govern-
ment resources for use in other sectors.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank, Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and Nacional Financiera, S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement be-
tween United Mexican States and the Bank, the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and
the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the draft loan and
guarantee agreements of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 50,
55 and 56 of this Report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page I of 4~
OuMi DATA - NfCOC
MU7,5       l                                                                                    Eloa(i-17)NSIT
1, 972,547 km 2            W     lli.n (aid-1972)                               ~   ~~~~~~~~~Per heof arable land
SOCIAL flDICAIOR
Reference Coutries
W3 PER8 CAPITA US$ (ATLAS Nesia1 A                                 .75           750 Z_.         610 Z&        770 /   ~   1,210 /
DEDGROAPMC
TRW1Tth rate (per thouBsr.d)                                     4.6           l                3841_        30            19 Ab I
crude death rate (per thao.sacd                                  U6L3o                          1              9 a95 7               .
Infant mortality rate (per thousan   live births)                76 Id. mc      61 9a.ac       1100   .       799          15 lab.]
Life expectancy at birth (yearo)                                 58            63   O           63     ~      63 /b         70
Gross rtprod.tiou rate f                                        3.23.                            :
Population growtb rate - urban                                    5A55I. 
Ag.     .ia    (paerrat)
0-214                                                        4..            46               1.2ab         3928
15-61                                                          52            50   , a         55559                      63
6   dover                                                   4.1. ab                        36                          9
Urban popelatio,. as poroant oj'toa                              51            62 /1h..b        58 /i.ab      76 /,j        19 /c.k
pasdly planning,  N~ of accep'ors cmumlative (thous.)           ...                            250
Zo. of user,, (5 of ,oarriad .men)            ...                             .6
PE   N    .,bo   force (thousands)                            11,300         13,000          29.600 /O      3,000 Lp      2,700 /
Pero5ntaga employed in agri,ultore                             5. /m         1.0              441           19 /         28 /
Prerantage unemployd                                          *.1                              2 Is.O.,L                  1 'p. se
r om r no  fina income received by highest 5%               29 /g.        3h6    t         33           30 g
percent of notional incom received by highest 20%                59             1   iI          62 /          57 
Percent of notional incoome recevd by lovest 20%                  1.ae            .       t      3  g          5   i
ecn  f national ncome, reoivd by lowest 4.0%                10             II    t~        10 /          13  s
MSI8To       OF LAND OWNERSHIP
S  ~  ytop 10% or ownersa..
% Owned by osalleet 10% of owner....
W      MruaIon pe physician                                    1,80  /y      11102,070                  ~   2,2    p        770
Population per nusm  g  erso                                  269           1,:570           2,9O,~1       5,170 ~~
population per hospital bed                                     590 /s         810  ,          260           250          190
Per capita calorie supply em % of requirement. /5               107 /y        11               109           101          107
Per cepita Protein mopPly, totjI (gre.a per day) A               65   i         65              61.           71           81
Of which, animal mnd Pulse                                     29  s         28Ln             39            32           1.0 Lf
Death rote 1-1. years                                            11.           U               .               3/t        0.9
'1CATd            c~picymhool nrcl.lment ratio                    82            101. /ad         130 ZaIjLe   119 /-.ad      83
-djuse        eodrysho          nolmn        i                     9            23               27 /ad        29           1.9
Ter o  looling provided, firet andsecod level                12             12              13            22           1lb
Vocational enrollment as % of sec. school enrollment             21.            21./            17            33           20
Adclt litsracy rates%                                            62 /.f.aa     81.              68            90     "     91.Aoof.M
wODIM
rvyaeNo. of perason  per roomt (uream)                      2.6   .       2.2 L.           1.01.3               a
Percenttof o     cupied uodt. witho,t Piped water                76            61               go,,~ 67.  aso  1  ..0   k
AcceBs to  letr Icit, (me % Of total population)                ..59                            4.7= 8           /
Percent of dural populatimn connected to ealectricity            .2 8 ~                             pj        0 p
..           pee r  1000OD population                         95           31a62/                         11.9  o      210 Z.,
Paasengr cars per 100   poplatIOn                                oi.t..         28              29c           19     ~     95
I7Laotrio Power consumption (kwh P-c)                           33d~C          662 :!'*h            a         9      a    1L
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                          228 .87                        21.3 .        5.7/       1,9.60
Notse, Figure      refer either to ths latest periods or to          aoeoifanroetal tesperaTura            by eleights, n
the latest years. latest periods r,fer in principle in               distribution by age and Box of national populations.
the Year. 1956-60 or 1966-70; the lntest yearo in pr.ci-        /6. I raisi  standard. (req.iremente) for    1 al cuntr~i.o -as  etab-
ciple in 1960 end 1970.                                              Uihad by t08DA Economi Rasearc.h SsvIco. preside for a sinimu
/L The Per Capita GNP setinute is ..t maerket Prices for           alowance of 60 grmn.. of total protein per day, andA 20 grams of
years other than 1960, calculete,; by the asse conversion        a.inml and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be aninal
technique as the 1972 World Bnil Lilas.                          pretein. Thewe stwAnards "ar  ewhat lower tha     these of 75
/2 Average numter of daughters per woeen of roproduotive             grazz of total protein and 23 grass of animal protein as an
age.                                                             average for the world, proposed by PLO in the Third World Food
/L Population growth rates are for the deco.des ending in          Survey.
1960 cod 1970.                                               /7 Som   atudies have euggeot.d that crude death rate. of children
Ratio of population under 15 azntI 65 and over to popula-           age. 1 through 4. may be used as a first approximatiofi index of
timn of ages 15-61 for age depetdnecy r5tio and to lahor          malnutrition.
force of nags 15-61. for economic dependency retio.           /j  Percentage enrolled of corrempoding populatico of school gag
LiLAO referen   standards repreast pbysiological e-               aso dmfined for mach country.
VA"D.amots fo     r aoul activit-y ead health, taking
/a   1972;' L     1965-70;   /c   Estimate;   /d  1959;    Li. 1970-75 UN ectimete;    Lf  1969-70;   /L   1960-72;   /h  Localities
of 2,500 or mmre    U3 rbs.n ad suburban mones Of administrative centere of municipalities and 'districts;
Populated centers whA.     have definite urban characteristics contributed by csrtain public and municipal. se-ice.;
localities of 10,000 or cor   Lhbabitanta;    a   Excluding Cent& an   Melilla;    La  1960-731   Lin 1961.-66;   /O  T'his
conpaer with the Bank Atlas ligure of US530 for 1972. The Atlas figure does not reflect recent revision in natioral
accounts which has resulted 1.. 20 percent increase in estimates of GD9j      &5  1971;   Li  Based on 1.3 percent sample
tabulation of census returns, excluding Indian Jungle population;      &L  19637;   Hi ouseholds;     /t  1969;    /   1968;
jy   1961;    /.  Peraconnl in geve:,nmsnt services;   /-   Nunber on the register, not all werking in the country;         Hospital
poreonnel;   /z   1962;   /58  1961462;    Zlb  1973;   Lea   Regiatered only;   /ad   Gossa enrollment which includes
overage students;    /as  Net mcrollmant raLtios in 1971 were 81. percent and 18 percent for basic and secondary education,
reopectively;    /5f  Definition unhmown;    /5U  15 yeare end over;    /5h  Data refer to living quarters;     /al 1961-62;j
Data refer in housing units;    /-k   Data ref ar to households;   /el  Estimate based on sample tabulation of census
returac; data refer to dwelling.;     /m   Inside or outside;    /-p Including sendta-perennt dwellings;      /a.  Inside only;
/  191.5-62;   5j&  Includes nurses, nurees with midwifery qualifications; miwfeyed nursig au             ariea    / r   Incluee
vehicles operated by police or, other governmental security orgenisatiuns;     Aak Six years and over;      /at  Ton yeurc
end overl   /ou   1959-61.
aSpain has been selected as an objective, coutr-y because its par capita incom is higher then Mexico, and hemusee bu,th
countries hotve in co0n the Import-ace of touriss and the influenc of nearby, rilaber countries.
PI. September U1, 1975



ANNEX I
FSqRofh 4
MEXICO: Economic Development Data Sheet
Actual             Prelim.    Estimates                                Growth Rates                    As   of   Y0
1960      1965     1T970    -1974-       1975      1                   161c966       19-71   1976  TlY        10g     197     10
-          -          -         - --  -                                 1965  1970    1975   1980   1985      _
National Accounts                                           CoStat    97-1969 Averag,e P5rice s.  $Millions
Gros DmsiPrdc15726                             2,4.      310.1     39,41.    '0995.    51372     7,67.7        7.1    6.9    5.7    4.6    7.5      99.8   100.3   100.4
GainS from Terms of Trade                26.3      -6o.6      -5.0    -330.4     -71.8    -177.6     -249.4      --  -39.3   70.41  19.9    7.0       0.2    -0.3     -o.4
Gross Domestic Income                15,798.9   22,189.2  31,082.1  39,088.5  40,923.9  51,139.6  73,418.3      7.0    6.8    5.7j   4.6    7.5     100.0   100O.0  100.0
Imports (including N.F.S.)            1,910.1    2,126.5   3,1-17.7  3,974.1   4,069.4   4,030.6    5,779.9     2.2    8.i    5.5   -0.2    7.5      12.1     9.6      7.9
Export (Import Capacity)              1,683.6    2,000.4   2,505.5   3,203.9   2,850.1   4,305.9    7,473.4     3.5    4.6    2.6    8.6   21.7      10.7     9.0      8.4
Resoure Gap                             226.5      126.1     612.2     870.2   1,219.3    -275.3  -1,693.5    -11.1   37.2   14.8     --   43.8       i.4     o.6     -0.5
Consumption                          12,775.6  17,866.2   25,445.8  32,193.2  34,067.1  40,600.9  56,254.6      6.9    7.3    6.o    3 6    6.7      8O.9    80.5     79.4
Investment                            3,249.8    4,449.1   6,248.5   7,765.5   8,076.1  10,263.4  15,470.2      6.5    7.0    5.'.   4.9    8.6      20.5    20.1     20.1
Gross Domestic Savings                3,023.4    4,323.0   5,636.3   6,895.3   6,856.8  10,538.7  17,163.7      7.4    5.5    i. c   9.0   10.3      19.1    19.5     20.6
Gross Netio.ss  Savings               2,950.0    4,146.8   5,191.4   6,288.1   6,204.7   9,644.1   16,513.5     7.1    4.6    3.6    9.2    i1.4     18.-7    18.7    18.9
Trade is Goods and N.F.S.                                                Current Prices, US$ Mil-lions                                                 As % uS Total
1imports
Food                                     17.6       25.4      33.7     525.1     632.6     358.0      457.4     7.6    5.8   79.8  -io.8    5.0       1.2      1.0     3.0
Petroleumi and Products                  34.o       23.9      44.1     382.0     161.o       0.0       0.0     -'*.8  13.0   29.6     -_    0.0       2.2     1.3      0.0
Other Goods                              917.6   1,236.0   2,274.4   5,i85.1   6,002.4   8,933.1   18,51o.(     6.1   13.0   21.4    8.3   15.7       59.5    66.5    75.9
Nos-Fsctor Services                     572.3      792.3   1,064.7   1,671.4   1,721.6   2,481.5    4,563.5     6.7    6.1i10.1i     7.6   13.0      37.1     51.2    21.1
Total Imports                         1,541.5    2,077.6   3,416.9   7,763.6   8,517.6  11,772.6   23,531.6     6.2   10.5   20.0    6.7   14.9     100.0    100.0   100.0
Exports
Selected Agricultural Goods             304.5      441.3     421.8     609.3     510.7     967.6   1,714.7      7.7   -0.9    3.3)  13.6   12.1      22.1    15.4      7.7
Petroleum mand Products                  20.6       4o.i      38.4     124.0     438.4   1,036.7    2,341.8    14.3   -0.9   62.8   i8.8   17.7       1.5      1.4     8.2
Selected Minerals                        92.5      77.9       91.5     212.0     155.4     442.2     879.4     -3.4    3.3   11.2   23.3   14.7       6.7      3.3     3.5
Manufacturers                           101.5      206.8     353.5   1,212.2   1,146.7    3,305.5  10,606.3    15.3   11.3   26.5,  23.6   26.3        7.4    12.9    26.3
Other Goods                             285.6      353.6     442.5     841.5     80a.6   1,189.7    1,668.5      .     4.6   12.7    8.2    7.0      20.7     i6.1.    9.5
Non-Factor Services                     572.5      792.3   1,397.7   3,064.7   2,92-1.7  5,635.0   13,215.7     6.7   12.0   15.8   14.i   18.6      4i.6     50.9    44.8
Total Exports                         1,377.2   1,912.0    2,745.4   6,o63.7   5,965.5  12,576.7  30,426.4      6.8    7.5   16.8   16.1   19.3     100.0   100.0   100.0
Trade indices                                                           Aversge 1967-196  = 100
Export Price Iaden                       83.1       92.8     109.4     176.6    204.2    280.5        394.0     2.2    3.4   13.3    6.6    7.0
Import Price Tndex                       80.7       97.7     105.,     195.4     209.3     292.1      407.1     3.9    2.3   13.8    6.9    6.9
Terms of Trade                          103.0       95.0      99.8      90.4      97.5      96.0       96.8    -1.6    1.0   -0 '    0.3    0.2
Export Volume                            69.9       86.9     105.9     i44.8     123.2     189.0      325.6     4.5    4.o    o.l    8.9   11.5
Value Added by Sector                                                 Consstsnt 1967-1969 Average Prices: US$ Millions
Primar..y                              2,760.2   3,417.6   4,025.1       .         ..         .        ..       4.4    3.4                  ..        17.5    13.0       -
Secondary                             14,353.2   6,717.2  10,415.5       .         ..         .        ..       9.1    9.2                  ..        27.6    33.5 
Tertiary                               8,659.9  12,115.0  16,646.5       ..        .         ..         .       7.0    6.0o.                          54.9    52.5       -
Total (coP)                           15,772.6  22,249.8  31,087.1       .         ..         .        ..       7.2    7.0    5.9     4.7    6.2     100.0   100.0    200.0
Consolidated Public Sector Financeal]                                 Constant 1967-1969 Average Prices; Oi$ million                                     Is.  of GCY
Current Receipts     21                          2,554.5   3,503.7    4,677.8   5,358.0   8,837.4  13,566.4      -     6.5    8.9    10.5    9.0        -     11.3     17.3
Currcnt Expenditures-                      -     1,955.5   2,511.1   4,i84.8   '5,526.2   5,637.2   7,845.2      -     5.1   17.1    0.4     6.8        -      8.1     11.0
Public Savonga                             -       599.0     992.6     493.0     -167.2   3,200.2   5,721.2      -    lo.6     .      ..    12.3        -      3.2      6.3
Resources for Investment                   -       651.8   1,074.1     532.4     -124.3   3,302.4   5,867.9      -    10.5     .      ..    12.2        -      3.5      6.5
Investment                                 -     1,462.2   1,718.5    3,194.1   3,704.1   3,933.4   6,103~.2     -     3.3   16.6     1.2    9.2        -      5.5       7.7
Deficit (net)                              -       8io.4     644.4   2,661.7    3,828.4     631.0     235.3      -    -4.5   42.8   -30.3  -27.9        -      2.0      1.2
Allocataon of Consolidated                                                                                                                               As   of Total
Public Sector Erpendotures                                                                                                                            1970    1975    1980
Agriculture                                -         -       708.2   2,168.2    2,725.2       -         -                                              8.6    15.9       -
Industry                                   -         -     2,939.0   4,625.3    5,525.0       -         -     ..                                      '6. '.  32.4       -
Social Welfare                             -         -     2,001.8   3,163.1    3,584.9       -         -.24.'                                                21.0       -
Transport and Cuomuications                -         -       954.6   1,294.6    1,708.3       -         -                                    ..      1i.8     10.0       -
General Administration and Others          -         -     1,488.1    2,377.0   3,528.5       -         -                                             i. 1.4  20.7       -
Total V/                                   -         -     8,091.7  13,628.2   17,071.9       -         -                     ..      .      .       100.0   100.0       -
Selected Indicators                                                                                                                              Period Averages
1961     1966     1971      1976     1981
1965     1970      1975     1982     1985
TCOR                                       2.42      2.91      2.89       3.28      4.93      3.25      2.62     ..               2.90      3.20     3.63     4.32     2.94
Ixport Elasticity                          1.20      0.75      1.51       3.22      o.6o      o.88      1.05                      0.s1      1.i6     0.96    -0.04,    1.00
Marginal Savings Ratio                     o.48     -0.16      -0.24     -0.10     -0.05      0.37      0.28                        .19     0.13     0.10     0_35     0.31
Labor Force and Olutput per Worker                                    Total Labor Force                                     Value Added per Worker (1967-69 Average Prices)
In Millions          A%of Total           1960-1970                                       *Aer~
Agrie.iture  ~ ~        ~       ~       96         4701960               1970     Growth Rate                   7Q12              196192            Growth Nate
AgIcdulture                                                    7 51-       50.5       3.          T  C                      511.2     789.2    3.        3
Industry                               ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~~~2.1  3.0  19.6  23.1  3.6                  2,073.0  3,471.6   140.6     145.2         5.3
Services 4/                                          3.2        49j1      29.9        37.7         4.4                    2 706.0  3,396.2    183.6    i42.0         2.3
Total                                 ~~~~~       ~~~~~    ~~~~10.7  13.0  100.0  100.0  2.0
N ot available
Rot applicable
Includes Federal Government, Federal District, Social Security Agencies, Rudgetary Controlled Enterprises and Decentralized Agencies (net Savings and
investment expenditures) and deficit.
o/ Includes es-ira-system transfers and the deficit financing of part of the son-budgetary controlled Public Sector.
YIncludes total expenditures of ihe Budgetary Controlled Elnterprises and Decentralized Agencies and debt mortic-tion.
/ Includes unallocted labor force.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(us$ million at current prices)
Actual        Prelimin       Estimates                       ProJections
1970      1973      17            1975            1976            197             10
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including N.F.S.)               2,745.4   4,602.4    6,o63.7      5,965.5        6,869.7         8,889.7         12,576.7
Imports (including N.F.S.)              -3,416.9  -5,236.8   -7,763.6     -8,517.6       -8,767.8         -9,350.7        11,772.6
Resource Balance                          -671.5    -634.4   -1,699.9     -2,552.1       -1,898.1           -461.0           804.1
Interest (net)                            -301.3    -563.0     -908.5     -1,107.4       -1,420.9         -1,972.8        -2,254.2
Direct Investment Income                  -:267.5   -419.8     -549.1       -535.0         -535.0           -664.3          -842.4
Workers Remittances                        L22.7     140.4      158.1        162.5           178.8           228.7           286.9
Current Transfers (net)                     55.3      74.5      113.4        115.0          125.0            156.o           196.7
Balance on Current Account              -1,062.3  -1,402.3   -2,886.0     -3,917.0        -3,550.2        -2,712.6        -1,808.9
Private Direct Investment                  322.8     456.3      678.1        585.0          550.0            950.0         1,204.7
Public M and L.T. Loans
a.  Disbursements (gross)                781.5   1,948.5    2,968.8      4,070.1        4,061.6         4,333.5          4,124.3
b.  Repayments                          -174.7    -800.9     -541.8       -809.2          -964.o        -2,695.9        -3,526.9
c.  Disbursements (net)                  '-o6.8  1,147.6    2,427.0      3,260.9        3,097.6          1,637.6           597.4
Other Capital                              534.8     -79.3     -182.2         71.1          -500.0           200.0            81.8
a.  Public short-tern                     59.0     596.0      642.0        570.0          300.0           -100.0          -300.0
b.  Other Capital n.e.i.                 475.8    -675.3     -824.2       -498.9          -800.0           300.0           381.8
Change in Reserves (- = increase)         -102.1    -122.3      -36.9          -             402.6           -75.0           -75.0
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC M AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                       146.8     270.0      289.0        360.0              -               --
IDA                                                    -          -            -
Other Multilateral                         1:12.3     89.5      102.0        110.0              -               -               -
Governments                                 81.0     476.o      129.7        165.6              -               -
Suppliers                                   69.7      60i2      118.0        248.4              -               -               -
Banks and Financial Institutions           414.4   1,918.2    2,085.1      2,999.1              -               -               -
Bonds                                        -       104.6      100.0        160.0              -               -               -
Total                                      844.1   2,918.5    2,823.8      4,043.1              -               -               -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                        EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                                                                           Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                       3,226.9    5,577.0    8,oo4.o     11,264.9                                  on Dec. 31, 1974
Interest on Public Debt                    215.9     359.4      576.1        715.8
Repayments on Public Debt                  474.7     800.9      541.8        809.2                              $ Millions        Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                  '224.3     203.6      332.4        391.6
Total Debt Service (net)                   915.9   1,363.9    1,450.3      1,916.6            Public M & L.T.
Burden on Exports Earnings (%)1                                                                 Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                   24.0      24.5       18.0         24.9
b.  Total Debt Service                    3;.8      28.8       23.3         31.3            IBRD                  973.2            12.2
c.  Total Debt Service and Direct                                                           IDA                      -               -
Investment Income                    44.8      37.6       32.1         40.0            Other Multilateral    441.1            5.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                  Governments           979.8             7.2
a.  Interest as % of prior years                                                            Suppliers             323.4             4.o
D.O. and D.                           7.4       8.1       10.3          8.9            Financial
b.  Amortization as % of prior                                                                Institutions      4,647.1            58.1
years D.O. and D.                    16.3      18.1        9.7         10.1            Bonds                  573.4            7.2
IBRD'Exposure                                                                                 Public Debt n.e.i.    446.o             5.8
a.  IBRD Debt 0. and D. as % of
Public Debt O. .and D.               18.0      14.5       12.2          9.4            Total Public
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of                                                                 M & L.T. Debt      8,004.0          100.0
Public Debt Service                   7.8       7.6        8.4          7.3
IDA Exposure                                 -         -          -             -
- Not available.
1/ Includes workers remittances



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
MEXICO: SOURCES AND SECTORAL ALLOCATION OF PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT CONTRACTED 1969-1974
(Thousands of US Dollars)
Suppliers     Private      Publicly      Other       International     Gover-ment     Total      Percent
Banks        Issued      Private     Organizations                                 of
Bonds                                                                 Total
Agriculture. Forestry and FishinR             19,793       28.238         0           0            54 .067             0         593,098      6.3
- Agriculture                                   0          15,000         0           0             23,100             0          38,100
- Agriculture, Livestock                        0          10,129         0           0            410,477             0         420,606
- Fishing                                     19,793        1,109         0           0               0                0          20,902
- Ocean, Coastal Fishing                        0           2,000         0           0               0                0           2,000
- Other                                         0           0             0           0            111,490             0         111,490
Mining and Quarrying                           2,980      582.601       20.000      105.750           0              17.175      728.506      7.7
- Coal                                           513        0             0           0               0                0            513
- Crude Petroleur, Gas                         2,395      400,680       20,000      105,750           0               2,828      531,653
- Metal Ore Mining                                72      165,500         0           0               0              11,134      176,706
- Other                                         0          16,421         0            0              0               3,213       19,634
Manufacturing                                293.742      611,631         0         226,897          9.000           232,731   1.374,001      14.6
- Food Manufacturing                           2,396         0            0            0              0               1,317        3,713
- Textile Manufacturing                          115       24,614         0           0               0                 637       25,366
-Paper                                           254         0            0            0              0                 416          670
- Printing                                     1,338         416          0           0               0                0           1,754
- Chemicals                                    6,707        6,300         0            0              0              12,054       25,061
- Fertilizers, Pesticides                       0          26,000         0           0               0                0          26,000
- Petroleum Refining; Gas; Oil                83,701      232,034         0          90,897           0               6,719      413,351
- Plastics                                       136         0            0            0              0                0             136
-Glass                                          0             255         0            0              0                0             255
- Iron and Steel                               8,909      254,447         0          96.000           0             157 528      516 884
- Metal Machinery                                 16       26,866         0     0                     0              34,490       61,372
- Metal Products NEL                            0             169         0            0              0                0             169
- Non-Electrical Machinery                    68,890         0            0            0              0               1,692       70,582
- Basic Metals                                  0          30,066         0            0              0               4,160       34,226
- Transport Equipment                        121,114       10,368         0            0              0              11,018      142,500
- Other                                          166           96         0          40,000          9,000            2,700       51,962
Electric Pover and Water Supply               49.359      809,297       30.000      222,428        353,823           203,146   1,668,053      17.7
- Electricity, Gas, Water Production            0          65,000         0          65,000           0                0         130,000
- Electricity, Gas, Steam                     49,359      744,297       30,000      157,428        250,000           203,146   1,434.230
- Water (Non-Agric.)                            0            0            0            0           103,823             0         103,823
Tourism                                         0            0            0            0            44,029             0          44.029       0.5
Transport and Coc=unications                  75,396      511.087       32.486      106.350        279.312           199,915   1.204.546      12.8
- Transport, Storage and Co-unications          0          48,000         0          15,000         47,512             0         110,512
- Land Transport                              40,771      380,366       32,486       88,580        186,800          127,734      856,737
- Ocean, Coastal Transport                     1,468       13,304         0            0            20,000            2,709       37,481
- Air Transport                                2,445       61,639         0           2,770         25,000           61,373      152,227
- Comunications - Other                       30,712        7,778         0            0              0               8,099       46,589
Financial and Monetary Institutions               29    1.099,518       27.322       55.45,000                        21,591   1.248,460      13.2
- Financial Institutions                          29      931,018       27,322       55,000         45,000           21,591    1,079,960
- Monetary Institutions                         0         168,500         0            0              0                0         168,500
Other Sector Uses                              8.312      284,933         0          31,948        174.000            4.46       503.655       5.3
- Social Perso-al Services                      0         101,000         0            0              0                0         101,000
- Public Ad,sinistration (Defenre)             4,620      155,413         0          31,948        174,000            4,393      370,374
- Education Administration                     1,265       28,451         0            0              0                0          29,716
- Medical and Dental                             873         0            0            0              0                0             873
- Military                                     1,468         0            0            0              0                0           1,468
-Radio, T.V.                                      86         0            0            0              0                0              86
- Construction                                  0              69         0            0              0                  69          138
Sector Not Specified. Multisector, etc.          509      381.379       96,856      101.202        118,161           31,914      730,021       7.7
- Sector Not Specified                           171       83,620         0          27,141           0              29,846      140,778
- Multisector                                   0         120,326         0          34,061         80,263             0         234,650
- Sector Not Identified                         338       177,433       96,856       40,000         35,935            2,068      352,630
- General Purpose                               0            0            0            0             1,963             0           1,963
Other Purposes                                  0           5,438         0          10.000           0                0          15,438      0.2
- Admin. Budget Support                         0              26         0           0               0                0              26
- Debt Relief                                   0           5,412         0           0               0                0           5,412
- Other Debt Reorganization                     0            0            0          10,000           0                0          10,000
Purpose Unknown                                5.000      724,585      103.058      196,535 1/     160.700          128,995    1.318,873     14.0
TOTAL                                        455,120    5,038,707      309,722    1,056,110      1,729,092          839,929    9,428,680 2/
Percent of Total                               4.8         53.5          3.3         11.2           18.3              8.9
1/ Includes 111,500 from Privately Placed Bonds.
2/ Does not include US$223,001 thousands of unclassified debts.



R? ' .  II
?age I of 6
T-E -STThUS OF 3ABh  GROUP_1O  '     i-PTONS TN MEXlICO
A. STPTa4lPT OF BAlNX LOANS (as at Ozinuar-; 31, 1976)
u-     .1 ''_n
Loan                                                                Amount Less
Nuuiber    Year          Bor.ro-wer                    ?Truo so     Cancel lations  UMad U;bursel
26 loan3 a fully disbursed                       1,239.9
527       1968      NacionaL Financiera, S. A.     Irrigation            25.0          1.8
695       1970      Naciona:L Financiera, S. A.    Roads                 21.8          3.6
793       1972      Nacional i.nanciera, S. A.     Tourism              22.0           8.7
820       1972      Naciona. Y'inanciera, S. A.    Ports                20.0           3.1
824       1972      Naciona]. Financiera, S. A.    Industry              35.o         12.2
825       1972      Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Me:xico and Nacional
Financiera, S. A.            Railways             75.0         12.3
909       1973      Nacional Financiera, S. A,     Water SuLpply         90.0         79.3
934       1973      Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas
- Las Truchas, S. A. and
Nacional Financiera, S. A.   Steel                70.0        1.6
968       1974      Nacional Financiera, S. A.     Roads                 90.0         86}. ?
969       1974      Nacional Financiera, S. A.     Irrigation            77.0         59.2
97C       1974      Nacional Financiera, S. A.     Irrigation            47.0         45.
1022       1974      Naconal FLnanciera, S. A.      Airports             25.o          '3.2
1053       1974      Nacional Financiera, S. A.     Integrated Rural
fDevelopment       5C.o          50.C
1110       1975      Nacional Financiera, S. A.     Integrated Rural
Dcvelopment       110.0         110.0
1111       1975      Nacional Financiera, S. A.     Irrigation          150.0         150.0
1112       1975      Guanomex and Nacional
Financi.era, S. A.           Industry             50.0          47.6
11856      1975      Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos, S. A.    Water Supply         40.0         140.0
TOTAL                                            2,237.7        745.4
Of which has been repaid                           357.6
Total now outstanding                            1,880.1
Amount sold                     76.2
of which has been repaid        53.4
22.8
Total now held by Baik                           1,857.3
Total undisbursed                                                74:4
a/ No IDA Credits havo been made to Mexico.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATFZJI;T OF IFC INVESTI.UITS (as at Januarl' 31, 1976)
US$ Filliojn
Year             Obligor                     Type of Business       Loan    EqZit   T
1958/59    Industrias Perfect Circle,        Indastrial Equipment    0.8       -    0.8
S.A. 2;/
1958       Bristol de Mexico, S.A. j         A/C Engine Overhaul     o.5       -    0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A.  /              Twist Drills            0.3       -     0.3
1962/65/   Companiia Fundidora Fierro y      Steel                   2.3     21.4   23.7
66/68       Acero de Monterrey, S.A.
1963       Tubos de Acero de Mexico,         Steel                   0.9      0.1    1.0
S.A. 1/
1963       Quimica del Rey, S.A.  /          Sodium Sulphate         0.8       -     0.8
1964/66    Industria del Hierro, S.A.        Constraction Equipment   -       2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A.            Iron Ore Mining         1.5       -     1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana. S.A.           Textiles               12.0       -    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel Periodico,     Pulp and Paper          j
S.A. de C.V.
1973       Cemento Ve.:.acraz                Cement                 10.5       -    10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel              Tourism                 i.0      0.2    1.2
1975       Mexinox, S.A.                     Steel                  12.0      3.6   15.6
Total Gross Conrnitments                                 42.6     27.3   69.9
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    15.0     21.6   36.6
lotal cormi.iuents now held by IFC                       27.6      5.7   33.3
Total Undisbursed                                       t12.0      2.9   14.9
1/ Investments i-iich have been fully canlcelled, terminated, written off, sold, redemned
or repaid.
] uS$2S5,0o0.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 527    Fourth Irrigation Project:   $25 Mi lion Loan of January 26, 1968;
Effectiveness Date: March 1. 1969. Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Civil works to be executed under the project were complei. I
by the end of 1975. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed
by the present closing date. Annual net agricultural production
values, valued in terms of 1967 prices (appraisal date) are
already at a level equal to 87% of those projected at appraisal
for full development.
Ln. No. 695    Fourth Road Project:   $21.8 Million Loan of June 26, 1970;
EffectLveness Date: October 1, 1970. Closing Date: December
31, 1976.
Seven project roads have been completed and opened to
traffic. The remaining four roads are expected to be completed
at varLous dates up to the end of 1976, or about two years be-
hind schedule. This delay was caused by the lag in budgetary
appropriations for project works and by increased quantities of
works, There have been cost increases on five of the project
roads I-or these same reasons, and also because of design revi-
sions and sharp price increases since late 1973.
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatamejo Tourism Project:   $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; lffectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
Decembtr 31. 1975.
Most project-related construction works in the Ixtapa
touristm zone were completed in 1975. A trust fund has been
organiz:ed for the provision of urban infrastructure in the town
of Zihttatanejo and the necessary works have been undertaken
since December 1974. It is now estimated that all works
related to this project will be completed early in 1976, by
which time over 500 hotel rooms should also be available in the
tourism area. Another 400 hotel rooms are expected to be in
service by the end of 1976.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 6
Ln. No. 820    Ports Project:   $20 Million Loan of May 17, 1972; Effectiveness
Date: August 17, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Progress in execution of the project continues to be satis-
factory. Various actions to insure proper operation, maintenance
and user charges are being discussed with the government. Ap-
praisal of a second ports project based largely on studies carried
out as part of this project, is underway.
Ln. No. 824    Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:   $35 Million Loan of
June 2, 1972; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1972. Closing
Date: December 31, 1975.
After a slow start due to organizational problems, all
funds under this project were committed by June 1975.
Ln. No. 825    Second Railway Project:   $75 Million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: August 17, 1972. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Progress in implementation of the Investment Plan, procure-
ment and disbursement is satisfactory. The telecommunications
system has been redefined and expanded. Freight traffic has
increased consideraly above the levels envisioned at appraisal
time. Locomotive utilization has significantly improved.
Yard and operational improvements and the introduction of
unit and through trains have recently improved car utilization.
Out of 54 passenger services in operation in mid-1974, it is
expected that 24 will have been eliminated by July 1976.
Ln. No. 834    Fourth Power Sector Program:   $125 Million Loan of June 23, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1975.
The loan is fully disbursed. The construction program has
been delayed by over a year except for frequency unification,
which is ahead of schedule. Recently, the borrower has taken
steps to improve its overall construction performance by
strengthening its construction management and the results of
the last six months have been encouraging. The sector's
financial performance is unsatisfactory and the Government
is considering remedial measures to improve it.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Lu. No. 909:   Mexico City Water Supply Project:   $90 Hillion Loan of June 18,
1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31. 1977.
Physical execution of the project is progressing satisfac-
torily. However, disbursements from the loan account have been
delayed due to delays in the resolution of administrative arrange-
ments beitween the Mexico Valley Water Commission (the executing
agency) and the Federal Government. A sales contract between
the Water Commission and the State of Mexico, which is a con-
dition for disbursement of funds aggregating over $40 million,
has recently been signed.
Ln. No. 934    Las Truchas Steel Project:   $70 Million Loan of September 12,
1972; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project and procurement of the equipment
financed by the loan are progressing as scheduled.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Eighway ProJect:   $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effective,ness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Substantial delays have been encountered in the initiation
of project works caused mainly by shortage of budgetary alloca-
tions. The Government is aware of the need for increased bud-
getary allocations during the forthcoming years to compensate
for the delays and to cover significant cost increases; it has
assured the Bank that all efforts will be made in this respect.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuc1o Irrigation Project:  $77 Million Loan of March 1,
1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December
31, 1980.
Very good progress is being made on implementation of this
project; :lt is anticipated that irrigation service will be
initiated on a 10,000 ha unit of the Las Animas unit by early
1976. Owners of private land in the project area are largely
electing l:o be paid for their land in cash rather than by accepting
a 20 ha irrigated holding. This will make more land available for
forming ejiidos than anticipated at appraisal.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:   $47 Million Loan of March 1,
1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December
31, 1980.
Construction of the Sinaloa de Leyva Diversion Dam and the
first 17 km of the Bamoa Canal is virtually complete. Construc-
tion will start-soon on the Bacurato dam and storage reservoir, the
major feature of the project. Negotiations are still underway
between SRH and the private land owners having water rights
concerning the size of holding which may be retained by the
owner under the project. These will take time but no major
problems are foreseen at this time in project implementation.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:   $25 Million Loan of May 28, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974. Closing Date: June
30, 1978.
The first group of contracts for this Regional Airports
Development Project was awarded in November and December 1974,
for amounts averaging 15 percent above appraisal estimates in-
cluding contingencies. Because of Governmental budget con-
straints, the executing agency, SOP, has proposed a rescheduling
of the future contract awards to extend the construction period
by two years. Such an extension would add additional escalation
costs. This matter is now under discussion with the Government.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:    $50 Million
Loan of November 15. 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Ln. No. 1110   Second Integrated Rural Development Project:   $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:   $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date:  July 30, 1975.   Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
Third (N de M) Railway Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:                     Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (N de M) and
Nacional Financiera, S. A.
Guarantor:                     United Mexican States
Amount:                        US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                         Payable in 25 years, including 4 years grace at
8-1/2 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:           The Project consists of a two-year tranche, 1976
and 1977, of N de M's Five Year (1975-1979)
Investment Plan. The main Project components
are as follows:
(a) track renewal and renovation of 660 km and
400 km respectively, of principal traffic
lines;
(b) continuation of a program for reballasting
and resleepering of worn out track;
(c)  bridge strengthening and realignment and
improvement of track;
(d) drainage and earthworks for station, terminal
and marshalling yard extensions, and cons-
truction of workshops, depots and other
buildings;
(e) improvements of signalling and telecommunication
facilities;
(f) purchase of about 124 new diesel locomotives,
5,800 freightcars, 30 mail vans and 180
passenger coaches;
(g) consulting services for civil works and
operational improvement programs, and
telecommunications and car/train operational
control.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
---US$ Million-------------__
Estimated Costs:                              Local     Foreign     Total     Bank Finaneing
Track and Structures                           52.9         39.6      92.5          30.0
Construction Works                             42.2          0.2      42.             -
Signalling & Telecommunination                 16.5        25.5       42.0          15.0
Locomotives & Rolling Stock                   132.1        154.9     287.0          30.0
Consulting Services                             2.2         0.8       3.0            0.6
Total Base Cost 3stimate:                     245.9        221.0     466.9          75.6
Physical Contingency                             7.8         4.5      12.3           3.3
Price Contingency                              69.6         27.3      96.9          21.1
Total Estimated Cost                          323.3        252.8     576.1         100.0
Financing:  The projected cash flow and financing plan for 1975 - 1979, assuming
execution n- F only of the Project hut also of the Invest3tent Plan,
is as follows:
1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      Total      %
-i--------------- r-llions of 1975 Mge$-------------------
Requirements of Funds
N de M operating deficits
(excluding depreciation)     1,674     1 ,143      843       656        451     4,767     18
Debt service payments
Local                         886       829       852      1,137     1,113     4,817     18
Foreign                       748       980       947       968        846     4,489     16
Capital investment            2,492     2,669     3,103     2,411      1,172    12,457     46
other                           181       120       110        100       100       611      2
5,951     577b1       B3 5,    5,272      2-9 2   27,171    10
Sources of Funds
N de M depreciation             300       340       360        385       4oo     1,785      7
Government subsidy            3,189     2,732     2,392     2,386      2,210    12,909     48
Loans
Local                         840     1,063     1,823      1,792     1,359     6,877     25
Foreign                     1,652     1,606     1,280       709        323     5,570     2C
779T       ,7741    57,7       772-       ,292    27,141     loP



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated Disbursemenits:                Year-by-Year         Cumulative Amount
FY         (US$ Million)          (US$ Million)
76             4.1                     4.1
77            37.7                    41.8
78            42.8                    84.6
79            15.4                   100.0
Procurement Arrangements:      All goods financed under the proposed loan would
be acquired on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding. Local bidders would be granted a
margin of preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f.
price or the prevailing tariff, whichever is
lower.
Technical Assistance:          N de M will retain local consultants to assist
in the design and preparation of its bridge
strengthening, general works construction and
operational improvement programs. Foreign
consultants will provide assistance in the areas
of telecommunications, and car/train operational
control.
Rate of Return:                The economic rate of return of the Five Year
Plan is at least 17 percent.
Completion Date:               Project completion is expected by December 31,
1978.
Appraisal Report:              Report No. 957a-ME.   Dated March 15, 1976,
Regional Projects Department, Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office.






IbRD 3655R
MAY 1972
=21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'O
.                                        CDI   D PO                                                                                  E X I C 
RAILWAYS
01    100   200   000   00dfb   0  000       2.
GL/I F     OF       MEXICO
NACIONALES OE MEXICO          PUg sA
--0-*   O_ThER RAILWAYS                                                                                                                                AlPt
OD   DEL PACIFICO                                                  ,A                           I0
SONORA -BAJA CAL IFORNA             C-                                                                                                                                O./I.D.IIA
i CHIHIJAHUA AL PACIFICO                                                                                                                                                    E.....I .
U ONICOS DEL SODESTE
_____MAIN ROADS
AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                                  A
C-,
O4D S_a;ED    _1bDl,i                                                                                                                                           BR. HONDURAS
,I ,f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
/      5TDuAss00ME5~  HA5TrD  S  Ab.dDsPnd,47 ,,ao  Ibrm0 ODPb0  .D                                     - 
ODUD  DI~~~~~~~~~~~DODO1 <V' EDDaDAA ~~~~~~~~~~                                           ~~~                         ~HODUA
ove.  G>rL&sAv>ooS P  f>,__                                                                                     \      >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A0.  GUATEMALA  ./
cr                                                                         STL  RlC4<.LAS  ............ _ A . IOD-  Inoo _ _ g < 4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ < H O IiJ D U if A S0  -   0






IBRD -11844
9                           (     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NOVEMU{iR 1975
;1 1E60  '  LO:  -   9   '          '                 '         '                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g0      7
UNITEOD            STATES sOF                   AMERICA
.24-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
MEXICO                                                                                                                                       ,.
NAT O0NAL RAILROADS                                                                               ~EE,
~~RAIL FRIG hoThl TRFI              FLOW 
~FREIGNT TRAFFIC 2.5-12 MILLr,IONGOSTONSSPER ANNUM             L,R.
-..4- 1SZl-~FREIGHITTRAFFIC 08-2.5MILLIOINGROSSTONSSPER ANNUM                    SOLeR'-I .'.-OI 
rZ~\FREIGHT TRAFFICBELOWCaMILLIONG3fRSTONS PERANNUML
-. - INTERNATIONAL ROENDARIES                                                                                     T-.-oI'              A   R0~N
>nIam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W OW                                                                                         B ;  Le[EE
RAILWAY TRAFFIC DENSITY POSITION                                                                                                                             BELfE
CARRIES MOR'E TRAN 10 MILLION GRESS TONS PER YOARE 2W EM-
CARRIER MO  T   5 T  ID MILLION GROSS TOS PIER YEAR 28W KM
CARRIES MORE TR"AN25.5t00 MILLION GROSS TONS PER TEAR 4500 KR
CARRIES MORtE THAN 1.0 TO 2.5 MILLION GRS TONS PER YEAR 150 KM
CARRIES MORE THAS 1D5 TO 5.0 MILLION GROSS TONS PER YEAR 1800 KM  9   9   W R] S
CRRIES LESS THAN OS5 MILLION GORSS T-ONS PER YEAR 3100 KM  KLMTR 
M KILOMETERS                                                                              GUATiAt= o, 0
m.LES , -  pRLpI Ry R                                                                              )HONEDURAS
1140    n'I             U   D  D, 1\                                 1 2!  O     EanAeAIIs~Roo    T



