Report No. 957a-ME
Mexico: Appraisal of a
Third Railway Project                                                    FILE COPY
March 15, 1976
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                     = Peso (Mex$)
US$1                              = Mex$ 12.5
Mex$ 1                            3 US$0.08
Mex$ 1 million                       US$80,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Fquivalent
1 meter (m)                       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                   = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)              = 2,205 pounds
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR                      - American Association of Railroads
ALALC                    -  Latin America Free Trade Association
CN                       - Constrtuctora Nacional de Mexico
hacienda                 - Secretar!a de Hacienda, Secretariat of
Finance
N de M                   - Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
PFf.EX                   - Petr6leos Mexicanos
Presidencia              - Secretar!a de Presidencia-, Secretariat of
the Presidency
SCT                      - SecretarAa de Comunicaciones y Transportes,
Secretariat of Communications and Transportation
SOP                      - Secretarta de Obras Pdblicas, Secretariat of
Public Works



MEXICO             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .....................        i-iii
1.INTRODUCTION  ................... .... . .  ........    1
2.   BACKGROUND     ...    ...... .... ....                  2
A.  Economic Setting  .........*                        2
B. The Transport Sector                 . .2
C.  Transport Coordination, Policy and
Planning  ............2
D.   Outstanding Problems            ..     .           3
E.   The Search for Solutions          .. .             4
3.  THE RAILWAY SYSTEM 5 .. ..................               5
A.   Introduction  .....      .. ...     .. . I ...     5
B.   National Railways of Mexico (N de M) ....          6
4.   THE PLAN AND THE-PROJECT       ........        .        8
A. The Investment Plan .               .                8
B. The Project..                                        9
C.   The Proposed Loan               .                 12
D.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursement .         12
EF. Ecology    .                 .13
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .................... c ....       13
A.   General          ................                 13
B.   Traffic Forecasts  .      ....................    14
C. Cost-Benefit Analysis          ...                  15
D.   Overall Economic Evaluation   ......              1
6.   FINANCES  ...     .     ..........  .....................  17
A.   Financial Position  ....      .................   17
B.  Tariffs and Costs  ..        ....................  18
C.  Future Prospects  ......     .................     19
D.   Financing Plan  . ...... ..*. ............ ..     21
E.  Accounts, Budget and Audit  .............          22
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .......          23
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Mahendra Lal (Railway
Engineer), N. Rasheed (Financial Analyst), A. Soto, H. Woltman, and R. Burns
(Economists), and U. Aguirre (YP) and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.   Current Rolling Stock Data
2.   Operating Statistics
3.   Investment Plan (1975-1979) to Project (1976-1977)
4.   Project and Bank Loan
5.   Diesel Locomotive Requirements 1975-1979
6.   Freight Car Requirements 1977-1979
7.   N de M Freight Traffic in 1966, 1970, 1974 and
Forecast for 1976, 1978 and 1980
8.   Revenues, Expenses and Net Loss 1974-1979
9.   Summary Balance Sheets 1972-1979
10.   Cash Flow and Financing Plan
ANNEXES
1.   A Review of SOP Works
2.   N de M Organization Diagram
3.   Staff Data - N de M
4.   Property, Maintenance and Operations
5.   Track Renewal Program - 1975-1979
6.   N de M's Plan of Action
7.   Action Program of Second Railway Project
8.   Project Implementation Schedule
9.   Track Maintenance Machinery - 1976-1977
10.   Proposed Telecommunications Network - N de M
11.   Workshop Machinery
12.   Consultants' Services
13.   Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
14.   Economic Justification
15.   Assumptions Used in flaking Forecast Income Account
16.   Details of Financing Plan
MAPS
Map IBRD 3655R - Mexico Railways
Map IBRD 11843 - N de M P'rincipal Traffic Routes
Map IBRD 11844 - N de M Railway Track, Rail Freight Traffic Flow



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARIY AN1D CONCLUSIONS
i.        The railway system of Mexico has played a crucial role in the
development of the country by providing low cost transport for the bulk
long-haul traffic.  Mexico has relied  Ipon the railways to export, mainly
to the USA, its agricultural and rmineral products; to import machinery and
engineering hardware for its industrial centers in Monterrey, Guadalajara
and Mexico City; and to provide the means for hauling, within the country,
the agricultural produce, raw materials and manufactured goods required by
its industrial and population centers.
ii.       The implementation of the Mexican Government's plans in the agri-
cultural and industrial areas, aimed at some dispersal of the economic
activity in the country, has contributed to a rapid increase in railway traf-
fic which is expected to grow steadily over the next few years as a result of
the major expansions under way in the agricultural, steel, cement and petro-
chemical sectors.
iii.      This report appraises a project to renovate and modernize the
plant and equipment of Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (N de M), to improve
its operations and to reduce the financial deficits of the railway. N de M
is state-owned and is by far the largest railway in Mexico, operating 71% of
the route-km and carrying 80% of the total railway traffic of the country.
iv.       The proposed loan of US$100 million would be the third railway
loan to Mexico and the twelfth in the transport sector. Loan 103-ME in 1954
(US$61 million) was the first railway loan for the rehabilitation and modern-
ization of the Ferrocarril diel Pacifico. The second railway loan, 825-ME
in 1972 (US$75 million), was made to finance a project aimed at strengthening
N de M's competitive position through equipment modernization, operating
improvements and a progressive reduction of its financial deficits. Seven
highway loans totaling IfS$266.8 million have so far been given to Mexico for
construction of highways, toll roads and bridges, one loan (US$20.0 million)
for the ports and one loan (US$25.0 million) for regional airports.
v.        The second railway loan (to N de 14) enabled the railway to renovate
its track, to acquire new rolling stock, to make a start toward a modern
telecommunications network and to generally improve its financial condition
by focusing attention on the need for tariff adjustments and reduction of
passenger train deficits. Although substantial improvements were made both
in the operations and financial condition of the railway, much remains to be
done to enable N de O` to carry the increasing volumes of traffic and to
achieve financial viability.



- ii -
vi.       The proposed loan to N de M, which would be a logical followup of
the Second Railway Project, aims at: further improvements in the areas where
a beginning was made in the second project. The proposed project combines
the 1976-1977 portion of a Five-Year Investment Plan for 1975-1979, prepared
by N de M and modified in accordance with Bank recommendations, with a Plan
of Action prepared in collaboration with N de M. Investment will be mainly
for the acquisition of more rolling stock and motive power to enable N de M
to carry the increasing traffic and to reduce its dependence on foreign cars,
the improvement of track and bridges by providing heavier rails in keeping
with the heavier rolling stock, and the installation of the VHF/UHF tele-
communications network and the car zontrol system to improve the railways'
communications and control systems. Improvement and expansion of yards,
stations, and other facilities and consulting services to assist N de M in
carrying out the proposed improvements are also included.
vii.      The Plan of Action focuses attention on the reduction of operating
costs by the improvement of locomoti.ve and car utilization; on control over
the staff employed by better organization and by preparation of a long-term
manpower plan; on adjustment of freight rates and fares in keeping with the
rise in costs and on the reduction and rationalization of passenger and other
unremunerative services to reduce operating losses. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the implementation of the Plan of Action.
viii.      The financial situation of N de M has been deteriorating, and the
operating ratio increased from 148 in 1972 to 173 in 1974 against the Second
Railway Project target of 127. In 1974, freight revenues failed to cover even
the long-run variable costs. The loan agreement for the Second Railway Project
called for an increase of freight rates by early 1974, but this was delayed
until January 1975. The main reasons for the delay were: (a) that the Govern-
ment wanted to apply common tariffs across the entire railway system with a
revised rate structure which would cover at least the variable cost of railway
operations and (b) that the Government was concerned about the slowdown of
economic growth in Mexico. However, the tariff increases in January 1975 were
substantial and not only covered the variable cost but also contributed toward
fixed costs. As a result, the financial situation improved in 1975, and the
operating ratio was 136 as against the target of 130.
ix.       The passenger services are operating at low fares and occupancy
ratios. In 1974, the passenger revenues were only 5% of total revenues but
22% of the variable cost. This poor situation has long been noticed. In
February 1975, although there was some increase in passenger fares, this was
totally inadequate to solve the critical financial situation of passenger
services. The second project called for N de M to submit to the Government
a program for curtailment of passenger services and fare increases, or com-
pensation for losses on uneconomic services which would otherwise have been
avoided. Out of some 54 intercity passenger train services, N de M discontinued
14 in 1974 and received approval from the Government to discontinue or modify



- iii -
10 more services in 1976. Considering the difficulty around the world of
eliminating uneconomic passenger trains and the recent favorable position of
railways in relation to other modes resulting from the energy crisis, the action
taken so far by N de M is satisfactory. N de M will also review each year
the financial condition of the remaining passenger trains with the objective
of reducing, progressively, their financial deficits. The Government will
grant specific compensation to N de M for uneconomic passenger trains which
will continue to operate for social reasons.
x.        The financial projection for 1975-1979, based on forecast traffic
increases, the tariff increases of 1975 and the Investment Plan, indicates
that there will be a gradual improvement in the financial situation. The
operating ratios will improve from 136 in 1975 to 110 in 1979. N de M
should be able to obtain sufficient revenues to cover, by 1983, all operating
costs and interest on debts and, by 1986, all operating costs and debt service
charges. It is, nevertheless, crucial to the attainment of financial viabil-
ity that N de M and the Government take all necessary action, including
increases in tariffs, to cover rises in costs, particularly staff costs, due
to inflation.
xi.       The total estimated cost of the project, including contingencies,
is US$576 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$253
million.  The proposed loan of US$100 million will finance about 40% of the
foreign exchange cost. Included in the foreign exchange cost of the project
and in the loan will be the purchase of rails and some track machinery, the
VHF/UHF telecommunications equipment, consultants' fees, and the components
for local construction of about 5,300 freight cars; these components will be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The cars will be built by Constructora Nacional (CN), the state-
owned railway car construction company, in line with optimum utilization of
its existing capacity. All goods financed under the proposed loan would be
acquired on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement. Local bidders would be granted
a margin of preference by adding 15% (or the applicable customs duties, which-
ever is lower) to the CIF value of the foreign bids. For the important pur-
chases outside Bank financing, N de M proposes to arrange bilateral financing
for items such as locomotives and mail/passenger cars.
xii.      The economic rate of return would be at least 17%.  The main
economic benefits would be derived from greater traffic carried at reduced
cost, the decrease of railway operating costs and the avoidance of costly
diversion to road of freight traffic. Because not all benefits could be
easily quantified, this is a conservative estimate, and a higher return can
be expected.
xiii.     The project would provide a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100
million for a term of 25 years, including a four-year grace period.






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico and the Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
(N de M) have asked the Bank for assistance in financing N de M's investments
during 1976 and 1977, estimated at Mex$ 7,201 million (US$576 million equivalent).
1.02      The technical, economic and financial analyses of this report deal
with N de M's Plan of Action for its operational and financial rehabilitation
and with the 1976-1977 portion of its Five-Year 1975-1979 Investment Plan,
which forms the basis of the proposed project. The project for 1976-1977
includes the expenditure of Mex$ 7,201 million (US$576 million), of which the
proposed loan would contribute US$100 million. The consultants, TOPS On-Line,
USA, have been studying the problems of N de M since 1972. The implementation
of their recommendations has already produced several improvements in the
railways' working and has prepared the way for detailed action plans, described
in this report.
1.03      This would be the third railway loan to Mexico.  The first loan
(103-ME) of US$61 million for the rehabilitation and modernization of the
Ferrocarril del Pacifico was made in 1954, and the works were completed
successfully in the late fifties. The second loan (825-ME) of US$75 million
for the modernization of N de M was made in 1972 and is progressing satis-
factorily within the estimated costs, except for the telecommunications pro-
gram and rails - the former on account of a redefinition of the telecommuni-
cations package and the latter due to a rise in the price of steel rails
following the oil price increases. The telecommunications portion of the
project was redefined since N de M decided, in consultation with and on the
advice of TOPS On-Line, in favor of a modern telecommunications system com-
prising VHF and UHF radio instead of a mere reconditioning of the old open
wire system (para. 4.09). The preparation of the specifications and tender
documents for the telecommunications package, and the bidding, procurement
and installation of the new equipment have caused the closing date of the
second railway loan to be extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1977.
1.04      The second railway loan has helped N de HI to renovate its track,
to acquire new rolling stock and to make a start toward a modern telecom-
munications network. The proposed third railway loan is intended to pursue
this trend, with improvements in track, operations, and telecommunications
systems and with the procurement of more rolling stock to increase N de M's
capacity and to improve its financial viability.
1.05      This report is based on (a) N de M's Investment Plan for 1975-1979;
and (b) the findings of the appraisal mission of April-May 1975, consisting
of Messrs. J. Kesson (Consultant), A. Soto (Economist), N. Rasheed (Financial
Analyst) and Mahendra Lal (Railway Engineer); it has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.



-2-
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The demand for intercity transportation in Mexico is derived not
only from growth in production and consumption but also from the spatial dis-
tribution of economic activity.  Among the more relevant facts for transporta-
tion is the dominance of the Mexicc City Metropolitan Area as a traffic
generator. Out of an estimated 1975 national population of 60 million,
almost 10 million reside in the Mexico City Area. The only other cities with
a population in excess of one million are Monterrey and Guadalajara, with
approximately 1.7 million each. With 17% of the national population and 42%
of the national manufacturing employment, the spatial distribution of pro-
duction and consumption is highly skewed toward the capital city, and the
transport network has been constructed to serve the existing pattern of flows.
Policies have been designed to discourage further concentration in the national
capital and to overcome the momentun built into the present spatial order.
Low cost rail transportation will, among other factors, be important to the
achievement of the long term objective of more even dispersal of economic
activity throughout the country.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.02      The Mexican transport system followed the classical pattern of
development. The railway era of 188I0-1910, during which the bulk of the
system was constructed, was financed largely by foreign investors interested
in exploiting the mineral and agricultural resources of the country, and the
current rail system continues to cater to the movement of bulk agricultural
and mineral products as well as a substantial amount of industrial products.
The route length of the railway network has changed very little since 1910,
but investments have been made in the upgrading of track, motive power and
rolling stock. Rapid growth of the road system from 1930 on has duplicated
major routes and extended the transport network to areas not served by rail.
Because Mexico's modern development has been basically inward-looking, port
requirements for foreign trade have been relatively modest; nevertheless,:
significant port improvements have been made. Exploitation of the nation's
petroleum resources has generated a large coastal traffic in petroleum and
its products, and a much larger development of pipeline transportation. A
growing middle class and expanding foreign tourist trade have fed the growth
of air transportation. Mexico now has 20,000 km of railways; 122,000 km of
paved and graveled roads; 37 public ports, of which 11 have some commercial
significance; 84 commercial airports, of which 43 can handle medium or larger
jet aircraft; and over 12,000 km of gas, oil and petroleum product pipelines.
C.   Transport Coordination, Policy and Planning
2.03      Federal (primary) highways are planned, built and maintained by the
Secretariat of Public Works (SOP), except that toll roads are operated and
maintained by an independent agency. SOP also has a controlling influence on
state and local roads through its participation in their financing and planning.



The Secretariat of Communications and Transportation (SCT) has an advisory role
in highway planning, and it is responsible for the regulation of common carrier
highway transportation. To date, these regulations have not prevented the
development of a highly competitive trucking industry.
2.04      The two largest railways (Nacionales and del Pacifico) are auto-
nomous Government Agencies (para. 3.02) and have played an important role in
the transportation system of the country; the other three railways are
operated by a Directorate of SCT under general managers appointed by the
Secretary of Communications and Transportation. There has been considerable
railway unification (there were 11 companies in 1964), and progress continues
to be made in this direction. Major railway construction projects are de-
signed and built by SOP in collaboration with the railways and SCT.
2.05      Three separate departments within the Secretariat of the Navy (Marina)
are respectively responsible for planning and building port works; construc-
tion and maintenance dredging; and operation and maintenance of the ports,
except for cargo handling, which is managed by recently established "empresas,"
owned jointly by port workers and the Government, or by independent unions.
2.06      Airports are operated by Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA),
an autonomous Government agency. Airport construction and major maintenance
are performed by SOP. Airport planning appears to be dominated by SOP,
although other agencies, including SCT, participate. The two trunk airlines
are roughly of equal size: one is a Government enterprise and the other a
private operation.
2.07      Like other major oil companies throughout the world, PEtEX, the
state petroleum company, is a major transportation agency in its own right,
with a tanker fleet, pipeline, tank trucks, and railway cars.
2.08      Regulation of transportation tariffs is formally under the juris-
diction of the Department of Tariffs of SCT, but tariff decisions are usually
politically determined at higher Government levels.
D.   Outstanding Problems
2.09      While the present transport system is a major acihievement, it is
not without problems. Uneconomic railway passenger services have been heavily
subsidized, while urgent requirements for additional freight cars have, until
recent years, gone unsatisfied. Selective railway capacity expansion should
be accompanied by improved operations, rational and timely pricing of services,
and abandonment of uneconomic services. Further trunk highway construction
will be needed, especially in the south and east, but Lhe future emphasis must
be placed upon maintaining and strengthening the existing trunk system and
supplementing it with secondary and tertiary roads. A rational road user
charge policy is needed: at present, for example, there is no user tax on
diesel fuel, the fuel most used by intercity truckers and bus operators.
There is overcapacity in most of the smaller ports, and, in some of them, no
reasonable level of ship or shipper chargec can cover current depreciation
expenses. Expansion or modernization of a Lew major ports will be required



- 4 -
to handle an expected increase of foreign trade, but, in general, stress needs
to be placed on avoidance of uneconomic investments and on substantial improve-
ments in operating and financial performance. Airport investment and pricing
policy should question the present degree of cross-subsidization and whether
extensions of it are warranted by social benefits. Finally, the problem of
national coordination of transport investments and policies must be mentioned,
since a rational approach to the problems of the transport sector is at least
partially dependent on a larger view of national transport needs.
E.   The Search for Solutions
2.10      The problems outlined above are well known from previous Bank
appraisals. The rail passenger deficit is a serious drain on public resources.
A major objective of Bank lending for railroads in Mexico is to bring this
deficit under control. The issue of road pricing has recently been addressed
in an ambitious study of road user charges, financed under the Second Railway
Project and about to be completed by the SCT. Preliminary findings indicate
that, although the road user charges, as a whole, largely cover construction
and maintenance of the urban and inter-city road network, diesel-driven trucks
are receiving a substantial subsidy. Discussions of the findings and recommen-
dations of the recent study will take place in the near future. A major objec-
tive of Bank lending for ports is to curb the excesses in new port developments
and to improve the operations and financial performance of existing ports. The
possibility of embarking on major new investments in any mode without careful
consideration is always a danger, especially when the primary transport network
configuration is nearing maturity, as Mexico's is. Consequently, the Bank has
insisted that it be advised of any major construction projects in modes receiving
Bank support.
2.11      The problem of national transport policy is complicated by the
existence of various, poorly coordinated government organizations (paras. 2.03-
2.08). Nevertheless, some progress has been made recently. Within the ports
sector, the National Ports Coordination Commission has been established to
harmonize the port activities of the Government and the other entities involved
in port operations and to produce a national port development plan. An avia-
tion subgroup with similar objectives has been added to the inter-agency Trans-
port Coordinating Committee within the Secretariat of the Presidency. The
Transport Coordinating Committee itself is a recently established group in
which all Government agencies normally interested in transportation are repre-
sented at the Ministerial, Director General, and working levels. Its coordi-
nating function is advisory and largely concerned with reviewing and seeking
inter-agency consensus on specific short-run transportation problems, includ-
ing budget plans of the transportation enterprises and agencies. The Planning
Directorate of SCT has been strengthened and given responsibility for a long-
range national transportation plan. Since all these efforts, most of which
were initiated with Bank support, are relatively recent, their effectiveness
is just beginning to be felt in the field of transport planning and coordina-
tion.



- 5 -
3. THE RAILWAY SYSTEEi
A.   Introduction
3.01      N de M is the largest of the five separate state-owned railways;
their extent is indicated below and shown on Map IERD 3655R.
Route - Km
Standard       Narrow        Total         Z
Gauge          Gauge
(1.435 m)      (0.914 m)
Autonomous Operation
Nacionales de Mexico               13,583          440         14,023       71
Del Pacifico                        2,284           -            2,284      11
SCT Lines
Chihuahua al Pacifico               1,515           -            1,515       8
Sonora-Baja California                539           -              539       3
Unidos del Sureste                    950          420           1,370       7
Total                        18,871          860          19,731      100
3.02      N de M and del Pacifico are autonomous Government agencies.  Both
are managed by the same General Manager and have Boards of Directors repre-
senting the various Secretariats, the Chambers of Commerce and the Union of
Railway Workers. The other railways are operated as a Directorate of the
Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT) and are controlled by
General Managers appointed by the Secretary of Communications and Transport,
who also acts as Chairman of the Board of all Government railways. Through
the SCT, the Government controls safety and engineering standards and tariffs
of all railways.
3.03      The Sectoral Planning Directorate of SCT, in its capacity as coordi-
nator, examines the long-term investment plans of N de M, but approval of the
investment budgets is given by the Presidencia and the Hacienda. The Railway
Directorate in the SOP has separate annual budgets for major construction works,
such as new railway lines, realignments and regrades, which, on completion, are
handed over to N de M for operation. There is good coordination between N de M,
SCT and SOP on the broad planning, and on technical standards used; there is
also agreement that any item likely to involve considerable interference witih
N de M's daily traffic operations shall be carried out by N de i1 and included
in the N de M budget. Each project is examined by SOP with regard to techni-
cal, financial and economic considerations, and a minimum rate of return of
12% is required. However, during negotiations, it was agreed that the Govern-
ment shall, during the period covered by N de M's Investment Plan, and before



- 6 -
undertaking any investment in new projects for the railways estimated to cost
more than US$10 million equivalent in any one year, afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to review and comment upon the feasibility studies for such
investment. This is necessary since new projects without adequate economic
justification can adversely affect the financial viability of N de M. A re-
view of SOP works in progress and proposed for the coming years is given in
Annex 1.
B.   National Railways of Mexico (N de M)
(i) Management, Organization, Staff and Training
3.04      The present organization diagram is given in Annex 2.  The manage-
ment of N de M is competent.  Under the General Manager, the Deputy General
Manager is in effective charge of the operating departments, with other de-
partments such as staff administration, finance and planning reporting direct-
ly to the General Manager. One of the weaknesses of the system, however, has
been the division of the railway into 17 districts with the various depart-
ments in each district supervised by the different heads of departments under
the Deputy General Manager. This ratlher strong vertical and departmental
division of responsibility and managernent often led to lack of coordination
at the district level and is now being remedied on the advice, and with the
aid, of the consultants TOPS On-Line. The earlier 17 districts have been
regrouped into four regions, each under a regional manager, to ensure better
control and coordination and improved liaison with headquarters.
3.05      Staff data are given in Annex 3.  Staff has increased to keep pace
with the increase in traffic, and the total number of full time regular
employees rose from 59,000 in 1970 to 63,263 in 1975 (against 59,000 through
to 1976, as agreed to in the Plan of Action for Loan 825-ME). However, the
increase in traffic during this period has been phenomenal and, at 50.1 mil-
lion tons in 1974, far exceeded the expectations of the second loan appraisal
mission of 47.3 million tons for 1976. In terms of ton-km, it was expected
that N de M would carry 21.26 billion ton-km in 1974, whereas the actual
traffic in 1974 was 25.45 billion ton-km and is expected to reach 29.63 bil-
lion ton-km in 1976. The productivity per man in terms of traffic units has
actually improved from 375,000 units in 1970 to 459,242 units in 1975, a
figure which compares favorably with the productivity of more advanced rail-
way systems. However, N de M should be cautious in making further increases
in staff to ensure that the effect of the operational improvements foreseen
in the proposed project, on the one hand, and the increase in traffic, on the
other, are carefully weighed before any projections are made for the staff
required for the future.
3.06      N de M has a large training establishment (Instituto de Capacitacion),
which provides training programs at the main railway centers and by means of
miobile schools and correspondence courses for (a) maintenance and track struc-
tures; (b) operation of stations, yards, trains and locomotives; (c) mainte-
nance of diesel locomotives and rolling stock; and (d) general administration,
including middle and top management training. Although the training establish-
ment is well organized and the training courses are managed competently, the
U -oes not have a modern recruitrment and training scheme, and there is



- 7 -
need for modernizing both the recruitment and training practices in order to
keep in step with the new systems and equipment being introduced on the
railway.
3.07      As part of the Plan of Action (para. 4.01), N de M agreed to prepare
and submit to the Bank for comments, not later than June 30, 1977, a manpower
plan which will include, inter alia: (a) the departmental distribution of
manpower year by year up to 1980 in accordance with the improvements in the
operations of N de M as set forth in N de M's Investment Plan and Plan of
Action; (b) a scheme for the solution of the problem arising from over-aged
personnel and for the long-range financial burden of pensions; and (c) a
scheme for the improvement of recruitment and training standards for the
staff of N de M.
(ii) Railway Property
3.08      N de M operates approximately 14,CO  route-km of railway:  main
traffic routes total about 7,600 km (Map IBRD 11843), and, on these, N de M
is proceeding with a program of renewal, using heavy rail, concrete sleepers,
welded rail joints and new stone ballast, to give a good standard of track
to take the increasing traffic and heavy axle load locomotives and freight
cars now in use. Secondary lines are being renovated using released rail,
while arrears of timber sleepers and stone ballast replacements are being
made good on these and other lines.  The main routes between the Mexican sea-
ports and the central highlands were built in the 19th century with steep
gradients and sharp curves which now present operating and maintenance problems
under progressively increasing gross tonnage of traffic.  Proposals for regrad-
ing and realigning such sections are being investigated jointly by N de M and
SOP. Track maintenance, especially on the renovated tracks, needs to be
improved, and this will be done by a program for the provision of mechanical
aids and the regrouping of the labor forces. Further data regarding N de M
track and property are given in Annex 4, and information regarding the relay-
ing programs in Annex 5.
3.09      A short section of line, about 100 km, on one of the steep hill
sections is electrified; otherwise, the system is wholly diesel operated.
There are nine electric locomotives, 1,014 diesel locomotives and 40 diesel
railcars; 261 locomotives, a large number of which are of small horsepower,
are to be withdrawn for scrapping on an age/condition basis during the period
1975-1979, and 299 locomotives are to be purchased during this period, which,
for reasons of standardization, will be confined to the GE/GM brands. The
freight car fleet of 26,262 units is relatively modern and of good design.
About 2,000 units are 40 or more years old and are to be withdrawn for scrap-
ping at the rate of some 400 cars per year. About 5,500 freight cars are
presently on order for delivery in 1975-1976. To cater for the increase in
traffic forecast, new cars are proposed for ordering at the rate of approxi-
mately 2,500 per year from 1976 througlh 1979. Of the passenger cars, total-
lin- 1,390, on the standard gauge tracks, about 640 are 30 years old or more
and are unsatisfactory for service and maintenance. N de M is replacing 176 of
these during 1975-1976.  The maintenance of locomotives and of a large propor-
tion of the car fleet has been reorganized and improved (with the assistance
of TOPS On-Line) during the past three to four years, and the percentage of



- 8 -
rolling stock out of commission shows a promising trend. This work must be
continued, and particular attention will need to be paid to the introduction
(a start has already been made) of a scheme for maintenance of cars on a
program basis. Details of the locomotive and rolling stock fleet are given
in Table 1.
(iii) Operations
3.10      The most important operating statistics are given in Table 2.
Freight traffic increased from 38._3 million tons in 1970 to 44.1 million tons
in 1973 and to 50.1 million tons in 1974. Freight train loads increased,
with the introduction of higher horsepower diesel locomotives, from 931 net
tons in 1970 to 1,168 net tons in 1974. There was also an increase in average
car loads from 39.3 tons in 1970 to 47.6 tons in 1974. However, freight car
turnaround time deteriorated from 13.9 days in 1970 to 19.2 days in 1973.
Although there was some improvement in turnaround time in 1974, an analysis
of wagon time indicates that detentions in terminals and intermediate yards
have increased considerably. Some measures have already been taken to tighten
up control of wagons in yards, and the introduction of the PICL System (Perma-
nent Inventory Control of Car Location) at Valle de Mexico is a step in the
right direction. This system is to be extended to other yards. The start of
unit and through trains, introduced after careful planning, has also increased
wagon utilization since iron ore, limestone, petroleum products and other
minerals are now being carried in unit trains working to timetables.
3.11      Locomotive and car availability has improved on account of better
maintenance, and locomotive utilizalion has also improved; the average loco-
motive-km per diesel locomotive increased from 89,800 per year in 1970 to
97,600 in 1974. It is expected that, with the increase in the number of unit
and through trains and with the improvement in telecommunications facilities,
there will be further improvements in locomotive and car utilization. These
projected improvements were taken into account in determining the requirements
of additional rolling stock for meeting the demands of increased traffic in
future years.
(iv) Signal and Telecommunications
3.12      The existing telecommunications system is quite antiquated and,
except for the comparatively small sections worked by Centralized Traffic
Control (CTC), trains are operated on the train-order system, and the rail-
way has no signals. This has necessitated the proposed installation of
VHF and UHF radio systems, together with the required exchanges and tele-
printing equipment (para. 4.09).
4.  TEE PLANI AN:) TlHE PROJECT
A.   The Investment Plan
4.01      Based on the forecast of traffic, on the anticipated operational
improvements as set out in the Plan of Action (Annex 6), and on a program of



rehabilitating and improving parts of its track, rolling stock and associated
assets, N de ItI has prepared an Investment Plan for 1975-1979 which is set out
in Table 3. This plan continues and supplements the plan originally prepared
for 1972-1976, of which the Bank financed the 1972-1973 portion under the
Second Railway Project. Total investment in the 1975-1979 Plan is estimated
at Mex$ 17.5 billion (US$1,401 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of Mex$ 7.0 billion (US$560 million). It was agreed during negotiations
that N de M will implement the Plan of Action and will carry out all itermls of
the Investment Plan and will make no additions or new investments over
US$20 million without consultation with the Bank.
4.02      Cost estimates for the Investment Plan are based on prices at the
beginning of 1975. Local material, labor and contract data for similar work
carried out on N de M have been used where appropriate. Recent quotations
for imported material and equipment to Mexico and elsewhere have been reviewed
and utilized. Physical contingencies have been taken at 5% only when the
quantities/works are not clearly defined. Price contingencies on local items
have been taken at 17% for 1975, 15% for 1976, 12% for 1977 and 10% for the
years 1978-1980. On foreign material and equipments, contingencies have been
provided at 12% for 1975, 10% for 1976, 8% for years 1977-1979 and 7% for 1980.
Overall, the price contingency element allows for cost increases during 1975-
1979 averaging 30%.
4.03      A detailed evaluation of the progress in the implementation of the
previous Plan of Action for the Second Loan (825-ME) is given in Annex 7.
Operating performance of the railway improved, and the freight rate increases
of 1975 helped to better its financial position. Passenger fare increases were
inadequate, and, clearly, much remains to be done in this area. However, the
Second Railway Loan achieved its objective of improving the railway's working
by renovating its track, adding rolling stock anid motive power, and, above all,
by focusing attention on the problems of freight rate increases and unremuner-
ative passenger services.
B.   The Project
4.04      The project combines the Plan of Action with the 1976-1977 portion
of N de M's 1975-1979 Investment Plan. The cost estimates are detailed in
Table 4 and are summarized below:



Project                Proposed Loan
Local  Foreign  Total        Amount  % of Loan
-------------- (in US$ Million) -------------
Track and structures               52.9    39.6    92.5          30.0      30%
Signalling and telecommunica-
tions                            16.5    25.5    42.0         15.0       15%
Construction works                 42.2     0.2    42.4            -        -
Locomotive and rolling stock    132.1   154.9   287.0           30.0       30%
Consulting services                 2.2     0.8      3.0          0.6     0.6%
Sub-total                   245.9   221.0   466.9          75.6    75.6%
Contingencies
- physical                    7.8      4.5    12.3          3.3      3.3%
- price                      69.6    27.3    96.9          21.1    21.1%
Total                       323.3   252.8   576.1         100.0    100%
4.05      The objectives of the project, together with the Plan of Action, are:
(a) to enable N de M to cope with the increasing traffic it is required to
carry by the improvement of its operating efficiency, the rehabilitation of
its track, the modernization of its telecommunications system and the acquisi-
tion of urgently needed rolling stock and machinery; and (b) to achieve finan-
cial viability by a gradual reduction of its operating deficits.
4.06      A brief description of the main items of the project is given below,
and a Project Implementation Schedule is included in Annex 8.
(i) Track and Structures
4.07      N de M has in hand a program of (a) complete track renewal on prin-
cipal traffic lines, (b) partial replacements using recovered rail on secondary
lines, and (c) making good arrears in replacing timber sleepers and stone
ballast on other lines. The track renewal program for 1975-1979, as proposed
by N de M, after amendment in agreement with the mission, is set out in
Annex 5 and illustrated on Map IBRD 11844. During 1976-1977, N de M proposes
to renew about 660 km of track with rnew rail, to renovate 400 km with second-
hand recovered rail and to continue its program of replacing wornout sleepers
and of reballasting wherever required. Also planned is the provision of
various items of track machinery and equipment to accelerate maintenance and
track renewal works in order to improve the standards of maintenance, to
maximize sectional capacity and to make the track suitable for the increased
traffic requirements. The proposed equipment is listed in Annex 9.
4.08      Several bridges on the railway system are not strong enough for the
load imposed by the new locomotives and freight cars, and the Investment Plan
provides for the strengthening and renovation of such bridges to remove
capacity constraints. Sidings at stations, terminals and intermediate yards
are also being enlarged or remodeled to enable longer and heavier trains to
operate.



- 11 -
(ii) Signalling, Telecommunications and Electrical Supplies
4.09      During the Second Railway Project, N de M decided, on the advice
of the consultants TOPS On-Line and in agreement with the Bank, to provide
a new VHF/UHF radio communications system instead of renovating the existing
open wire system; a detailed plan was consequently drawn up for a VHF/UHF
radio system, which, in conjunction with SCT's microwave network, would provide
a modern telecommunications network for the system. Bids were received by
N de M in April 1975, and contracts were awarded for the VTF equipment to
Motorola (USA) and for the UHF equipment to Nippon Electric (Japan).  An agree-
ment was also made with the labor union to ensure that the new system would be
introduced without any difficulties. Part of the work was included in the
Second Railway Project. It is intended that the foreign exchange cost of the
remaining items be financed from the proposed third loan. Details of the pro-
posed telecommunications system are given in Annex 10. The proposed system
would provide a basis for much needed improvements in operation and for the
modern, computer-based car control system included in the project. In addi-
tion, CTC facilities would be extended to cover more high density sections,
and the existing communications equipment in workshops, stores, terminals and
yards would be replaced by modern equipment more in line with the overall
improvements in the communications network.
(iii) Construction Works
4.10      Provision is made for earthworks, drainage and other services
required for station, terminal and marshalling yard extensions, for building
works in connection with additions to workshops, station buildings, goods
depots, and offices, and for housing facilities for N de M staff (mainly
for the regrouping of track maintenance staff with mechanization staff).
Allowance is also made for hospital and staff welfare facilities, which
N de M is required to provide under Government and labor contract require-
ments.
(iv) Locomotives and Rolling Stock
4.11      The project includes the purchase of about 124 new diesel locomotives
(Table 5), ranging from 2,000 to 3,600 HP, and about 5,800 freight cars. These
new freight cars are intended not only to meet the demands of increased traffic
but also to cover the scrapping of old and obsolete units and to reduce the
utilization of foreign cars to a reasonable level (Table 6). In addition,
N de M is obtaining 30 mail vans and 176 passenger coaches under contracts
recently placed in Switzerland and Canada, mainly to replace over-aged units.
It is also proposed to purchase breakdown cranes required to deal with derail-
ments and accidents to the heavier locomotives and cars now in service.
4.12      For the workshops and service depots, additional machinery and
equipment are to be procured to improve efficiency (list in Annex 11).



- 12 -
(v) Consulting Services
4.13      N de M plans to utilize local consultants to assist in the design
and preparation of documents for its bridge strengthening, general works
construction and operational improvement programs. Provision is also made
for consultants to continue technical assistance as part of the project in
the areas of telecommunications and car/train control systems (Annex 12).
C.   The Proposed Loan
4.14      A loan of US$100 million is proposed to finance about 40% of the
foreign exchange cost of the project. The items proposed for financing
wfould include:
(a) Rails - 76,000 tons of 115 lb/yd (para. 4.07);
(b) Track maintenance equipment (para. 4.07);
(c) VHF/UHF communications system, second part (para. 4.09);
(d) Imported components for 5,300 cars for local manufacture
(para. 4.17);
(e)  machinery and equipment for workshops (para. 4.12); and
(f) Consulting services (para. 4.13).
The above items have been selected mainly because they are suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding and because N de M does not have other sources of
finances for them.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
4.15      N de M, assisted by consultants, will carry out the project.  All
goods financed by the proposed loan would be procured through international
competitive bidding, under which suitable goods produced within Mexico would
enjoy, as usual, a margin of preference of 15% on CIF prices or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower.
4.16      For the VhF/UHF and associated communications equipment (para 4.09),
part of the foreign exchange cost (approximately US$10 million) will be met
from the Second Railway Loan (825.-ME), with the balance to be met from the
proposed loan. Funds from Loan 825-ME will be adequate to meet payments through
1976, and, thereafter, the provision made in the proposed loan would finance
the balance.
4.17      The freight cars, for which components will be imported under the
proposed loan, will be manufactured by Constructora Nacional (CN), a state-owned
enterprise which operates efficiently on a conmmlercial basis and produces good
quality cars. Under the Second Railway Project, this enterprise secured the
contracts not only fcr the cars reserved for manufacture within the country
but also for the cars tendered through international bidding. CN's factories
have the capability to produce 3,000 to 3,500 cars per year; therefore, the
Mexican Government and N de M have requested, in keeping with the Government's
policy of utilizing the optimum installed capacity, that 5,300 cars be purchased



- 13 -
from Constructora. For these cars, the prices of which are subject to adequate
Government control, the imported components will be financed by the Bank. The
components, which are estimated to cost 18% of the price of the cars to be
manufactured by Constructora, will mainly comprise some steel sections, door
fittings, brake equipment, roller bearings, and axles, and will be purchased
by international competitive bidding (ICB).
4.18      At the same time, Mexico is a member of the Latin America Free
Trade Association (ALALC) and has negotiated preferences for the importation
of lists of products originating in member countries of ALALC. Should offers
be submitted in international tenders from suppliers in ALALC countries,
they would be awarded a preference of 15% or the difference in tariffs applied
to goods from within the ALALC countries and other external suppliers, which-
ever is lower.
4.19      For imported goods, disbursements would be made on the basis of
CIF costs and, with respect to bids won by local suppliers under ICB disburse-
ments, would be made on the basis of 100% of the exfactory costs. The Bank
would also finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost of consulting services.
Any savings in the loan amount resulting from prices lower than estimated
might be utilized to finance similar items in the ongoing program subject to
the agreement of the Bank. Annex 13 shows the estimated quarterly disburse-
ments.
E.   Ecology
4.20      The project does not envisage the construction of any new lines
or the acquisition by the railway of any equipment or machinery that would
contribute signficantly to the pollution of the environment.
5. ECONOMIIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The sustained growth of the Mexican economy in the period from 1940
to 1970 was supported by the existence of a railway system which provided
adequate capacity, at very low cost, to the increasing traffic volumes. N de M,
by far the largest railway carrier, has played a crucial role in facilitat-
ing the export and import of goods to the country and in connecting the various
internal production and consumption centers. The prospects for continued
growth in the economy of Mexico depend partly on the success of the Govern-
ment's efforts to strengthen the agricultural and industrial sectors, to
promote exports and to encourage spatial decentralization in the country.
In achieving these objectives, the transport sector, particularly the railways,
has an important role to play. Accordingly, the Government has placed in-
creasing emphasis on strengthening and modernizing the railway system, espe-
cially N de M.
5.02      Revenue from freighlt tonnage on all railways increased at the rate
of 5% per annum from the latter half of the 1960's to 1974. There has been



- 14 -
a higher rate of increase of freight ton-km; for N de M, traffic grew from
11 billion ton-km in 1961 to about 25 billion ton-km in 1974, or at about
6.5% per annum, reflecting an increase of the average haul from about 440 km
in the early 1960's to more than 500 km in 1974. As a result, N de M, for
the first time, faced capacity problems to meet existing demand. Passenger
traffic on N de M fluctuated from 34 million passengers and 3.1 billion
pass-km in 1966 to a high of 35 and 3.5, respectively, in 1969, and to a low
of 25 and 3.1, respectively, in 1974. This entails an average decrease in
the number of passengers of 3.8% per annum in the 1966-1974 period; pass-km
have not decreased, on average, reflecting an increase in average distance
traveled from 91 km in 1966 to 124 km by 1974. Very generally, there are
major movements of food, domestic and imported raw materials, and consumer
goods into the densely populated central region (the temperate south central
portion of the interior plateau centering on Mexico City), and outward movements
of manufactured products to all parts of the country and for export. In terms
of ton-km, about 30% of the traffic comprises mineral products (mainly iron
ore), another 30% industrial products, about 20% agricultural products (mainly
corn, wheat and sorghum), and the remaining 20%, inorganic, petroleum and
miscellaneous products (Table 7). The heaviest trafficked corridors include
the Mexico-San Luis Potosi-Monterrey-Nuevo Laredo lines (US border), the
Mexico-Guadalajara Manzonillo lines (Pacific Ocean port), and the Mexico-
Veracruz line (Atlantic Ocean port:).
B.   Traffic Forecasts
(i) Freight
5.03      Freight traffic is expec:ted to grow between 1975 and 1980 at a faster
pace than hitherto as a result of major expansions under way in the steel,
cement and oil sectors. A number of steel plants are doubling their existing
capacity, and a new one (Las Truchas) is being built, including the construction
of a new railway line to connect it with N de M's network.  Sizable expansions
are also contemplated in the cement industry. The share of oil products moved
by N de M is low, and it is expected to remain low in spite of large increases
foreseen in oil production because new pipelines are expected to absorb such
increases. However, a number of industrial products tied to the development
of the oil sector, such as fertilizers and petrochemicals, will increase their
production as well; a major portion of these commodities are being transported
by N de M and are expected to continue moving by rail.
5.04      N de M prepared a detailed study for 41 commodities, showing the
changes in traffic volumes since 1964 and those foreseen between 1974 and
1980. Freight traffic is expected to increase by about 7.8% per annum in
ton-km during the 1974-1980 period and by about 5% per annum (close to the
historical long-term growth trend) thereafter. The expected traffic growth
in the initial six-year period fluctuates from a low of 0.8% per annum for
the group of commodities comprising petroleum products to a high of 12.7%
for mineral products, which is acceptable. Iron ore and steel related traf-
fic will account for 64% of the increase in ton-km. These forecasts are, to
a large extent, insensitive to tariff variations since minerals, steel-related
products, fertilizers and bulk cereals--which will account for about 65% of



- 15 -
the 1980 traffic--constitute a captive traffic which can be carried at tariffs
above long-run marginal cost. For other commodities, which are mostly of bulk
type, projections have been made conservatively, assuming generally low traf-
fic increases.
(ii) Passengers
5.05      Forecast passenger traffic is conservatively estimated to increase
moderately from 1974 to 1980. It is expected that, with a badly needed
increase in fares (para. 6.09) and further canceling of several passenger
trains, the decreasing trend in passengers in N de M will be compensated only
by improved quality of service. It is also expected that the decreasing vol-
ume of intercity traffic will be partially compensated by a moderate increase
in suburban traffic in the Mexico City area.
C.   Cost-Benefit Analysis
(i) Methodology
5.06      The economic evaluation prepared by N de M focuses on the 1975-1979
Investment Plan globally and on particular components of the Plan, whenever
possible. For evaluation purposes, the Plan has been divided into six cate-
gories depending on the type of investment and its economic effects (Annex 14).
These categories were evaluated separately, and, from the results, an overall
evaluation of the Plan was derived. Details of the methodology and the
criteria adopted for the economic evaluation are given in Annex 14. Sensi-
tivity analysis and first year benefits are in the same annex. Since the two-
year Project is an integral part of the Five-Year Investment Plan and since
most of the benefits will accrue only if the related investments in the Plan
are carried out, the Project itself has not been evaluated separately. It
was agreed during negotiations that N de M will carry out all items of the
Investment Plan (para. 4.01).
(ii) Track Renewal
5.07      The Plan contemplates the purchase and installation of new rail
of 115 lb/yd on some 1,600 km of main line with a total cost estimated at
Mex$ 1,600 million in 1975 prices. Second-hand rail, set free because of the
installation of new rail but which has not reached the end of its useful life,
will, in turn, replace wornout rail; an additional 1,000 km of line will thus
be improved. In both cases, the improvements include the replacement of rails,
ties and switches, after ballasting and reshaping of the embankments. An
improved track will avoid delays due to speed restrictions presently existing
on most of the lines being improved because of the poor state of the track;
without this investment, further reductions in travel speed are expected.
Sizable savings in future maintenance and renewal costs are also expected
from the proposed investments. The quantification of these benefits is ex-
plained in Annex 14. A separate economic analysis was carried out for each
of the nine lines being improved. Based on these benefits, the above invest-
ment yields a rate of return of 14% for the entire program, with individual
rates of return fluctuating from 12% to 23%, which is acceptable.



- 16 -
(iii) Track Rehabilitation
5.08      In spite of recent efforts in conjunction with the Second Railway
Project, N de M's network still faces a backlog of deferred maintenance.
Ballasting and replacement of ties and switches are included in this component
of the project, as well as the purchase of track maintenance equipment, with
a total investment of Mex$ 885 million. The quantified benefits include impor-
tant savings in future renewal costs and in track maintenance expenditures. The
proposed investment yields a rate of return of 21%, which is satisfactory.
(iv) Realignments and Bridges
5.09      Although practically all civil works associated with the construc-
tion of railway lines in Mexico are normally the responsibility of SOP (para.
3.03), N de M, in exceptional cases, carries out such works on its own.
This is the case for the realignment of several minor sections of a number
of main lines and the construction of a number of bridges, culverts and
retaining walls included in the Plan. The realignments reduce transport
costs by reducing the present steep grades in the corresponding sections.
The new structures will increase the capacity of the corresponding main lines
to carry the heavier cars and locomotives purchased in recent years. The
economic returns vary from 12% to 26% for the realignments and amount to 13%
for the structures.
(v) Locomotives and Rolling Stock
5.10      One of the main components of the 1975-1979 Investment Plan is the
program for acquisition of rolling stock and motive power, indispensable
in order to meet the forecast traffic demand by 1979. Unless the proposed
investment is carried out, 4.2 billion ton-km would have to be transported
by truck at higher cost (details are given in Annex 14). The savings in
transport costs yield a rate of return of 16% on the proposed investment.
(vi) Shop Equipment
5.11      The Plan also contemplates the purchase of Mex$ 150 million worth of
shop equipment and the investment of Mex$ 500 million to continue the ongoing
program of rationalization, modernization and expansion of shop installations.
N de M estimates that the proposed improvements should conservatively avoid
a reduction in the availability of motive power and rolling stock of not less
than 3% and 2%, respectively, as a result of fewer delays in the shops and
smaller frequency of non-programmed repairs due to better equipment mainte-
nance. On such a basis, this component of the Plan would have an economic
return of 22%.
(vii) Telecommunications and Signalling
5.12      The consultants TOPS On-Line have prepared an economic evaluation
for the entire telecommunications package financed under the Second Railway
Project (Loan 825-ME) and the proposed Third Railway Project (para. 4.09).
The economic return on the total investment for the VHF and UHF communications
network and for a car control system to be installed under the Third Railway



- 17 -
Project is estimated at not less than 25%. The CTC system included in the
Five-Year Plan for control of operations on three high density lines is
expected to yield a rate of return of 35%. Details on the computation of
benefits for these investments are given in Annex 14.
(viii) Other Miscellaneous Investments
5.13      About 11% of the investments in the Five-Year Plan have not been
incorporated into the above groups. They include the construction or improve-
ment of parking lots, stations, warehouses, social facilities for staff,
hospitals and health centers, and housing for laborers, in accordance with
labor agreements. They have not been included in the economic analysis.
D.   Overall Economic Evaluation
5.14      Based on the benefits for the six groups mentioned above, which
account for 89% of the proposed Plan, the Plan would yield an economic return
of 17%, which is satisfactory.  A sensitivity analysis indicates that, in the
event of an increase in costs of 15%, the total Plan, as well as its compo-
nents, would still be economically justified (Annex 14).
6. FINANCES
A.   Financial Position
6.01      From the time of N de M's creation in the late 1960's until late
1974, its financial position had been deteriorating. Operating deficits
increased from Mex$ 1,030 million in 1970 to Mex$ 2,218 million in 1974, a net
increase of 115% in current pesos. Freight rates were not increased between
1959 and 1974; passenger fares were increased once in 1970, by 30% for first
class and 20% for second class.  However, the increase in salaries and material
prices has more than offset the financial benefits of increased fares. The
income statement and the balance sheet for the years 1972 to 1974 are shown
in Tables 8 and 9. The working costs have increased by Mex$ 1,542 million
but the revenues increased only by Mex$ 556 million as a result of traffic
increases during the 1972-1974 period.
6.02      Failure to increase tariffs deteriorated the operating ratio from
148 in 1972 to 173 in 1974 against the target of 127. The following results
are observed from a traffic costing- study of 1974 N de M operations conducted
by the Bank.



- 18 -
-------------------- -    1974       -     _-_________
Long-Run             Revenues         Gross Margin
Variable                               or (Loss)
Costs                                        -
--------------------(Mex$ Million)-----------------
Freight                2,665      71%    2,635     89%        (30)    (4%)
Passenger                822      22%      151       5%      (671)   (84%)
Express                  240       6%      110       4%      (130)   (16%)
Mail and Other            34       1%       70       2%        36       4%
3,761    100%    2,966    100%        (795)   (100%)
Total fixed costs                                                 1,907
Total deficit for 1974                                           2,702
The above table indicates that, while the passenger revenues were 5% of total
revenues, the variable costs were 222 of total variable cost. Further,
although passenger train operations are much smaller than freight operations,
the deficits created by passenger trains are the largest--about 84% of the
difference between total revenues and total long-run variable costs. The
chronic deficit situation of the passenger services has long been noticed,
but, in 1974, even freight revenues failed to cover long-run variable costs.
6.03      The financial projection -in the appraisal report for the Second
Railway Project (825-ME) assumed that freight tariffs were going to be
increased in early 1974. Such increase, however, was delayed until January
1975. The reasons for delay were: (a) that the Government wanted to apply
a common tariff across the entire railway system in the country in accordance
with Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement (825-ME) and to revise the
freight rate structure with adequate classification of the commodities and
conduct cost studies in order to increase rates sufficient to cover at least
the long-run variable cost, as suggested by the Bank; and (b) that the
Government was concerned about the slowdown of economic growth in Mexico
and, for this reason, could not implement a railway tariff increase in 1974
as it did in other public utility areas such as water, electricity, and gas.
It maintained that tariffs could not be increased for all these essential
inputs at the same time. Therefore, tariffs were increased only in January
1975 (para 6.04) and were applied uniformly across the whole railway system.
As a result, the financial situation is showing considerable improvement, and
the expected operating ratio of 136 for 1975 is fairly close to the target
of 130 projected for the Second Railway Project.
B.   Tariffs and Costs
(i) Freight
6.04      N de M increased the freight and express rates by an overall weighted
average of 44% and 40%, respectively, effective January 1, 1975. There are 20
rate classes for carload freight, varying from 34.25 centavos (2.7 US cents)
per ton-km at class 1 to 9.9 centavos (0.8 US cents) per ton-km at class 20,
for an average haul of 500 km.  Individual commodities have been carefully



- 1 9 -
allocated to the various rate classes according to the long-run variable cost
af tranisportation, demand, and competition with other modes. Although the
carload freight rate increase was 44% on the average, the increase for indivi-
dual commodities varied widely. The new rates will also absorD a part of
fixed costs in addition to fully covering variable costs.
6.05      Less than carload (LCL) traffic was about 0.2Z of total ton-km
in 1974.  LCL operating costs are muclh higher than carload freight because
of the uneconomic use of freight cars and the high terminal documentation and
handling costs. In 1974, its revenues were only about 17% of variable costs
in spite of high rates, varying from 125% to 300% of the highest class rate
(class 1) of carload freight. Included in the Plan of Action is the provision
that N de M should carry out, no later than December 31, 1976, a study on
the economic impact of LCL traffic, and should progressively eliminate the
losses on such traffic.
(ii) Passenger
6.06      Passenger fares were increased, effective February 1, 1975, by an
overall weighted average of about 22%.  This increase was insufficient to
solve the critical financial situation of passenger services. Even after fare
increases, the costing study (para 6.02) indicated that the 1975 estimated
revenues would only be about 31% of immediately avoidable cost and about 19%
of long-run variable cost. If further increases are not made or uneconomic
services are not reduced, rising costs will further deteriorate the financial
situation in the coming years.
6.07      It was agreed in the Second Railway Project that a program would
be presented by N de M to the Government for the curtailment or abandonment
of, and for fare increases for passenger services or for compensation of
losses on, uneconomic services. Out of some 54 intercity passenger train
services, 1N de M has already discontinued 14 services and has received approval
from the Government to discontinue or modify an additional 10 services during
1976. This leaves about 30 services, or 55% of the total services existing
in mid-1974, to be continued in operation. These services are difficult to
discontinue because of social reasons. In view of the worldwide difficulty
of eliminating uneconomical passenger train services and the improved position
of the railways in relation to other modes resulting from the energy crisis,
the action taken so far by N de M is considered satisfactory. N de M agreed,
during negotiations, to review further each year the operational and financial
condition of the remaining passenger trains in order to rationalize services
and/or increase fares with the objective of reducing, progressively, their
financial losses. The Government has also agreed to pay N de M a specific
subsidy to compensate for the losses of those passenger trains which are not
curtailed.
C.   Future Prospects
6.08     Based on the 1975 tariff increases, the traffic forecasts discussed
in Chapter 5, and the proposed Investment Plan, a forecast of operating



- 20 -
revenues and expenses was prepared for the years 1975-1979. It is shown in
Table 8, and a summary is presented as follows:
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
------------(Mex$ Million)--------
Operating revenues (excl. Government
compensation for unprofitable services)  4,707   5,180   5,957   6,506   6,844
Working (or cash) expenses                    6,081   6,383   6,790   7,097   7,160
Working (or cash) revenue (loss)             (1,374) (1,203)   (833)   (591)   (316)
Depreciation                                    300     340      360     385      400
Net operating loss                            1,674   1,543   1,193      976      716
Working ratio                                   129     124      114      109     105
Operating ratio                                 136     130      120      115     110
The forecast is based on assumptions detailed in Annex 15.  An average of 10%
increase in freight rates was projected in real terms in 1977. The ratios
shown above are exclusive of Government subsidies and were adopted as targets,
rather than those inclusive thereof,, because they provide the ultimate test of
Government and N de M performance in transferring the cost of railway service
to the users. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the financial
targets indicated in the Plan of Action.
6.09      Since the above figures are based on the average tariffs, wages and
material prices prevailing in October 1975, it is assumed that N de M and the
Government will take necessary action, including increases in tariffs, to
offset future inflationary rises in costs. Since 1973, Mexico, which had for
many years enjoyed substantial price stability, entered into a period of in-
flation. The GDP deflator index rose by 12% in 1973 and 23% in 1974. Al-
though inflation slowed down somewhat in 1975, it is expected that wage adjust-
ments are going to be granted periodlically and that the cost of fuel and
materials used by the railways will continue to rise. Experience in the past
shows that, for most Latin American Railways, tariff increases always lag
behind increases of wages and other inputs, thus making impossible the achieve-
ment of financial targets. To prevent this, it was agreed during negotiations
that N de M should periodically make! timely requests to the Government to
authorize all necessary actions to be taken, including increases in rates,
fares and other charges, to offset cost increases and achieve the financial
targets. Agreement was also reached that N de M would review with the
Government each year the progress made in attaining financial targets
during that year and would formulate! the action required for the following
year.
6.10      If action is taken by N de M and the Government on the above-
mentioned points, the working and operating ratios will show a gradual improve-
ment in the financial situation, thus decreasing them from 129 and 136 in 1975
to 105 and 110 in 1979. Table 8 demonstrates that the total revenues will rise
from MexS 4,707 million in 1975 to Nex$ 7,109 in 1979, a net increase of 51%, while
the operating costs will rise from Mex$ 6,381 million to Mex$ 7,560 million, a net
increase of only 18%. The average freight revenue per net ton-km in 1979 will
be 15.0 centavos (US$0.012) as compared with 10.0 centavos (US$0.008) in 1974,
an increase of 50%. With such financial improvements, N de M should be able



- 21 -
to meet, with its own operating revenues, all operating costs and interest
on debts by 1983 and all operating costs and debt services by 1986; this was
agreed as part of the Plan of Action.
6.11      Under Loan Agreement 825-ME, N de M agreed to conduct cost studies
of 34 low density traffic branch lines and to propose action on them accord-
ingly. In view of this, N de M has already abandoned seven lines, curtailed
services on another seven lines and is in the process of making a decision
regarding six more lines. N de M will complete the studies of the remaining
uneconomic lines in 1976 and 1977 (Annex 7). N de M agreed, as part of the
Plan of Action, to perform periodically a cost analysis of low density branch
lines and to recommend to the Government that it either permit abandonment
of uneconomic lines or pay compensation to eliminate the deficit.
D.  Financing Plan
6.12      A cash flow and financing plan is given in Table 10 and summarized
below. Details of the assumptions used in preparing this financing plan are
given in Annex 16. Since the project items extend into 1978, the financing
plan was prepared to include the total period of the Five-Year Investment
Plan, 1975-1979.
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979       Total      Z
____________-    (1975 MexS Million)    - - ------
Requirements of Funds
N de M operating deficits
(excluding depreciation)  1,674  1,143    843    656    451    4,767    18
Estimated debt repayments
Local                         886    829    852  1,137  1,113    4,817    18
Foreign                       748    980    947    968    846    4,489    16
Capital investment          2,492  2,669  3,103  2,411  1,782   12,457    46
Other                          181    120    110    100    100        611      2
5,981  5,741  5,855  5,272  4,292   27,141   100
Sources of Funds
N de M depreciation            300    340    360    385    400    1,785        7
Government Contribution    3,189  2,732  2,392  2,386  2,210   12,909    48
Loans
Local                       840  1,063  1,823  1,792  1,359    6,877    25
Foreign                   1,652  1,606  1,280    709    323    5,570    20
5,981  5,741  5,855  5,272  4,292   27,141   100
6.13      The financing plan depends to a large extent (48%) on appropriation
from the Government budget. The remaining sources of funds will be the World
Bank, foreign banks (Exim Bank, Swiss Bank and Export Development Bank Canada),
local banks and internally generated funds through depreciation reserves.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will provide funds or



- 2i2 -
arrange financing as needed by N de M to meet the expenditures required for
the carrying out of the railway operations and to execute the Investment
Plan satisfactorily and in a timely manner.
6.14      The summary balance sheets of N de M are shown in Table 9.  Debts
have been increasing from Mex$ 2,331 million in 1972 to Mex$ 4,773 in 1974 and are
expected to reach a high_of Mex$ 7v,781 millior' by 1978, then to start declining
to Mex$ 7,524 million by 1979. Since the railway revenues were insufficient to
recover even the costs of operations, the Government has been paying debt
service charges. However, in accordance with the proposed Plan of Action,
the total Government financial burden would gradually decline from Mex$ 3,189
million in 1975 to Mex$ 2,210 million in 1979. The cash and bank balance in
1974, although larger than in 1972, was still about one-half of the average
monthly cash requirement, but from 1976 it will show improvement. The railway
inventories and receivables will grow simultaneously with traffic, operating
expenses, and revenues. In 1979, debts will be about 26% of total capitali-
zation.
6.15      N de M is not expected to achieve financial viability before 1986,
but it will have established a path to financial recovery, provided future
borrowings are carefully controlled and limited. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached that, unless the Bank agrees, N de M will not incur any short
or medium-term loans (under five years) after 1976 if the total of such loans
outstanding at any time, including t'he debts to be incurred, exceeds 10% of
total capitalization. 1/
E.   Accounts, Budget and Audit
(i) Accounts
6.16      N de M uses the same accounting methods as the US railways.  In 1974,
with the help of consultants TOPS On-Line, it designed a good traffic costing
system. However, the balance sheets still need improvement because fixed
assets show historical values which depart considerably from current values.
In view of the recent high rate of inflation, current values of these assets
and the related depreciation charges would be higher than they appear in N de M
books. N de M has already started preparatory work toward the revaluation of
fixed assets and expects to complete such exercise by December 1976. The
results of this revaluation will be used internally for costing and for rate-
and fare-setting purposes. Furthermore, N de M intends to officially incor-
porate the new values of assets as soon as the special accounting rules which
are now being studied by the Government in that respect would allow them to
do so.
(ii) Budgets
6.17     N.K-de M submits its annual budget to Hacienda on September. 1 of each
year. Based on the approved annual budget, N de M receives subsidies from the
Government periodically throughout the year; these subsidies have been regular
and adequate in recent years.
1/   Total capitalization means the total debt plus Government capital con-
tribution, subsidies and grants less accumulated deficit.



- 23 -
(iii) Audit
6.18      As required under Loan 825-ME, N de M accounts are audited by the
Patrimonio Nacional, but, for the last few years, Patrimonio has appointed
private auditors to perform an independent audit.  These au.-tors have been
submitting their reports to the Bank satisfactorily through N de M. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that N de M will continue such annual
audit satisfactory to the Bank.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points:
(a)  No-additional SOP works for new projects on the railways
for items totaling more than US$10 million (annually) to
be undertaken during the period covered by N de M's Invest-
ment plan without the Bank having had the opportunity to
review and comment upon the feasibility studies involved
(para. 3.03);
(b)  Implementation of N de M's Plan of Action (paras. 4.01, 6.08,
6.10, 6.11 and Annex 6);
(c)  N de M to carry out all items of the Investment Plan and to make
no additions or new investments over US$20 million without consul-
tation with the Bank (paras. 4.01 and 5.06);
(d)  N de M to review, each year, the operational and financial
condition of the passenger train services and, on the basis
of such review, take action to reduce, progressively, the
losses from the operation of these services and the Govern-
ment to pay specific compensation for the uneconomic passenger
services not discontinued (para. 6.07);
(e)  N de M to periodically make timely requests to the Government to
authorize all necessary actions to be taken, including increases
in rates, fares and other charges,to offset cost increases and
achieve financial targets (para. 6.09);
(f)  N de M to review with the Government each year the progress
made in attaining financial targets during the year and to
agree on the action required for the following year (para. 6.09);
(g)  The Government to provide funds or arrange financing as needed by
N de M to meet the required expenditures for the Investment Plan
and the operation of the railways (para. 6.13);
(h)  Debt limitation covenant (para. 6.15);
(i)  Audit of N de M accounts (para. 6.18).
7.02           The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100
million for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of four years.
March 15, 1976






MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Oi-,aat BR"!  Stock )ta
UP TO      5                10                15                20                25                30                 35                40                Over 40                 TOTAL
DIESEL LOCOMOTIVE
600-1200 HP (SG)                                   -                 -                16                43                20                 3                  8                 -                                           90
1310-1350     "                                     -                 -                44                32                 -                13                  -                                                             89
1500-16000"                                         60                -                 2                 5                70                 2                  -                 -                     -                    139
1750-1800                                           45                1               180                48                ;4                 -                                                                               288
2400-2750                                           -                71                60                 -                 -                 -                  -                 -                    -                     131
3000-3600                                          217               41                 -                 -                 -                 -                  -                 _                    _                     258
322              113               302               128               104                18                 8                                                             995
807 HP (narro.   gauge)                              3                7                 9                                                                                                                      --  -           19
TOTAL                                              325              120               311               128               104                18                  8                                       _                  1,014
FECIGHT CARS (SC)
BOT CARS                                         5,106            1,642             4,607             4,009                93             1,194               289                 58                   22                  17,020
GONDOLAS                                         2,299            1,474               437               135               325                89                89                 85                  125                   5,058
CATTlE CARS                                         -                17               193                94                 -                 5                  -                94                  124                     527
FLAT lARs                                          114               48               126               175                 2                 4                  2                 -                  138                     609
HOPPER CARS                                         55              297               123               441                 -                 -                  -                                     38                     954
TANDK CARS  2/                                     250                -                 -                 _                                   3                  _                 2                1,262                   1,517
'AB0QOOIL                                          120               39               103               150                 -                 -                 -                  -                  165                     571
7,944           3.517              5,589             5,004               4Z0--           1,295               3YD                239                1,874                 26.262
PASSENGER CARS (SG)
DIESEL RAILCARS                                     -                40                 -                 -                 -                 -                  -                 -                     -                     40
EXPRESS AND MAIL                                    23 -             74               116                51                 7               115                20                 37                   28                     471
SECOND CLASS                                        -                67                88                13 3              67                32                  1                27                   79                     374
FIRST/SECOND CLASS                                  -                 -                 7 -               -                 2-                2                  -                 -                   16                      27
FIRST CLASS                                                          15                 2-                -                47                 1                  -                57                     5                    127
SLEEPING                                            -                 -                 -                 9                86                62                 10                 -                   25                     192
OTHEPS                                               5 -              3                 61-               2                20                40                 16                22                   44                     158
28             199                219                75               229               252                47                143                  197                  1,389
NOTES:  1/  Standard Gauge.
2/  Tank cars re mrotly for N de M' OWn service traffic; public bulk
oils are carried in PEMEX owned cars.
3/  Mostly second hand units; construction date unknown
*   Years of age - Rolling stock is classified agewle.
SOURCE: N de M
DATE: May 1975



TABIZ 2
15138  8421818  ~PW9021
106    1970               1971               1972               1973                 1974
ko,t-  c oprtd - ed-rd gang.                                                                  13,248         13.492             13,276             13,344            13,42 6              13,538
- aroma gerge                                              3~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     ~        ~~~03  418  675  678  664  640
- Tote113,753                                                                         13,910             13,951             14,022            14,090               14,023
TrafCIc                                                                                             78              33229.3                              29.1               23.8                 20.0
Peesenser - ntinra  (million)                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3         33,2 56                              3,286279315
Pan.sage-  km         (mlin                                                                       ,121          3435                                                     2,73                 311
Freight    - too - rovecos carrying (million)                            7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2.9  36.3          39.4              41.8               44.4                 5.
-Fsrvie h5                                                                                 .51.5                            1.5                1.5                1.4                  1.6
- local   (   '   7                                         7~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  ~      ~~~~4.4  39.8  60.9  43.3  63.0  1.
Freight cel too - km - freight trn,fl5   (milliOn)             14,922          17,711             18,436            21,193             22,662               25,33921,13  22,66  25,33
-  ire   rig"                                                             656            688                711                696                843                  765
- other Irrios  (  5                                    ~~~      ~     ~~~        ~       ~~~       ~       ~~~       ~       ~ ~~166  20  198  178  236  209
- tnl                                                                  1,4             18,605             19,345            22,067             23712,1
of ahith  -  artoon re-ying (     )14,845                                                   10,099             19, 147           21,899             23,505               25,756
- aervite  (   '  )                                  381            584~~~~~~~~                                     ~       ~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~ 18178  236  557
preoge ",oill     (.)92                                                                                1036               111                11I3               117                  15
Averge frihp       el.evm   teyn    (kn)41                                                                        43                 452                464                482                  492
Train km.       ..psseg-r (000~)                                                               16,290         16 033             13,852             15,916             14,161               13,926
-m. .  ined (.                                                                            3,93(3         3. 894             3 936             4,001              3,907                3,806
freight      n717,875                                                                            19,023             19.040            20.1151            20,4(10              21 693
-service    (0)                                                 ~~~~           ~~~        ~       ~~~        ~       ~~~        ~      ~~~         ~        ~~~~~~127  144  121  134  153  133
told  (   7                                                 ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~38,225  39,094  38,949  40,202  38,639  59,560
Reica tk (00                                                                               292            993              1.011              1, 028            1,036                   510
LoR.entv km (     penogo                                                                      16,564         19,869             22,161             22,540             19, 844              19. 681
--t-      riP..ed9                                                                     4,080          4,214              4,323              4,634              4,696                4,525
- foigh                                                                      25,266         31,599             36.902             39,459             40. 799              46.621
-1 srvic                                                                        307             306               224                166                160                  166
-yard                                                                         6,187          6,0                4,730              4,111              7,233                6,36
- corel                                                   ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~           ~~~~52,406  62,372  68,542  70,926  72,748  778360
tmvvhce  m-pnone   arin1mlic                                                   108.            111.              105.               13893.0                                  87.2
- hegoege                                 8.2            6.3                3.2                3.2               3.4                  3.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  2  .
- ri110                                                                         14.7                007.9                               12.2                  1.
19.5           182                18.8               19.8              28.                   21.
- total                                     141.7          131.0~            ~~~~~~             ~~~~~~            ~ ~~~~       ~       ~ ~~~~ 1385.8  134.5  130.6  128.0
Averegentonbet of  ehuiiec per trelo - peen-  tan                                     7.4             7.5                7.2               7.                  .2                  7.3
.-b-   f -hi0- P-       -  ovd crlepees...    rat                               1.)             3 3               3.2                3.2                3.2                  3.1
- freight                             7.1             7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19  7.          7.1                7.8                  7.9
- tria                                               1.1.           11.2               12.                10.3               11.0                 11.0
Average comber of pCeCOOgOtt per crelo-peseenger items                   1~~     ~     ~~~        ~       ~~71  104  17        7017                                   245
-eiredtreioa                                          88             71                 68                 70667
Averge  -b-t  of pa-eoger  Per Pacogef -ehirlr                                                  29.4            30.7              30.8               31.7               29.8                 33.0
Avornin  ..c-toni  loo 1-   fteighc traice (tnos)                                                312             9371               968             1,031              1,113                1,160
-mixe       0     (    7                                               67             177                10                174                216                  201
Arorefo grese trair lord - freight teams (tons)                       ~~~~~~         ~~~~~1, 92  1, 906  1.863              2,00               2,050                2,110
i- m d     r     70712                                                             527                532               513                570                  496
-rn   o-k.   freight servi-o  (million)                                                   29,103          36,222            35,467             40,468             41 690               46,806
- minad  7   r   7                                         ~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,415  2,051  2,093  2,054              2,229                1,884
-role1       I. I       r                                                     31.118         38,273             30,540             42,522             43,919               49,221
-igrihi  oa-Inn   loaded (Illon)                                                               4.3.0         473.8              446.2              499.7              520.6                340 .9
I py                                                                     232.2         289.8              760.               306.1              319.1                326.7
-total                                                                        649.2         763.6              734280.837976
p- protage loaded tn cotni                                                     '2.1           63 .1                                62.1               62.0                164.0
Oervir...blnror-deys (000)                                                                     11 721        14,110             14.339             14,984             18.295               19030
Averge ce  load, 1oeded cer  only (tc)2.                                                                       39.3               45.4               49.                46.                  47.8
N-ohe   f --r Iboded (00927                                                                                   1, 013               869                913                852                1,089
Ernigh t oar corvaroond oeaedys:26                                                                       13.                16.                158                19.2                   .
Avrfoee    f  -r  per freight lenlo- loaded                                             :,2. 1        24.0o              22.                23.                294.5                25.
- oply                                            :3.5           14.6               14.               14.86              13.2                 14.9
- cetel                                :3~~    ~    ~~~~       ~       ~~~~       ~       ~~~.6  38.4  37.0  38337.7               40.3
Noonher o  ltomcvele             -i   tc                                                          435           Nil                 -                 -
H-b- f 1- i..    St-o of soini                                                               08-k-
-vtait                                                                 .337           0 
-die -.ir I        etoc                                                                759           813                856                901                995                1,014
..00  of   -ri-e                                                          16            81                133                134                159                  150
-in traffi                                                               703           754                721                767               836                   866
-lc i-Ioat-k                                                                      9             9                  9                  9                  9                    9
- ovt of service                                        ~      ~      ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~4  4  4  4  5  3
- to craffir                                         3             ~         ~        ~        ~        ~         ~        ~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  5  5  4  4
Dlineo.l locomoives-otof  erce7.1                                                                                73               16.0               1.                  601.
- obe  v   rffic-asegrtris135                                                        132                137               140                150                  152
-oleed                                    3~     ~      ~~~~~~~~                                       ~        ~~        ~         ~ ~~~2 52  54  55  48  53
f- ivght                                              396           419                400                455                513                  539
y-yads acd  -i-lo                                     120           132                121                117                123                  168
- Ttal                                                703           734                721                767                836                  910
Thotor of frtiihbcre N. do 8, Iv s-ec                                                          10,807        21,4014            21,681             22, 241            23.272               25,411
icoffi- N dn1. cr                                                 14,427        180,62             10,634             19,6833            20,239               21,752
-oher  -eiecril rey rae967                                              1,32)8,099                           9,092              9.2D4                9,017
-  orio                                                            4,2914            12,301             12,165             19,680               31,450
, Perigo rail nay rea            7                                       ,8
To.tal                                                 32,113         38.877            39,83              40,940             49,123               32,218
Oib-r of crrtof  -erico                -de M1rr                                                 1,180          2,032              1,6071            1,3306             1,280                1,093
- eher cen49                                                             243'               330                399                6041                 349
-T.teI                                                   1,3 28         2,205              2,001             1, 733             1761                 1,442
Cotal vomber of rare ov live                                          ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~33,142  40,972  41:,835  42,675  50,884            53,661
N  n9raevother litre                                                                            1,200          1,370              1,00              1,20               1,681 05  '          2,02
Pr-cgboner.    7of N do 9 rar  oot of  ervi-e                                                      07            9.6                7.760355.
rear  prpesce  tank                                                                             171.3          191.0              182.7             183,0              173.3                203.
freight onc co-Inn per freigh  trai _km                                                         741:.2         883.1              077.6             956.7            1,913.0              1,160.0
Locomotve - In par  Iesllcmtv   t  ofi-raen                                              12,0          130,700            138,506           161,000            139,693              14,061
-  ine                                  75, 90        6140               83,2759            06,345             97,833               7180
f-fright                               61, 00         75,6000            90,224            06,723              79,221              83,10
-avrge                                 78,300         89,0               94,754             90,990            91,39                 97,691
Lor-mtio-  inn per Omenl looo iveiveck                                                         71,,00         83,100             79,810            77,4203            7'3,.105             76,291
TrloIn  e  trei.                .. herseg-r4                                                                    41.                41.4              40.9               38.8                 40.1
-freight                                                             2V.            22.                21.0               21.4               19.9                 29.4
- rila-                                                             6:9.0         66.                83.3               61.2               52.9                 42.2
esPr-ger cra-  -rlivo~ on tOme                                                                  891.4          67.02              65.7              58.3               45.1                 49.6
7.tl R cers arivv   cv      - oe504                                                                             63.3               54.3               33.5               24.3                 495.2
r-ighti co  i  pe-  -eri-ble  a  day                                                            1,0            0,318              1,330              1,473             1,298l                1,3~83
-o              ,  .                                                                     56,0          3 4.1              50.55364.4'
im.ev7gr- km, per o1t. n  -i     tan-oded                                                                                        30.8)-.
eapty                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38.6  37.0                                                 38 9
Joly 1975



P00RD RAILWAY fKOJECT
Inneanoant rpin, (1975-1979) to PrOReRt (1976-1977)
(c6e HiAllion)
P L A N                 P R 0 J E C T
---  1975 ---                 --- -9--7--------197 --------1 979                                                                                                   1-1977  ----    -----   1978---------  ----- 1979---------  ----- 1975-1979-------    ------ 1976-1977
tOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREnIN   TOrAL    LOCAL   FRSEIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREI2N   70TAL    LOCAL   rDRslCN   TO7AL    LOCAL   F0YEICN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIIN    TOTAL
1. TRACK ANID STROCTUOES
1.  T-REk Renewal - New Rail                      127.1    171.9    299.0    141.4    161.9    303.3    117.9    119.4    237.3    123.7    125.0    248.7    135.4    144.6    280.0    645.5    722.8    1,368.3   239.3   281.3             540.6
2. Trod Renewal - 2nd hand rail and Renr-I
of laapaa 4 hllcat defern-d  o-ot.            52.0    105.4    157.4      74.4     41.1    115.5      97.9     75.0    172.9      68.9     75.0    143.9      66.7     75.0    141.7    359.9    371.5        731.4   t72.3   116.1       288.4
3.  aoal4g-went                                     2.2      -        2.2      17.0       -       17.0     37.0       -      37.0      26.6       -      26.6        -         -        -     82.8         -        82.8    34.0      -         54.0
4.  Ytrd  and SLta-loa - elre                       5.9      -          .9     19.8        -      19.8     19.4       -      19.4        -         --                                   -      45.1        -         45.1    39.2     -         39.2
S.  Brldgaa - *tre-nthen                           26.8      -       26.8      44.0       -      44.0      41.0       -     41.0       44.5       -      44.5      44.4       -       44.4   200A7         -       200.7    85.0      -         85.0
6. WRt-r and Foal EqoEpoent                         0.7      -        0.7       1.5       -        1.5      2.9       -       2.9       3.0       -        3.0      2.6        -       2.6    10.7         -         10.7     4.4     -          4.4
7. Welghtng Platfr                                       -             -         -                  -       1.4       -       1.4       0.9       -       0.9       0.1        -       0.5     2.8         -         2.8      1.4     -          1.4
8.  Tr-ck Mahi.nny and Eqoilpoen                    8.0     13.1     23.1      10.0     23.1      33.1      4.7      72.7    77.4       4.6     41.7      46.3      4.0      23,9     27.9    31.3      176.5       207.8    14.7    95.8      110.5
9. FIeld Eqolp- nt                                  0.2      -        0.2       0.5       -        0.5      0.6       -       0.6       0.7       -       0.7       0.8        -       0.8     2.8         -          2.8     1.1     -          1.1
10.  Dncheigal Den  nd Soporr-aton                   7.7      -         7.7      9.0               980       9.3       -       9.3       9.6       -        9.6      9.9        -       9.9    45.5        '-        45.5    18.3      -         18.3
11.  8oacnllanoona                                   8.4      0.7      9.1       5.4      1.1       6.5      5.9      1.2      7.1       5.1      1.0       6.1      3.6      0.8       4.4    28.4        4.8       33.2    11.3      2.3       13.6
Sob-Ton-l                                     239.0    293.1    532.1    323.0    227.2    550.2    338.0    268.3  60643         287.6    242.7    530.3    267.9    244.3    512.2 1,455.5   1,275.6        2,731.1  661.0   495.5   i.1S6.5
CRAttn.g.cte Phy.i..l 57. I/                                                                          16.9     11.4    30.3       14.4     12.1     26.5      13.4     12.2      25.6    44.7       37.7        82.4   16.9    13.4        30.3
Sab.Totl .mth phyala1 oRtiRnganni..   2/    239.0    293.1    532.1    323.0    227.2    550.2    354.9    281.7   636.6         302.0    254.8    556.8    281.3    256.5    537.8 1,500.2   1,313.3        2,813.5  677.9   508.9   1.186.8
Contingen-lca PrEtn                                                                                   151.2     38.9   230.1      17588     96.8    272.6    208.2    128.3    336.5   535.2        304.0       839.2  151.2   78.9        230.1
Total                                         239.0    293.1    532.1    323.0    227.2    55D.2    506.1    360.6   866.7        477.8    351.6    829.4    489.5    384.8    874.3 2,035.4   1,617.3        3,652.7  829.1   587.8   1,416.9
II. CONSTRUCTION WOORR
1.  Yrd.,            E-.eo t. t Rarthwor-k         12.7      -       12.7      38.7      3.0     41.7      65.5       -     69.5       68.8              68.8      69.3        -      69.3   255.0        3.0       258.0  104.2      3.0     107.2
2. bLen Eloe - .hopa co othera                     33.1      -       33.1      52.4       _       5z.4    147.6       -    147.6      111.4       -      111.4     85.2        -      85.2   429.7         _        429.7  200.0      _        200.0
3.  Station bildleo./affln..                       21.0              2 71.0    10.4       -       10.4     44.4             4 44       50.4       -      50.4      56.3        -      56.3   182.5                   182.5   54.8     _         54.8
4. Staff ho-aOe8                                   11.0      -       11.0       5.4       -        5.4     75.0       -      75.0     150.0       -      150.0    225.0        -     225.0   466.4         -         466.4   80.4     -         80.4
5.  Hoapitl and weifara Wtldidnga                 11.9      -        11.9     16.3       -       16.3     28.9       -      28.9      35.6       -       35.6     37.5        _      37.5   130.2         -         130.2   45.2     -         45.2
6. MIla-aian*oue                                    2.8               2.8       6.0       -        6.0      2.2       -      2.2        2.6       -        2.6      3.1        -       3.1    16.7         -          16.7    8.2     _          8.2
7. EnSgnn-r-lg and aeperolalon                    11.7       -       11.7      13.0       -       13.0     21.0       _     21.0       31.0       -      31.0      41.0       -       41.0   117.7         -        317.7   34.0      -         34.0
Sob-Total                                     104.2      -      104.2    142.2       3.0    145.2    384.6        -    368.6      449.8       -     449.8    517.4        -      517.4 1,398.2        3.0     1,601.2  526.8      3.0     529.8
CDnninaanalaa Phyaicol S%                                                                              19.2              19.2      22.5       -      22.5      25.8        _      25.8    67.5         -          67.5   19.2     -         19.2
SuhbTotoI wIth Phyailal noncleaowe            104.2             1 184.2    142.2     3.0    145.2    403.8        -    403.8      472.3       -     472.3    543.2        _      543.2 1,665.7        3.0     1,668.7  546.0      3.0     549.0
Conllnonnciea PrIce                                      _                            .               172.0       -    172.0      274.9       _     274.9    401.9        -      401.9   848.8         _        848.8  172.0      -        172.0
Total                                         104.2      -      104.2    142.2       3.0    145.2    575.8        -    5n.8       747.2       -      747.2    945.1        -     94.1 2,51435         3.0     2,517.5  718.0      3.0      721.0
in.  SIGNAL, TELECOM AND ELECTRICITY
1. VIS/IJr  Sy.tao                                 4.4      57.9     62.3      78.0    226.0    304.0       3.9     21.4    25.3         -        -         -                                 86.3      305.3        391.6   81.9   247.4     329.3
2. Signa1. - CTC                                     _                 _ .     10.9       _       10.9     28.0     55.0    83.0       23.0     38.0     61.0       1.1        -       1.1    63.0       93.0        156.0   38.9    55.0       93.9
3. Ellctrloly Supply                                 -        -        _       10.7       -       10.7      6.7       -      6.7        6.9       _       6:9       7.1                7 2.1    31.4       _          31.4   17.4      _        17.4
4.  -perarton.l Control Sy.-.n (In-rodo--oey)        -                 -       11.3     14.0      25.5      3.5      2.5      6.0       3.5       _        3.5      5.8       3.0      0.8    24.3       19.5         43.8   15.0    18.5       31.5
3. 1ot-rnal Telno1n - Oorkahora-ttora.-OoarIt.l 4.9           -       4.9       1.0       _        1.0      1.5       -       1.5       1.3       _        1.5      1.3        -       1.5    10.4         -          10.4    2.5      _         2.5
6.  innrnal Tole-- - Tada                                                        -        -         -       3.0       _       3.0       2.5       -        2.5       .         -        _       5.5        -           5.5    3.0       _        3.0
7.  intoned  TeleRoI  -   alir de Onalno_
daf-raed n.io    ..na.Rw                      -         _        - _       _                          4.               4.0        2.0       -       2.0       2.0        .       2.0     8.0         _          8.0    4.0       -         4.0
8.  Englnearire and aap-rialon (le-al)             6.5       _       6.5       8.0       -        8.0      9.0       _      9.0       10.0       -      10.0      10.0        _      10.0    43.5         -         43.5   17.0       -        17.0
9. Ml.collaeao..                                   5.1        .       5.1      25.6      0.1      25.7      1.3      0.3      1.6       0.8      0.2       1.0      0.1        -       0,1    32.9        0.6         13.5  26.9      0.4       27.3
S.boTotal                                     20.9      57.9     78.8    145.7    240.1    385.8       60.9     79.2   138.5       50.2     38.2     88.4      27.6      3.0      30.6   305.3      418.4        723.7  206.6   319.3     525.9
Contigen-iw  Phy.in.I 57                                           -                 - .                2.8      2.9      5.7       2.5      1.9      4.4       1.3      0.2       1.5     6.6        5.0         11.6    2.8     2.9        5.7
Sobh.oaal wInh phyoo-al Oontonaoariaa         70.9      57.9     78.8    145.7    240.1    385.8       63.7     82.1   145.8       52.7     40.1     92.8      28.9       3.2      32.1   011.9    423.4         735.3  2049.4   322.2     532.6
Cenltasencioa Print                                                          .        -                27.1     23.0    50.1       30.7     15.2      45.9     21.4       1.6     23.0    79.2       39.8        119.0   27.1    23.0       50.1
Tonal                                          20.9     57.9     78.8    145.7    240.1    385.8       90.8    105.1   195.9       83.4     55.3    130.7      50.3       4.8     55.1   391.1      463.2        854.3  236.5   345.2      581.7



HRXICO
THIRD RALWAY PROJECT
Invaseateo Plan (1975-19791 to Project (1976-1977~
(Hao$ Million)
P L AN                     p R    IECTED
-   --- 1973                        19--76--                     1977----                     1978197877-1--97-3---1979-79-19--76--1179-97-7-- -     -- 975199--     --                           - -. -971
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL        LOCAL.  FORIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FORIGN   TOTM             LOCAL   P0831G2   TOTAL    LOCAL   FORIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL                 LOCAL   FORRIOR   TOTAL
IV L-OCC88OTIVOS. ROLLING STOCK. ETC.
1.  Locneti-e                                          19.4      318.9   335,3                  431.2   451.2       -          110.1    150.5        -        456.3   456.3       -          6R.0      6R.0    16.4   1444.9   1491.3            -       601.7    601.7
2.  Freight cae/akubses                              499.1    1051.9  1531.0          439.1    331.2   770.3    1073.4         390.9   1374.3  1043.5         143.6  11R7.1    403.2        129.2    534.4  3460.3   1936.0   1397.1           1512.3   632.1   2144,6
3.  Axles end roll. er ar#inRs                          4.9       12.9    17.R          1.7       3.6      5,3         9.0       28.5      37.5      6.0       19.0    25.0        3.0        9.3      12.5    24.6        73.3      FRi1         10.7    32.1       42.8
4.  14a11 van  (30)                                      -         6.7      Rf7          -       78.1    7R.1           -          -        -         -          -        -         -           -         -        -       R6.R      R6.R          -       76.1      76.1
5.  Pasean8sr Coaches (200)                                         - -                 3.0    249.3   252.3            -      295.6    295.6         -        10.0    10.0         -                     -       3.0    554.9    537.9            3.0   564.9    547.9
6.  Train Li8htin  &quipsoet                            4.0         -       4,0         3.9        -       3.9       10.0          -       10.0      6.0         -       6.0       6.0          ..       6.0    29.9        -        29.8         13.8       -       13.8
7.  Workshop M.ohfosry                                  0.9       19.7    20.3          2.9       4.1      7.0        16.6       31.9      48.7     15.1       27.4    42.5        7.7        6.7      14.4    43.1        99.8     152.9         19.7    36.0       55.7
8.  Work Servioc Vehicles                               6.0         -       6.0        11.0        -      11.0        10.0         -       10.0    12.0          -      12.0      12.0          -       12.0     51.0       -        31.0         21.0       -       21,0
9.  Office and other eqoipset                          10.0         -      10.0        14.0        -      14.0       11.0          -       11.0    12.0          -      12.0      12.0          -      12.0      39.0       -        59.0         25.0       -       25.0
10.  Mienolann.   s41.3                                             3.7    44.9         27,9   ~5.7    33.6            19.3        3.7   - 22.0    14.3          3.9    17.4        3.2        0.7        3.9   105.0       16.7     121.9         46.2      9.4      55.6
Snk total                                        591.2    1395.0  1970.0          503.4   1123.2  1926.6       1149.5      911.1   1959.6  1109.1        659.2  1768.3    449U.         214.1    663.2  3792.3   4203.4   7995.7           1651.9  1934.3   3586.2
COntinganc iee Physical 5%                                                                                       37.4       40.6      90.0    55.5         32.9    88.4       22.5       10.7      23.2   135.4        84.2    218.6          57.4    40.6      98.0
Oub total with physical ...tT9SOlS               592.2    1393.8  1979.0          503.4   1123.2  1626.6       1283.9      851.7   2057.6  1164.6        692.1  1856.7    471.8         224.8    696.4  3927.7   4207.6   0215.3           1709.5  1974.9   3684.2
Contingencies Prioc                                                                                             313.7      239.5    752.2   677.8        263.0   940.8    349.0         112.4    461.4  1340.3    613.9   2154.4            513.7   238.5    752.2
TotL1                                            582.2    1393.8  1970.0          303.4   1123.2  1626.6       1719.6    1090.2   2809.8  1842.4         935.1  2797.5    920.8         337.2   1157.8  5469.2   4901.3  10369.7           2223.0  2213.4   6456.4
V   CONSULTING SERVICES
1.  loca  for Bridge, work con... e-tc.                0.5         -        0.5        12.5       -       12.5       14.8        -         14.8     19.3        -       19.3      21.9          -      21.9    89.0         -        69.0         27.3      -        27.3
2.  Foreign for talacon, opcr.,eorhops art.              -         1.3      1.3          -        9.5      9.1          -         2.0       2.0      -          2.9      3.9        -         3.9        2.9      -        17.2      17.32                 10.1      10.1
Souk Total                                         0.5         1.3     1.8         12.5       8.1    20.6        14.8        2.0      16.9     19.3         2.9    22.2       21.9        2.9      34.8      69.0      17.2      96.2         27.3    10.1      37.4
C-nting.-ene  phoysical. 57.                         -          -        -           -                  -         0.7          -        0.7      0.9         -       0.9       1.0          -        1.0      1.6        -        2.6          8.7       -        0.7
Sub total with physical ceatingeies                0.5         1.3      1.0        12.5       8.1    20.9        15.5        2.0      17.5      26.2        2.9    23.1       32.9        2.9      25.8      71.6      17.2      68.8         29.8    18.1       39.1
C-ncfgRcncias Prioa-.                                                           -   -                             6.6        0.5       7.1      11.7        1.1    12.8       16.9        1.5      18.4    55.2         3.1      58.3          6.6      0.3       7.1
Total                                              0.3         1.3      1.9        12.5       8.1    30.8        22.1        2.5      54.6      31.9        4.0    35.9       39.8        4.4      44.2   106.8        20.3    127.1          54.6    10.6       45.2
VI  SOI8IIY
Trak and st-rucura                                    239.0      293.1   552.1        323.0    227.2   530.2        338.0       268.3    606,3    287.6       242.7   550.5    267.9         244.3    512.2  1455.5   1275.6   2751.1            681.0   495.3   1156.5
Coos Ltruio  works                                    104.2        -      104.2       142.2       3.0   145.2       584.6                 384.6   449.8          -     649.8    017.4          -       517.4  1598.2         3.0   1601.2        526.8       3.0    329.8
Signl Tslete and Electricity                           20.9       57.9    78.8        145.7    240.1   388.8         60,9        79.2    140.1      50.2       38.2    88.4       27.6         3.0      30.6   305.5    418.4        723.7       206.6   319.3    525.9
1.on,tiv-s Ri. Stoo. ato.                             582.2    1393.8  1979.0         503.4   1123.2  1626.6       1148.5       811.1   1959.6   1109.1       659.2  1768.3    449.1         214.1    663.2  3792.3   4283.4   7995.7           1631.9  1954.3   3386.2
Consulting Services                                     0.5        1.3      1.8        12.5       8.1    20.9         14.8        2.0      16.8     19.3         2.9    22.2       21.9        2.9      24.8      69.0      17.2      88.2         27.3    10.1      37.4
Total (without cotingenc.ies)                         946.8    1749.1  2694.9        1126.8   1601.8  2728.4       1946.8    1160.6   3107.4   1916.0         943.0  2959.0   1283.9        464.3   1748.2  7220.3   5917.8  13157.9            3073.6  2762.2   5835.8
Contingencies Physical                                    -  -    -           -                  -         -          97.0       36.9    153.9      95.8       46.9   142.7       64.0        25.1      87.1   254.8    126.9    383.7            97.0    36.9    133.9
Contingencias prina                                     -          -        -           -        -         -        870.6       340.9   1211.3   1170.9       376.1  1547.0    997.4         543.8   1241.2  3039.9    960.8   5999.7            870.6   540.9   1211.5
Grand Total Msx4  (MillLane)                          946.8    1748.1  2694.9        1126.8   1601.6  2728.4       2914.4    1558.4   4472.8   3187.7    1366.0  4548.7   2545.3             731.2   3076.5 10316.0   7002.3  17521.3           4041.2  3160.0   7201.2
Grand Total US$ (Slhllions)                            75.7      139.9   215.6         90.1    128.1   218.2         233.2      124.6    357.8    254.6       109.3   363.9    187.6          38.3    246.1   641.2    368.4   1401.6            323.3   252.7    376.1
1'  physical contingencies have Sean allowed at 5% on lanai and foreign Costa wherts quatities are nor clearly defined or are subject to alteranton as a resul t of field taste.  (Only 1977, 19784 1979)
21  p-rice cotlRnc-tee have keen allowd on local coats at 127t. for 1977 end 107 fcc years 1978-3990.  Go f-oaigc materIal and equipment ccctingaai..i have keen pxiovded 87 . n  yoara 1977-1979 end 7f.to  1980.
Source:  N da M and MIssion astiwetas (revised in accordanca with Nexican G-vrrsemt eanotions for 1976)
February 1976



'31                      -3                     C 0
|.r ao  a F.,rCw.                  .      ..................    .FF.      r                            - F.r r... F.r 
*    n~2a~ ' *
'-            p. ' W z   ,     Or- Ct jO~                                             C         a HCa(
,  G OA s          2 AD N ~' aZ O.ao N                                                     aaaaNE 1gBWNW     X 88  *  --r- NW2 
a   O,  a O  ,   ,   C OCP OA                  'A r  w'                                             -a    DNNS N vVX W R O {8 @ |8W . N       11@X|f
1E~~~~~~  ~~~~                  a    'A "! aA [                                                    3H  L\ r-E !rN5M tSW~ N E|H >OO > 1     i
*        *                                                                               a                                  
Oa   -NN_  W_*-|||-|@-  a            ,,,F,,,ODl
8 > O w -      O,  Ow |.' ' r e .  WF @    O  |I * I E |  | Vl    | *I I { a I     O  F   w  1a



THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Diesel Locomootive Reenirmoents 1975-1979
AMU                                   ~~~~~~~~~~- - - - --_    - -  PbOWgD - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1974                    1975                    1976                    1977                    1978                     1979
Freight net ToM Km  (including mixed)(billions)                                                25.5                    27.8                    29.3                     31.3                    35.7                    37.2
Factor, gross ton ks to net ton 1s                                                              2.0                     2.0                     2.0                      2.0                     2.0                     2.0
Freight gross ton kos (including oied)(billions)              (I x 2)                          50.9                    55.7                    58.7                     62.6                    71.3                     74.4
Freight gross ton km (excluding mixed)(billion.)                                               49.3                    54.1                    57.1                     61.0                    59.7                     72.8
Freight trains average speed (K,oho.r)                                                         19.7                    19.7                    19.7                     20.4                    21.1                    21.8
Gross ton km Par HP at 100% utilis-tion
increased in direct proportion to average speed                                             88.9                    88.9                    88.9                    92.0                     95.2                    98.3
Freight-Loco=otive HP required at 1007 utilization (000) (4 t 6)                              555.2                   608.9                   642.8                   663.0                    732.9                   740.1
Freight-Locomotive utilisation co-efficient                                                   0.490                   0.504                   0.504                   0.511                    0.518                   0.525
Freight-Locomotive HP required in service          (000) (7 x 8)                             1133.1                  1208.1                  1275.4                   1297.4                  1414.9                  1409.7
Freight-Locomotive availability ce-efficient                                                   0.82                    0.82                    0.82                     0.83                    0.84                    0.85
Freight-Locomotive HP required is fleet             (000)(9 x 10)                            1381.9                  1473.3                  1555.3                   1563.1                  1684.4                  1658.5
Add for shunting  Locomotive HP (including out of service)                                                                                    306.1                    312.4                   331.1                   334.6
)   678.3                    678.3
passenger and mixed traine + HP   ditto                                          )                                                    372.2                    367.7                   363.3                   359.0
1 '  retirments (as estimated by N de M)                                                      -                     169.6                    78.2                    52.3                     53.1                    55.4
Total HP required in fleet                (11+12+13+14)                                      2060.2                  2321.2                  2311.8                   2295.5                  2432.0                  2407.5
Total HP available                                                                           2060.2                  2114.0                  2113.1                   2235.7                  2244.6                  2381.1
Balance HP required                                                                            -                      207.2                   198.7                     59.8                   187.4                    26.4
Locomotive snits/propoeed in N de M Investment Plan 1975-79                                                      20x2000 HP              5922000 HP               18.2000 HP              57x2000 HP               9x2000 HP
30x2250 RP                                                                  -                         -
17x3600 HFP            1c3600 HP               _x3600 HP               Bfl3600 HP                 3x3600 HP
67                     82                       .                ,,     78                       12
Additional HP proposed in N de M  Investment Plan (000)                                                               168.7                   200.8                     61.2                   189.6                    28.8
Surplua (shortage) HP at end of year (000)                                                                            (38,5)                    2.1                      1.4                     2.2                     2.2
Average locomotive km per freight locomotive in service per day
(5x8x24 hours)                                  231.6                    238.3                    238.3                   250.2                    262.3                   274.8
Average Locomotive km per freight locomotive in service per year                          84,500                    87,000                   87,000                   91,300                  95,700                 100,300
(21x365 days)
Source N de M and Mission
May 1975



MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Car Requirements 1977-1979
1977 _78                                                           1979
Freight net ton km per year - from traffic projectionB (billion)                                     31.3                             35.2                              36.8
Deduct bulk oil traffic (Cars provided by PlIfX) (billion)                                            3.9                              4.1                               4.3
Balance general freight traffic per year (billion) (1-3)                                             27.4                             31.1                              32.5
Increase by 8.76% (N de M figure) for longer operating than traffic                                  29.8                             33.8                              35.3
charging distances (billion)
Average freigpt net ton km per day (million) (4;365 days)                                            81.6                             92.6                              96.7
Average car load, loaded cars only (excluding oil traffic)                                           49.8                             51.5                              51.5
Percentage loaded to total car km (excluding oil traffic)                                            62.0                             61.1                              61.2
Average car km per serviceable car day (excluding oil traffic)                                       60.5                             64.7                              65.8
Average ton km per serviceable car day (excluding oil traffic)(6x7x8)                                1868                             2036                              2074
Total serviceable cars required per day (excluding oil traffic) (5#9)                           .43,683                             45,481                            16,625
Average number N de M cars in fleet for general traffic                                            31,933                           35,593                            37,068
Number N de M cars added in year for general traffic  ./                                            3.800                            1.600                             1.600
Total N de M care in fleet for general traffic (11+12)                                             35.733                           37.193                            38.688
Deduct - out of service 5%                                                                          1,822                            1,897                             1,922
- N de M cars on others railways                                                             1,860                            1,860                             1,860
- N de M cars retired in year                                                                  140                              125                               100
- Total (14+15+16)                                                                           3,822                            3,822                             3,932
Average number N de M cars available for general traffic (13+17)                                   31,911                           33,311                            34.736
Add - other Mexican railways' care on N de M                                                        1,530                            1,530                             1,530
- other private owner cars on N de M                                                            3,460                            3,V460                            3,460
Total number cars available on N de M for general traffic (18+19+20)                               36,901                           38,301                            39,726
Balance of cars to be met from foreign railways' cars (10-21)                                       6,782                            7,180                             6,889
Minimum number of foreign cars required for import traffic                                          6,800                            6,912                             7,059
Addition above foreign cars (22-23)                                                                 2,500                            1,590                             1,670
Add private owner and local cars of PEMEX (approximate)                                             7,500                            7,500                             7,500
- N de M service cars (approximate)                                                            2,500                            2,500                             2,500
Total freight cars including oil and service, on N de M lines (21+22+25+26)                        52,700                           54,100                            56,600
i/ Freight cars for receipt up to year ending December 1976 have already been ordered by i de M. Freight cars shown in above table for receipt in 1977
will be ordered in 1976, for 1978 in 1977 and for 1979 in 1978.
Source: N de M and Nisuion
July 1975



Ico
TRhIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M Freight Traffic in 1966, 1970, 1974 and Forecast for 1976. 1978 end 1980
-1966 -----6 ----  1970 ------              1974 ---    -        1976           ---19         78----- 1980----
Ton      T-Kr       Ton      T-Km        Ton      T-Km        Ton     T-Km         Ton      T-Km        Ton      T-K;
Groups of Products               (000)  (million)    (000)  (million)    (000)  (milion)    (0         (million)      n=    (002  tmi1liga
1. Agricultual and Forestry    7,703       3,524     8,100      3,864     9,870      5,103     9,810      5,164    10,614      5,608    11,485      6,091
2. Mineral                          11         1J        1/        1/     3,717      7,624    16,473    10,436    21,r648    13,733    24,711    i5,597
3. Hydrocarbons                  3,815      1,641     4,735     2,170      6,186     2,732      5,934     2,442      6,436     2,642      6,5?81       62
4. InorganicY                    2,314       594      2,365       810      7,862     1,825     8,528      2,162     9.363      2,396    10,I9?      2,638
5. Industrial3]                 17,202Y!   7,9201/  21,6801/  10,2621'  13,273       7,612    15,795      8,9o4    17,986    10,155    20,610    11,822
6. Other                         1,296        868    _1 2 a       8          616                 64 1 2                60        561        721
Sabtotal                     32,484    14,661    38,324    18,099    51,524    25,405    57,181    29,637    66,727    35,095    74,605    39,605
7. Less than Gar Load (L CL)        NA         NA        NA        Ni        176   -   52         175        50        17~     _         -
Total                            NA         NA        NA        NA    51,700    25,1457    57,356    29,687    66,902    35,145    74,780    39,655
1/ Available information for 1966 and 1970 does not allcm a separation between industrial and mineral products.  The figures listed under the
heading of Industrial coprise the total of both groups.
Sand, sulfur, limestone, salt, varlous inorganic.
3/ Including sugar and molasses.
NA  Not available
Source: N de M
July 1975



8gCO
TOIRD RAIDAY PROJECT
Revenue, femsa and Not Lose - 1974-1979
(in  H~ Million)_
- - - - - - - - -ACTUAL - - - - - - - -  - - -        - - - - - - - - - - FCAST - - - - - - - - - -
1972       1973                1974                   1975       2976        1977       1978       1979
N de Y        Costing
study A/
OPBEATING REVENUE
Freight - carload and LCL traffic                                2,079       2,038      2,511         2,511             3,645      3,994      4,217      4,616       4,843
Passenger - fares, baggage and miscellaneous                       151        129         151           151               172        188        197        208         215
Express (traffic and storage) from costing                         100         101        110           110               140        150        161         173        181
Mail                                                                35          47         48            48                57         65         67          69         73
Local haulage                                                       25          25         30            30                28         33         35         39          42
Demarrage                                                           30         46          93            93               100        106        113         126        135
Equipment rents                                                     41         40          73            73                75         80         85         90          98
Mincellaneous                                                       26          20         27            27                34         35         36         37          38
Additional tariff adjustment:
Freight                                                                                                                            -         425        470         494
Peasenger                                                                                                                          25         40         40          56
TAX refund by Govermuent on gross receipt                                                                                456         504        581        638         670
Sub-Total                                              2,487      2,716      3,043         3,043             4,707      5,180       5,957        506       6,844
Compensation by Government on unprofitable services                 -         -           -             -                 -          1400       :3550      320         265
Total Operating Revenue                                2.487      2.716      3,043          3.043            4,707      5,50        6,07        ,          7.109
OPERATING EXPENDITURE
Staff Costs
Wages, salaries, overtime, etc.                                  1,610       1,840      2,265         2,265             2,796      2,900      3,119      3,315       3,400
Bonuses and concessions                                            221        261        331            331              406        425         436        430         455
Pensions                                                           384        437         552           552              650        670         690        718         730
Sick pay                                                            44         51         60             60               77         82          87         93         95
Medical and hospital                                               162         179        226           226               275        280        288        296         300
Sub-Total                                              2,421      2,768      3,434         3,434             4,204      4,357      4,620      4,872       4,980
Fuel, water nd lubricants                                          187        225         336           336              350         365        383        410        425
Material and other changes                                         713        778       1,005         1,178            1,267       1,451      1,627      1,715      1,735
Freight car rents                                                  129        210        217            217              260         270        250        220         180
working costs (cash outgoing.)                                  3,450      3,981      4,992          5,165            6,081       6.443      6,880      7,217      7,320
Depreciation                                                       228        243         269           502              300         340        360        385        400
Less:  Reduction of loss on uneconomic passenger train.                                                                              (60)       (90)      (120)       (160)
Total Operating Expenditures                           3,678      4,224      5,261         5,667             6,381      6,723      7,130       7,482      7,560
Net working revenue or (lose)                                     (963)    (1,265)    (1,949)        (2,122)           (1,374)     (803)        (f83)     (271)       (51)
Net operating loss                                              (1,191)    (1,508)    (2,218)        (2,624)            1,674     1,143          643       656        451
Interest charges                                                   182        253         355           355              843         923        958        987        890
Net deficits                                                    (1,373)    (1,761)    (2,573)         2,979            2,517      2,o66      1,801       1,643      1,341
Working ratio:  with Government compensation                       139         147        164           170               129        123        112        106         101
without Government compensation                    -          -          -              -                129        124         114        109        105
Operating ratio:  vith Government compensation                     -          -           -             -                136         128        118        112         105
vithout Government cmpeneetion                   148        156        173           186               136        130        120         115        110
Time interest earned
Debt service coverage
Return on net fixed assets                                                                -
1/ The figures are based on results of traffic costing study conducted by the Bank for 1974  nd depreciation is calculated on revaluated assets
including rails, sleepers and ballast.
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
February 1976



MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Summry Bal ce Sheets
(in Mexf-51ill]-on)
-Actual -----------                        ---------------Estimated---------------
1372         1971        1224         1922          1976         1227         1978         1979
Fixed Assets
Gross book value                                             17,368       18,399       20,037      21,659         23,892       26,586      28,675       30,191
Less accumulated depreciation                                      )      (3,133)      (3,195)      (2,630)       2892                      28,600   2.759
Total net fixed assets                                  14,511       15,266       16,842       19,029        21,345        24,071      26,075       27,432
Deferred Assets                                                      85           199         173          288           319           318         276          282
Investment and Deposits                                              46          208          151          373           381           359         365          366
Current Assets
Cash in hand and at banks                                        68          137          188          400           442          500         500           500
Cash in transit                                                  75           42           36          106            90            57          80           80
Receivable, net of bad & doubtful debt provisions               211          189          248          282           296          328         349           371
Inventories, net of provision for obsolescence                  558          504          677        1,392         1,469        1606        1,683        1,757
and deterioration
Total current assets                                        912          872       1,49         2,180          2,297                    2,612        2,708
15,554       16545       183152739                                            29.342
Current Liabilities
Creditors and accrued expenses                                      516          641          645        1,495         1,492         1,576       1,597        1,593
Deferred liabilities                                                  58            1            1         -               -           -            -            -
Debt
Short and medium term loans and suppliers credits             1,300        1,679        1,083          -              -           -             -            -
Long term loans                                               1.031        1,430        3.690        5,561         6.351        7,575       7,781         7,524
Total debt                                                2,331       3,109        4,773        5,561          6,351        7,575       7,781        7,524
Government Equity
Capital subscription and subventions                         13,464       13,171       13,325       15,029        16,908       18,787      20,992       23,031
Less accumulated deficits                                      (815)        (377)        (429)        (215)         (409)        (699)      1,042        (1,360
Total net equity                                         12,649       12,794      12,896       14,814         16,499       18,088      19,950       21,671
15,554   16,545  182315  212870         24,342       27,239      29.328       30.788
Debt/Equity ratio                                                 15/85        19/81        27/73        27/73         28/72        30/70       28/72       26/74          L
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
February 1976



mIXrco
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Cash Flow and Financing Plan
(in hi              Ianion
Actual                                - Estimated - - - - - - - - - - - - -               TOTAL
1974          1975          1976           1977          1978           1979           1975-1979
Requirements
Net Operating Deficits                                2,218         1,674          ,1ks3           843            6.6           bI5             4,767
Lessu   Depreciation Provision                          269           300           340            360            385           400             1-785
Net Caah Deficit (surplus) on operation               1,949         1,374           tO3            4B3           271             51             2,982
Increase in working capital                             273           181            120           110            100           100               611
Estimated debt repayments:
Local:  Interest charges                              171           401           397            429           439            354             2,020
Redemption                                   566           485            432           423            698            759            2,797
Foreign:  Interest charges                            13            442           526            529            548           536             2,581
Redemption                                 350           306            454           418            420            310            1,908
Capital Investment,
Local                                                 689           840         1,063          1,823          1,792         1,159             6,677
Foreign                                               949         1,652         1,606          1,280            619           623             5,780
Total                                           5 130          5 681         5               I95          k.U7
Sources of Funds
Government contribution                               2,550         3,189        2t,732          2,392         2,366          2,210            12,909
Decrease in working capital
Borrowings:
Foreign:  IBRD - 825-ME                              376            246           130             -             -              -                376
IBRD - Proposed Loan                        -                           166            510           310             -                986
Other 1/                                   949          1,406         1,310            770           399            323            4,208
Local                                               1.231           840         1.063          1.823          1.792         1.359             6.877
Total                                       5.130          5.681         LS4oQ          5,495          i,887         3,892
1/  This includes: (i)  Project loans (1976, 1977) from international sources excluding the Bank and (ii) future loans for the remainder of the
investment plan (1975-1979) from the Bank and other international sources.
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
Februsry 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
THIRD RA[LWAY PROJECT
A Review of SOP Works
1.        SOP work programs are invariably prepared jointly by N de M, SCT and
SOP, and the finalized programs carry the seal of these three organizations
to ensure that all relevant aspects have been taken into account. The works
fall mainly under two categories:
Group 1:  Works which are initiated mainly by N de M and are
related to improvement of the railway workings, e.g.,
removal of capacity constraints, realignments,
regrading, doubling, etc. These works are given the
highest priority by the railways.
Group 2:  New lines or new works whose objective, in addition
to satisfying a transportation need, is the develop-
ment of economic activity in the framework of the
country's plans, and the assisting in industriali-
zation, urban develoFment and the fullest development
of the potential resources in whose exploitation the
railway plays an important role.
2.        Works in group 1, broadly referred to as "Mejoramientos", are con-
cerned mainly with realignments and rectifications of existing lines to re-
duce the gradients and curvatures. These are justified since the construc-
tion of the existing railway was started in the nineteenth century and the
track was laid out and designed for rolling stock and motive power of the old
type which has now become obsolete and has been replaced by heavier rolling
stock. The reduction of gradients and curvatures and the realignments there-
fore permit the use of heavier stock at better speeds and enable the new
rolling stock and motive power to be utilized to their full capability. The
same applies to "mejoramientos" related to capacity constraints, such as
bypasses and doubling, which improve capacity.
3.        Works in group 2 pertain to new lines justified for additional
transportation needs; under this category come such works as the Las Truchas-
Corondiro line for the steel plant at Las Truchas. All SOP works in group 1
as well as group 2 are examined jointly by N de M, SCT and SOP, and, for the
new works, detailed feasibility studies are made in addition to the economic
evaluation (minimum rate of return 12%) which is done for all projects.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.         SOP Works in Progress (1971-75)
Section                                                Type of Work
(i)  Mexico-Queretaro           -    Realignment and doubling.  This is
one of the sections with the highest
traffic, and the work of doubling was
started in 1967. Likely to be com-
pleted in 1980.
(ii)  Corondiro-Las Truchas    -    For the exploitation of iron ore
resources - new line 200 km long to
connect Las Truchas steel plant, being
set up with Bank assistance. Likely
to be completed in 1978.
(iii)  Toros-Puerto Madero         -    New branch line 12 km long to connect
with new port - line almost completed.
(iv)  Suchiate Bridge             -    Joint road/rail bridge connecting
N de M with Guatemala Railways to re-
place wooden bridge frequently washed
away by floods - work completed.
(v)  Lecheria-Joltocan           -    Bypass lines north of Mexico City to
Teotichuacan                     avoid passage of some goods trains
through Valle de Mexico Yard. Work
will be completed in 1978.
(vi)  San Francisco del           -    Detour for dam works at El Barrial,
Rincon Guanajal                  which will inundate existing lines.
(vii)  Risco-Cuautla-              -    South of Mexico, started in 1962, com-
El Pastor                        pleted in 1974 as first stage for the
south line.
5.         SOP Works Planned for 1976-1982 (Mejoramientos)
(i)  Irapuato-Manzanillo         -    Realignment/regrading Sanula-San Nicolas
(15 kin) and connection line Tlajomulco-
El Castillo (24 kn) - to be undertaken
in 1977.
(ii)  Mexico-Veracruz             -    Realignment and regrading of 14 differ-
ent sections on the Sureste line - to
be undertaken gradually between 1976 and
1982.
(iii)  Mexico-Laredo               -    Realignment and regrading of Pinto Bocas
(14 km) and Saltillo-Ramos Arizpe (13 km) -
to be undertaken in 1980.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(iv)  Mexico - Ciudad Juarez   -    2 sections - 14 km/33 km - realign-
ment and regrading.
(v)  Truchas-Mexico            -    Realignment and regrading of six sections
- to be undertaken between 1978 and 1982.
(vi)  Aguas Calientes-Tampico- -    Realignment and regrading projected
Cuantla-Cuerranaca             for 1980/1981.
6.        New Works Planned for 1976-82 (Tentative)
(i)  Perote-Teziutlan          -    Broadening of existing narrow gauge
line to provide a connection between
two existing lines (40 km ) on the
main line to Veracruz - to bypass hill
section on main line. Proposed for
1977-1978.
(ii)  Shortcut Mexico-          -    220 km Mexico-Magosal or Peroto Teziutlan-
Tampico                        Mascarenas - not yet decided.
(iii)  Costera del Golfo         -    280 km Guadalupe-Cardel or Tecolutla-
Cardel - not yet decided.
(iv)  Shortcut Guadalajara-    -    160 km El Castillo-San Juan de Lagos
Monterrey                      or Atotonilco-San Francisco del Ricon.
(v)  Salinas Venado            -    100 km to couple with (iv) above.
(vi)  Shortcut Mexico-          -    110 km Salinas-Victor Rosales.
Ciudad Juarez
December 1975



smco
TN1RD MAILAY PlDJWCT
Org.nttttioEI Dtagr - N de 11
GD~         [I~Z ]                               SImAL                 LMO6. AMI            TRAK               IAI
A.I14IMSRATIN   AI1CO                                                      aoLINCOPUATIORS                                         TAlCP    U                                                       U
N~~ ~ ~   ~         ~ 6
D.W.  MLY 1975:                                                                     m       n                                                               E  TT I
D-t.  lley 197S



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXICO
THIRD RkILWAY PROJECT
Staff Data - N de M
I.   Position of Staff 1975
Post Operated
Posts           in Anticipation
Sanctioned         of Government
Department                                  by Government           Sanction
Administration Council                               3
General Manager's Office                          170                   11
Public Relations                                    17                   -
Special Services                                  187                    -
Way and Structures                             16,629                   33
Rolling stock and Motive Power                 17,973                  454
Transport                                      13,634                1,285
Electricity/Telecommunications                  1,352                   31
Passenger Traffic                                  61                    -
Freight Traffic                                   150                   15
Train Checks                                      325                    -
Car Service                                        31                    2
Express                                         3,034                    9
Legal                                              40                    1
Personnel                                         163                    -
Medical                                         2,674                    6
Social Services                                   282                    6
Accounting                                      1,282                   15
Treasury                                          183                    5
Budget                                            111                    -
Data Processing                                   132                   56
Purchases                                          78                    -
Stores                                            801                    6
Tests and Analysis                                207
Internal Auditor                                  100
Technical Department                                75                   8
Training Institute                                194                   50
Statistical Office                                   7
Coordination Comission                            517                    5
New York Purchase Office                           27                    -
Central Administration                            150                    -
Equipment Accounts                                112                   15
Complementary                                     549
61,250               2,013



ANNEX 3
Page 2
II.  Total No. of Posts                   63,263
Traffic Units (millions)             29,053
Productivity per Post               459,242 units
Source: N de M
December 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXtCO
THIRD RAILIWAY PROJECT
Property, Maintenance and Operations
A.   Track
1.        Principal traffic lines are laid mostly with 100 to 115 lb/yd rail,
while secondary and branch lines have 75 to 85 lb/yd rail, with a few branch
lines having light rail of 50 to 60 lb/yd. Sleepers are almost wholly
impregnated hardwood and softwood timber, although concrete sleepers have
been used on main line relaying for some years. Standard rails are 39 ft.
long with 4-bolt fishplates; relaid track has welded joints, station to
station, mostly of the thermit type., although two electric flash butt weld
plants are available, and flash butt welding is being increasingly used for
rail welds. Ballast is of reasonable quality on relaid tracks but is
generally inadequate and of poor quality elsewhere. The lighter rails are
inadequate for the heavy axle load locomotives and cars now in general use.
Rails have suffered damage from insuifficient support due to the ballast
condition and to the high proportior of timber sleepers (about 20% average
throughout the system) in poor condition and in need of replacement. The
problems are compounded on the steep hill sections between the main coastal
ports and the upland interior; most such lines carry heavy gross tonnages
of traffic on grades up to 3% uncompensated, with continuous curvature, up
to 140, without transitions and inadequate tangents between reverse curves;
rail wear and damage are heavy on these sections while drainage is poor due
to the accumulation of sand used for adhesion and deposited on the ballast
by locomotives climbing the grades.
2.        For principal lines, N de M policy is to relay with:  (a) 115 lb/yd
rail (except on continuous grade and curvature sections where second-hand
112 lb/yd rail, work-hardened on tangents, will be used as being more resis-
tant to wear than new rail fresh from the rolling mill); (b) flash butt joint
welded rail into 1,053 ft lengths at depots, and then into continuous lengths
by thermit welds in the track; (c) post-tensioned reinforced concrete sleepers
(locally manufactured) at 1,660 per }in; (d) elastic clip fastenings insulated
for future CTC, with bolted connections to the sleepers (all also made locally);
and (e) 1,500-1,700 cu m of good quality stone or slag ballast. For lesser
traffic lines, released 100-112 lb/yd rail in good condition will be used:
(a) after classifying, cropping and welding at the welding depots (the two
plants available have sufficient capacity, about 210 welds per plant per two
shift day, to meet the program for new and recovered rail); (b) with timber
sleepers being made good as required (25% average being allowed new out of
1,990 sleepers per km); (c) with new larger bearing plates and screw
fastenings; and (d) an improved stone ballast section (60% average allowed
new). On remaining lines, arrears of timber sleeper replacements need to be
made good and the ballast section improved.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        N de M manufactures all its own switch and crossing components at
the mechanical workshops at Aguascalientes.
4.        The position on rail, at present and proposed at the end of the
Investment Plan period, 1979, is approximately as follows:
1974           1979
(km)           (km)
Principal lines - 115 lb/yd               1,200           2,850
- 110-112 lb/yd          4,200           3,550
- 100 lb/yd              3,900           3,900
Secondary and branch lines
- less than 90 lb/yd    4,700            3,700
14,000         14,000
5.        All relaying work is carried out by N de M's own work forces, aided
now by mechanical equipment provided under the Second Railway Project. The
standard of finish is generally good, but more preparatory work is needed in
restoring the formation (or platform) and drainage before the relaying opera-
tion is carried out. N de M intends to deal with this aspect in the future.
Rail required is to American specifications and is all imported (recently
wholly from Canada because N de M had a poor experience with US Steel rail
delivered in 1972), Concrete sleepers (about 900,000 required 1976-1977) can
be supplied in adequate quantity from local sources; timber sleepers can
probably also be obtained (about 1,500,000 required 1976-1977) if an adequate
price is paid; imported sleepers are also used at a considerably higher cost;
all timber sleepers are impregnated at N de M's own depots; average life is
15-20 years, but 20-25 years could probably be obtained with better ballasting,
drainage and maintenance. N de M considers that it can obtain and transport
adequately the quantities of stone ballast required.
6.        Track maintenance is wholly manual and is based on an average of
one man per km with additions for curvature and switches. Usual gang lengths
are 10-20 km, the gangs being equipped with locally manufactured gang and
material trollies for transport. Inspectors cover 160-200 km with one or
two senior inspectors and one or two engineers per division. The manning
is on the low side, and the average maintenance standard achieved is adequate
only for modest speeds. N de M intends to provide track machinery (mainly
ballast tampers, regulators, compactors and track liners) and to consolidate
the gangs into longer sections (of 50 km) over the relaid and improved tracks
in order to obtain better standards of maintenance in the future.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
B.   Locomotives, Cars and Workshops
7.        N de M has 1,014 diesel locomotives, of which about 198 are of low
horsepower up to 1,350 hp, 427 between 1,500 to 1,800 hp and 389 between
2,400 and 3,600 hp. Diesel locomotives are repaired at the San Luis Potosi
workshops with some of the special work decentralized to the Guadalajara
workshops. Repair schedules generally follow the makers' recommendations,
but schedules of replacements and maintenance have been adapted to local
conditions.
8.        There are 26,262 freight cars in the system comprising 17,020 box
cars, 5,058 gondolas, 527 cattle vans, 609 platforms, 954 hoppers, 1,517 tank-
cars and 577 caboose vans. The railway had no system of scheduling freight
cars for regular periodic overhauls, but a scheme has been implemented in the
Aguascalientes workshops for the reconditioning of box cars. A modern belt
system has been installed with the assistance of the consultants (TOPS-On-Line),
and 10 box cars are being reconditioned per day. This is also part of a scheme
for rationalization of workshop capacity, with certain workshops specializing
in certain types of rolling stock. 'In pursuit of this scheme, it is also
proposed to centralize tank car repairs at Apizaco (2.5 tanks per day), gon-
dola repairs at Matias Romero (4 gondolas per day), and hopper cars at Ciudad
Frontera (2 hoppers per day). Eventually, after an adequate number of freight
cars have been reconditioned, it was suggested by the mission to N de M that
the preventive maintenance of cars oni a program basis be started, whereby
freight cars would be called into shops at regular intervals for periodic
averhauls.
9.        As far as passenger coaches are concerned, N de M has 1,389 coaches,
of which a large number (943) are 20 years or more of age. New passenger
coaches are not yet manufactured in Mexico and 200 new coaches are to be im-
ported from Canada. Repair and maintenance facilities for passenger coaches
exist, however, in the railway workshops.
C.   Operations
10.       Train control is almost wholly by line orders from dispatchers ope-
rating through station-to-station line wires. Only passenger trains are run
according to detailed timetables; freight trains at present have only approx-
imate starting and terminal timings, but several unit/through trains are now
programmed to be run to timetables. No signals are provided, and many way-
side crossing loops are unmanned, with switches being operated and crossings
being made by the train crews in accordance with the line orders. Centralized
traffic control (CTC) with color light signalling has been installed on four
sections of the line; two between Mexico City and Monterey, one between Mexico
City and Teholtihuacan, and one from Valle de Mexico main yard to the Buena-
vista passenger station in Mexico City. Three additional sections are proposed
in the 1975-1979 Investment Plan: one to complete Mexico City-Monterey, one
for the heavily used Veracruz-Mexico City hill section and the third for
Aragon-Ahocado, the northern approach to Mexico City, where SOP is already
carrying out a realignment with double track. Average net train loads have
been increasing slowly from 930 tons :Ln 1970 to 1,160 tons in 1974. More
powerful locomotives are being introduced, crossing loops and yards are being



ANNEX 4
Page 4
lengthened and the operation of unit and through trains is being started for
the transport of iron ore, pellets, limestone, coke, crude oil and other
commodities.
11.       N de M has a separate safety and accident control department,
responsible to the General Manager. The departmental head is President of
a Safety Committee, under which there are 19 divisional committees which
examine all accidents on the line. Accident enquiries begin on site, with
the final analysis being done at the head office. A final report is made
and sent to the General Manager. The Government also has, at SCT, an inspec-
torate of accidents with zonal inspectors who participate in the N de M
enquiry and make a report to SCT based on the N de M report. The emphasis
of the new management has been on decreasing accidents. Detailed statistics
are kept on all accidents, but no division is made between those in yard, on
main lines and on branch lines, so that it is not easy to make a judgment
on the record. However, serious accidents are rare, and, while there were
about 300 collisions and 1,370 derailments in 1974, about 20% only, or less
than one per day, occurred outside yards and stations. Broken rails are also
rare, and the few that do occur are on branch lines with old light rails.
12.       Train operations are controlled by the Operating Department, but
cars are allotted and controlled by the Traffic Department. This is the
American system, which has been acquired historically by the Mexican railways
due to their closeness to the US railroads and due to the several points at
which the two systems interact with each other. There is a central car infor-
mation service with computer processing of reports and accounting for and
distributing cars, but the system so far is inadequate, with no records kept
of times spent by cars in terminals, sidings, etc. The average car turn-
around time is high, but measures are in hand to improve it. Unit and
through trains are being introduced for bulk and mineral traffic.
13.       The PICL System (Permanent Inventory of Car Location) is being intro-
duced, with the assistance of TOPS-On-Line, at the main Valle de Mexico ter-
minal of Mexico City and should be completed to cover the marshalling, trans-
fer and dispatch yards and connected industrial sidings in about six months
time. When complete, it should be feasible to keep track of all cars in and
out of yards and sidings and to produce statements of cars delayed 24, 36,
48 hours, etc. Thereafter, N de M will introduce the system into the other
main freight centers in accordance with a detailed time schedule. With the
assistance of TOPS-On-Line and Missouri Pacific, a modern car control system
is being introduced, comprising the "Advance Consist" system for trains and
the "YATS" car control system for the yards.
14.       There are two other notable features of car utilization on N de M:
(a) Tank Cars: All tank cars for bulk oil, asphalt and related
products belong to or are leased (from US leasing companies)
by the state oil enterprise PEMEX. N de M therefore does not
control their loading/unloading or detention in oil terminals.
Because of long detentions at terminal points, the average
turnaround time is very high (and this affects the overall
average figure on N de M to some extent).



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(b) Sugar Traffic: There is a large seasonal, short haul sugar
cane traffic during December to June in the southeast of the
country, to which some 1,500-2,000 gondola cars are allocated.
Here again, the utilization and turnaround is poor, and N de
M could very well cater for this traffic by using old life-
expired cars, suitably modified for bulk sugar-cane transport,
with the gondolas being employed for more profitable general
cargo. N de M has noted this proposal for future action.
February 1976



ANNEX 5
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Track Renewal Program - 1975-1979
Item   Line                          Section              New Rail      Used Rail
(km.)        (kmi)
1.      B           Morales - Nuevo Laredo                 206              -
2.      M.           Cd. Madero - Hipolito                 665              -
3.      A.           Irapuata - Felipe Pescador            327              -
4.      L.           Empalme distrito - Corcovada           43              -
5.      I.           Patti - Yurecuaro                      20              -
6.      A.           Tlaltepaxco - Aragon                   51              -
7.      B.           Calera - Aragon                        45              -
8.      H.           Lecheria - Jaltocan                    19              -
9.      V.           San Lorenzo - Oriental                116              -
10.     V.           Los Berros - Vera Cruz                 94              -
II.     P.           Jimenez - Rosario                       -             41
12.     RC.          Barroteron - Muzquiz                    -             12
13.                  Encantada - Carneros                    -             15
14.                  Durango - Felipe Pescador               -            170
15.     L.           Chicolote - San Luis Potosi             -            108
16.     LA.          San Bartolo - Rio Verde                 -             40
17.     IN.          Penjamo - Ajuno                         -            134
18.     C.           Emilio Zapata - Mextitlan               -             62
19.     E.          Puebla - Tomellin                        -            160
20.     VB.          San Lorenzo - Los Arcos                 -             50
21.     ZA.          Hibueras - Minatillan                   -             11
22.     K.           Ixtapec - Tapachula                     _            149
23.     GB.          Tres Valles - San Cristobal             -             48
TOTAL - for 5 years                 1,586          1,000
Average per year                      317            200
February 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M's Plan of Action
1.        N de M shall (a) prepare and (b) introduce a corporate plan
designed to achieve the targets set. forth below:
1976     1977      1978     1979
(a)  Operating ratio /1         130       120       115      110
(b) Locomotive-km per
freight locomotive
in service              87,000   91,000   95,000  100,000
(c) Locomotives out of
order percentage         15.3%       15%    14.5%       14%
(d)  TonAkm/freight
car/day                  1,700    1,800    2,000    2,050
(e) Average turnaround time
of freight cars           15.5      15.0     14.5      13.7
(f) Freight cars out of
order percentage           5.0       4.8      4.7       4.5
(g) Number of foreign cars
on line                  9,000    7,500    7,300    7,100
/1   Operating ratio shall mean the ratio which total operating
expenses (including rental of equipment and excluding interest)
shall bear to total operating revenues, excluding any compen-
sation paid by the Govermnent to N de M.
2.        In order to achieve the targets set forth in paragraph 1 preceding,
N de M shall:
(a) Take all necessary action to reduce operating costs to achieve
the desired operating efficiency.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(b) Furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1977, a man-
power plan which will include, inter alia: (i) the depart-
mental distribution of manpower year by year up to 1980
in accordance with the improvements in the operations of N
de M as set forth in N de M's Investment Plan and the
Plan of Action; (ii) a scheme for the solution of the
problem arising from over-aged personnel and for the long-
range reduction of the financial burden of pensions; and
(iii) a scheme for the improvement of recruitment and
training standards for the staff of N de M.
(c) Perform, periodically, a cost analysis of low density branch
lines and recommend that the Government either permit aban-
donment or pay compensation in order to eliminate deficits.
(d) Carry out, no later than December 31, 1976, a study on the
economic implications of less-than-carload traffic;
furnish to the Bank such study and give the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to comment thereon; and, if the
study finds less-than-carload traffic uneconomical, pro-
gressively eliminate losses on account of such traffic.
3.        N de M shall continue to submit to the Government claims for the
losses on mail service.
4.        N de M shall take all necessary action to obtain such revenues as
will, added to the taxes on gross revenues and on revenues from freight and
passenger services, permit it to cover, no later than 1983, all operating costs
and interest on debt, and, by no later than 1986, all operating costs and
debt service; to this end, the financial projections and related actions of
N de M will be reviewed and adjusted periodically with the Bank according
to the progress made in the 1975-1979 period.
February 1976



MEXICO
TEIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Program of Second Railway Prolect
Evaluation of ?rogress Realized
1.     STATISTICAL TARGETS                       1972       1973       [974       1975                   Remarks
(a)  Number of Staff    - Target    59,000    59,000    59,000    59,000
Actuil    59,000    60,000    61,000    63,263    See pras. 3.06 and 3.07  Appraisal Report
(b)  New operating ratio  Target         1.43       1.43       L.27       1.30
Actual                  1.56       L.73       1.36    See para. 6.12 Appraisal Report
(c)  Net ton-ks per         Target    20,000       20,000   20,000    20,000
freight train hour   Actual    21,437         23,607   24,272    25,127    Distinct improvement
(d)  Locomotive ks per )  Target    90,000         92,000   95,000    97,500
annum per ML loon )  Actual    90,950         91,639   97,691      n.a.      Distinct improvement
in use
(e)  Locosotive out of    Target           15          15        15         15
order percentage      Actual          17          16     I.5.          15    Distinct improvement
(f)  Ton km/serviceable   Target        1,450       1,560    1,650       1,700
car day               Actual       1,473       1,510    1,550      1,600
(g)  Freight cars out or  Target            9           8         7          6    Distinct improvement
order percentage      Actual           6.0         5.5      g5.0        5.O
2.     COSTING SYSTEM                                                           POSITION
Establish a costing system to determine:                  )             - N de M met the target of establishing the required
(a)  Avoidable cost of passenger train operation, and)                    costing system by Nay 31, 1974.
(b)  long-run variable cost of freight transport
by commodity.                                       )
3.     N de H should recommend to Goverinent:
(a)  By July 31, 1972, Government payment for carriage QC  nadil    - This is being complied with by the Government.
By December 31, 1972
(b)  Program for curtailment/abandonment/iocrease of                    - Out of aonie 54 trains N de M discontinued 14 trains in late  1974
farea for passenger trains                                            and has received approval from  the Government to discontinue or
modify an additional 10 services during 1976. N de M will further
review each year this matter in order to rationalize services and/
or increase fares with the objective of reducing progressively the
passenger trains losses.
(c)  Adjustment of fares from time to time.                             - N de N raised fares by about 22% effective February 1975 and has
also requested another raise of about 257. which is under Government
consideration.
4.     Government shall from time to time, beginning not later than
July 31, 1972, recommend to Government:
(a)  Adjustment of freight rates to cover at least long-run             - N de M requested and got approval from the Government to
variable costs.                                                      raise freight and empress rates by 447, and 40% respectively
effective January 1975. Though action was taken late,
freight revenues nw cover long-run variable cost.
(b)  A program for identification of subsidies in N de M
accounts should Government not authorize the above
adjustment in freight rates                                  )       See item  3(b).The Government agreed to pay to N de M specific
(c)  Identify the amount to be paid by Government as compen-              compensation to offset the losses of the remaining uneconomic passenger
nation if curtailment or abandonment  of passenger                   trains.  The amount of compensation will be identified by each service by N de N.
trains not carried not as at 3(h).
5.     To eliminate deficits on low density branch lines, N de M s ,all:
(a)  Carry out by December 31, 1973, a cost study of Branch             - The date was extended to August 31, 1975.  So far N de M has
lines with low density traffic.                                     abandc.ned seven uneconomic lines, curtailed services on
another seven lines. Decision for abandonment is pending on
sir lines. Seven mere lines will be studied in 1976 and two
in 1977.
(b)  Taking into account above, take all action to reduce    )          - Action is being taken as indicated against 5(a) above
operating costs.                                             )       although with some delay.
(c)  Recosuend to Government compensation if action at b
above not taken.
6.     N de M should achieve by 1981 a financial position permitting            - This covenant will not be met.  N de M agreed to take all necessary
it to pay all operating espouses service all its debts, and               action to obtain adequate revenues to cover, (i) by 1983, all
ake a contribution of  t least 40% to its invetments                       operating costs and interest charges on debts and (ii) by 1986, all
thereafter..,                                                             operating costs and debt services charges.
eb'uar,i 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MEECO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
I. Bank Financed Procurement Schedule
Tender      Tender
Documents     Opening       Contract    Delivery
(a)  Rails (75,000 tons)    Mar '76      May '76       Aug '76     9,375 tons
every quarter
from Jan-Mar
'77 to Oct-
Dec '78.
(b)  Track Machinery        Mar '76      May '76       Aug '76     75% in Jan-
Jun 177
balance in
Jan to Mar'78
(c)  VHF Telecommmunications   Contract signed in Oct '75.  Deliveries to
Equipment                commence in Dec '75 and to be progressively
completed in 24 months.
(d)  UHF Telecommunications   Contract signed in Dec '75.  Deliveries to
Equipment               commence in Mar '76 and to be progressively
completed in 24 months.
(e) Importe4 Components
for freight cars
1,600 box cars           Mar '76     May '76       Aug '76     400 wagon sets
in each quarter
of 1977
600 box cars          Dec '76      Feb '77       Jun '77     150 wagon sets
in each quarter
of 1978
1,450 gondolas          Mar '76      May '76      Aug '76      350 wagon sets
in each quarter
of 1977
950 gondolas           Dec '76     Feb '77       Jun '77     225 wagon sets
in each quarter
of 1978
700 metal gondolas    Mar '76      May '76       Aug '76     170 wagon sets
in each quarter
of 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Tender        Tender
Documents     Opening       Contract      Delivery
(f)   7,500 axles and      Mar '76       May '77       Aug '76       1,500 axles
15,000 roller                                                 and 3,000
baarings                                                      roller
bearings in
each quarter
Jan to Sep
'77 and Jan
to June '78.
(g)  Machinery for         Mar '76       May '77       Aug '76       50% in 1977
workshops                                                       and 50% in
1978.
II. Work Implementation Schedule (Major items)
Item                         Proiect             Investment
Plan
A. Track and Structure
(i)  New rail works (115 lb rail)         660 km             1,586 km
Morales-Nuevo Laredo              92 km                206 km
Cd Madero-Hipolito               106 km                665 km
Irapueta-F.Pescador              287 km                327 km
E.Distrito-Corcovada              43 km                 43 km
Patti-Yurecuaro                     -                   20 km
Tlaltepaxco-Aragon                                      51 km
Calera-Aragon                                           45 km
Lecheria-Jaltocan                   -                   19 km
San Lorenzo-Oriental               89 km               116 km
Los Berros-Veracruz                43 km                94 km
(ii) Recovered Rail Works
(Second-hand rail)                  400 km             1,000 km
Jimenez-Rosario                     7 km                41 km
Borroteran-Musquis                12 km                 12 km
Encantada-Carreros                                      15 km
Durango-F.Pescador               160 km                170 km
Chicolote-SL Potosi               40 km                108 km
San Bartolo-Rio Verde             40 km                 40 km
Penjamo-Ajuno                     60 km               134 km
Emiliano Zapata-Mextitlan            -                  62 km
Puebla-Tome Uin                   70 km                160 km
S.Lorenzo-Los Arcos                  -                  50 km
Hibueras-Minatitlan                11 km                11 km
Ixtepec-Tapachula                    -                 149 km
Tres Valles-S.Cristobal              -                  48 km



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Item                        Proiect              Investment
Plan
A. Track and Structure
(iii) Deferred Maintenance
Sleepers                       1,200,000                 3,000,000
Ballast                           700,000                1,400,000
cu meters                cu meters
(iv)  Strengthening of Bridges                265                      557
(v)  Track Machinery                          53%                     100%
(vi)  Miscellaneous Work                       72%                     100%
B. Construction Works
Earthworks, drainage, stations,
buildings, depots, offices,
housing                                  30%                     100%
C. signals, Telecommunications and
Electrical Works
(i)  VHF                                 Complete works
(ii)  UHF                                 Complete works
(iii)  CTC installation                    Teotihuacan-Veracruz   SL Potosi-
(409 km)         Carueros
(761 km)
(iv)  Electrical and telecommunication
works at station, stores
yards, etc.                             52%                     100%
(v)  Advance consist and yards                80%                      20%
D. Rolling Stock Motive Power, etc.
(i) Purchase of Freight Cars
Box                                 2,272                    6,905
Gondolas general                    2,587                    5,903
Gondolas mineral                      700                    1,300
Flat cars                             210                      469
Piggy back flatcars                    50                      150
Tanks                                  -                       300



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Item                        Project                Investment
Plan
D. Rolling Stock Motive Power etc.
(ii) Imported components for 5,300
cars to be delivered in 1977a78    100%
(iii) Purchase of 7,500 axles and
159Q0 roller bearings              100%
(iv) Rolling stock for track
maintenance
Tippler gondolas                     35                      160
Ballast gondolas                     76                       76
(v) Provision of locomotives
2000  hp                            112                       240
2250  hp                              _                        30
3000  hp                             12                        12
3600  hp                              -                        17
124                       9
(vi)  Provision of Passenger 2oaches        176                      200
Mail vans                             30                       30
Caboose vans                         100                      274
(vii)  Provision of various items of          42%                     100%
workshop machinery and
equipment
E. Technical Assistance
Foreign (car control, telecommunication,
etc.)                                       59%                    100%
Local (Civil works)                          40%                    100%
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
February 1976



ANNEX 9
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Track Maintenance Machinery - 1976-1977
Item                      Units
Imported
Bulldozer                              7
Dragline excavator                     4
Front loader/excavator                 2
Grader                                 2
Air compressor                         4
Rail mounted piledriver                3
Pneumatic tired crane                  2
Ballast multi-tamper                  15
Ballast regulator                     12
Track liner                           10
Ballast compactor                      4
Ballast hand tamper unit              20
Side drain grader                      2
Sleeper drilling and incising
machine                             14
Rail cutter (small)                   40
Rail grinder                           4
Electric welding units                 4
Motor operated pump                    4
Tractor/scraper                        1
Local
Motor trollies                        10
February 1976



ANNEX 10
MEXIC0
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Proposed Telecommunications Network - N de M
N de M's telecommunications project consists of the following parts:
1.   UHF Radio Transmission System
18 systems of 60-channel and 664 systems of 24-channel radio
equipment for 325 stations equipped with multiplexing equip-
ment for 1,323 telephone and 549 telegraph channels; 278 one-
channel systems for 139 stations.
2.   VHF Radio System
1,506 locomotive and maintenance track radio stations
522 radio sets for cabooses
500 hand-held radio sets for yard operations
211 base stations for dispatch and yard operation with 23
repeaters
138 base stations for PBX operation
3.   Switching System
16 transit telephone exchanges with a total of 1,036 trunk
circuits
36 local telephone exchanges with a total capacity of 2,320
exchange lines equipped for 1,650) subscribers
automatic telegraph exchange with a final capacity of 480
subscriber, equipped for 300 subscribers and acquisitions
of 150 teleprinters
42 dispatching consoles for 35 selective calling telephone
systems for about 550 staticins
43 4-channel magnetic tape recorders for the dispatchers
4.   Services
Propagation measurements, installation of the network,
maintenance for 6 months, training and consultants' services.
5.   N de M's Part (Local Expenditure)
Buildings, towers, power supplier, roads, supervision.
Custom duties, inland transport and insurance.
6.   The number of systems, stations, radios, teleprinters and other
equipment indicated above are approximate and are subject to adjust-
ment after field survey and pilot project, within the overall cost
figures foreseen in the project.
August 1975



ANNEX 11
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Workshop Machinery
Item      Description                         Units
1        Centrifugal Fuel Systems               15
2        Soft Water De-Mineralizing Plants       4
3        Loading and Lifting Trucks             11
4        Shear Press                             1
5        Pipe Bending Machines                   6
6        Punching Machines                       5
7        Solid Jet Painting Systems              6
8        Welding Machines                       25
9        Air Compressors                         6
10        Traveling Cranes                        4
11        Parallel Lathes                         1
February 1976



ANNEX 12
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Consultants' Services
I.   Missouri Pacific Railway (MOPAC, USA)
(For YATS car control system)
(a)  275 consultant days for administration of
YATS project
(b)  270 consultant days for field installation
of system                                          US$210,250.00
(c)  245 consultant days for programming
(d)  Travel and stay in Mexico
Total
II.   TOPS-On-Line Service Inc. (USA)
(For Advance Consist System, Car Vigilance
and Telecommunications)
(a)  Supervision of project
(b)  Application programs
(c)  System programs
(d)  Telecommunications                                  us$425,646.00
(e) Computer control
(f) Field installation
(g) Travel and stay expenses
(h) Rental for computers and other equipment
(i)  Secretarial services
Total          US$635,896.oo
December 1975



ANNEX 13
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
US$ (Million)
Quarter     Cumulative
I.   Fiscal Year 1975-1976
To March 31, 1976                 -           -
To June 30, 1976                 4.1         4.1
II. Fiscal Year 1976-1977
To September 30, 1976            4.6         8.7
To December 31, 1976             4.7         13.4
To March 31, 1977               14.2        27.6
To June 30, 1977                14.2        41.8
III. Fiscal Year 1977-1978
To September 30, 1977           12.5        54.3
To December 31, 1977            10.7         65.0
To March 31, 1978               10.6        75.0
To June 30, 1978                 9.0        84.6
IV. Fiscal Year 1978-1979
To September 30, 1978            7.7        92.3
To December 31, 1978             7.7        100.0
Source:   N de M and Mission Estimates
February 1976



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Jusitification
A.   General Methodology
1.        For evaluation purposes, the Investment Plan was split into seven
elements and each was dealt with separately. Each Plan element caters for a
certain distinguishable share of cosl:s and benefits. Six elements were
evaluated using regular cost benefit analysis method. The seventh element,
totaling 10.6% of the Investment Plan and comprising miscellaneous investments,
was not evaluated.
B.   Track Renewal
2.        In the case of track renewal, the Plan contemplates the purchase and
installation of new rail of 115 lb/ya on some 1,600 km of main line. In
addition, 1,000 km of second-hand rail. set free because of the installation
of new rail, will replace wornout rail.   In both cases, the improvements
include the replacement of rails, ties and switches, after ballasting
and reshaping of the embankments. Total costs, excluding price contingencies,
were allocated as follows:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1975   1976    1977   1978    1979
Track Renewal - New Rail           299.0  303.3   237.3  248.7   280.0
Track Renewal - Used Rail           68.0   31.0    25.4   26.4    24.2
Total                        367.0  334.3   262.7  275.1   304.2
3.        Since the proposed investment will substantially improve the number
of deteriorated rail lines, maintenance costs with the improvements will be
less than without the improvements for the same levels of traffic. Moreover,
along these lines there are already several zones with speed restrictions,
some of them very severe, due to the poor state of the track. If the track
is not rehabilitated, more speed restrictions will appear, and overall travel
speed on these lines will continue to decrease. Accordingly, benefits, con-
sisting of savings in track maintenance costs and of better equipment utili-
zation by avoiding abnormally low speeds, were estimated for each one of the
nine lines being improved, and discounted against the associated capital
costs.   Individual rates of return were calculated for each one of the nine
lines and for the entire group.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
4.        Table 1 of this Annex shows the estimated per km track maintenance
costs for each and the benefits derived.
5.        Table 2 of this Annex presents the method used to calculate operating
benefits originated from avoiding lower speed limits. The basic underlying
assumption is that a higher train turnaround will enable a better usage of the
running equipment. The amortization cost per hour of an average train is
calculated on a per gross ton basis. The increase in speed limit reduces the
time required to cover a certain distance, and, as a consequence, the total
amortization cost for such a distance decreases correspondingly. Working costs
are conservatively assumed not to change. A table was calculated for different
speed ranges.
6.        Other assumptions were also made:
(a) Traffic is the same for the with and without cases;
(b) for calculating rates of return of individual lines, main-
tenance savings are constant over the Plan period;
(c) for the overall rate of return, only one year (1980)
maintenance savings were considered;
(d) for the calculation of benefits derived from the speed
limit increase, the project traffic forecast was used.
7.        Based on the above estimates of capital requirements and benefits
obtained, this Plan element is expected to have an overall rate of return of
14%, with individual rates of return fluctuating from 12% to 23%, which is
acceptable.
C.   Track Rehabilitation
8.        This Plan element includes the improved maintenance of 14,300 km of
track and the purchase of related equipment. Ballasting and replacement of
ties and switches are included. The total required investment was allocated
as follows:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Sleepers, ballast, ties and switches   89.4   108.9   120.5   117.5   117.5
Equipment                                23.1    33.1    77.4    46.3    27.9
Total                                   112.5   142.0   197.9   163.8   145.4
Regular maintenance costs are not included as part of the Plan.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
9.        Project benefits consist, principally, of savings derived from an
increase in the useful life of sleepers and rail and from a reduction in track
maintenance costs derived from the use of more efficient and modern equipment.
A portion of the new equipment will replace obsolete equipment; the rest
will improve on present maintenance practices. The existing labor intensive
maintenance will continue in the system with the exception of the heavily
trafficked trunk lines, where existing labor will be supplemented by efficient
equipment which will allow proper track maintenance without unduly interrupting
train schedules and services. Table 3 of this Annex shows the benefits
calculation. Benefits from the increased useful life of sleepers and rails
are calculated as avoided replacement costs per year. Savings derived from
new maintenance equipment are determined by comparing the maintenance costs
that would accrue with the project with those which would occur without the
project. A shadow price of 50% has been used for the unskilled labor employed
in maintenance.
10.       Based on the above estimates of capital and maintenance costs and
benefits, this Plan element is expected to have an economic return of 21%.
D.   Realignments and Bridges
11.       This element of the Plan provides for the realignment of several
minor sections of main lines and the construction of a number of bridges,
culverts and retaining walls. The purpose of realignments is to decrease
train operating costs by reducing the present steep grades in predetermined
sections. New bridges and accessory works will increase the capacity of the
main lines to carry heavier cars and locomotives, also reducing operating
costs. For this Plan element, the total required investment was allocated
as follows:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1975    1976    1977      1978    1979
Realignments            2.2    17.0    37.0       26.6      -
Bridges and others    26.8    44.0    41.0        44.5    44.4
Total             29.0    61.0    78.0       71.1    44.4
12.       The realignment benefits consist principally of savings derived from
a decrease in the cost of moving existing cargo over a given distance, as a
result of a reduced grade. Bridges and other civil works create benefits in
working cost reduction when using heavier equipment. Realignment benefits were
calculated for each one of the three lines where realignments are planned, and
for the three combined. The methodology is shown in Table 4.
13.       Table 4 of this Annex also presents the methodology used for cal-
culating benefits derived from the use of heavier cars and locomotives. It
is assumed that, starting in 1984, and for the considered project life, 60% of
the traffic will be moved by heavy cars and locomotives.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
14.       Based on the above assumptions and estimates, this project element
has a global rate of return of 14%, with economic returns varying from 12%
to 26% for the various realignment projects. The economic rate of return
for the bridges and others is 13%.
E.   Locomotives and Rolling Stock
15.       The 1975-1979 Investment Plan includes, as its most important item
(approximately 60% of total Plan), the acquisition of rolling stock and motive
power. Total costs, excluding price contingencies, were allocated as follows:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1975     1976    1977    1978    1979
Traction equipment    335.3    451.2   150.5   456.3    68.0
Rolling Stock        1,531.0    770.3 1,374.3 1,187.1   534.4
Total           1,866.3  1,221.5 1,524.8 1,643.4   602.4
16.       Project benefits consist principally of savings derived from rail
transportation as compared with road transport. Without the proposed invest-
ment, it is assumed that part of the forecast traffic will be diverted to
trucks due to lack of capacity in the railroads. It is considered, from an
SOP study, that truck operating costs under normal conditions are Mex$ .39/ton-
km as compared with rail transport estimated at Mex$ .11/ton-km.  To calculate
benefits, savings of Mex$ .28/ton-km are applied to the traffic figures that
would have to be diverted to road transportation without the investment.
Traffic and capacity figures used are derived from Tables 1 and 7 of the main
report, and the calculation of benefits is described in Table 5 of this Annex.
17.       The savings in transport costs from this Plan element yield an
economic rate of return of 16%.
F.   Shop Equipment
18.       In the case of shop equipment, the Plan contemplates continuing the
ongoing program of rationalization, modernization and expansion of shop instal-
lations. The purpose of the investment in this Plan element is to increase
the efficiency of the maintenance and repair works.  Costs were allocated as
follows:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Shop equipment         20.3      7.0    48.7    42.5    14.4
Shop improvements      33.1    52.4   147.6   111.4    85.2
Total             53.4    59.4   196.3   153.9    99.6



ANNEX 14
Page 5
19.       The benefits of this Plan element consist principally of avoiding a
decrease in the availability of motive power and rolling stock. In 1974, on
the average, 20% of the motive power and 7% of the rolling stock were out of
service. Those percentages of down equipment would increase if the recon-
struction and rationalization program of N de M's shops is not carried out and
new equipment does not replace the wornout equipment being used today.
20.       Benefits were calculated on the conservative assumption that, without
this Plan element, there would be a clecrease in the availability of rolling
stock and motive power of 3% and 2%, respectively, starting in 1977. Using
the running equipment needs forecast (see Tables 5 and 6) and using the
improved availability percentages, a determination was made of the number of
additional locomotives and cars that would have to be purchased each year to
substitute for the equipment out of service. For quantifying the benefits, it
was assumed that the average locomotive costs were Mex$ 5 million and the aver-
age car Mex$ .3 million. From 1980 on, it was further assumed that savings
remain constant.
21.       Based on the above, this project element is expected to have a
rate of return of 22%.
G.   Telecommunications and Signalling
22.       This Plan element was divided into three different components for
its economic evaluation.
(i) VIF and UHF communications network;
(ii) CTC signalling; and
(iii) Car control system.
(i) VHF and UHF Communications Network
23.       This package includes the provision of VHF and UHF equipment to in-
crease train turnover by decreasing terminal delays and improving yard opera-
tions and train speeds. Total costs of Mex$ 391.3 million were allocated as
follows:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1975       1976        1977
VHF/UHF System           62.3      304.0        25.3
24.       The benefits consist principally of improved car utilization.  A
second area of potential benefit, improved locomotive utilization, was not
quantAifiod becauge of the difficulty of prodicinp rallisEtic estimate . Thle
benefits were calculated for 1978 as explained in Table 6 to this Annex and
thereafter estimated as a direct function of the forecast traffic growth. The
economic results were combined with those of car control (para. (iii) below),
and a resulting rate of return of 25% was obtained.



ANNEX 14
Page 6
(ii) CTC Signalling
25.       CTC signalling includes the acquisition and irnstallation of a cen-
tralized traffic control system on four high density lines; costs are as
follows:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1976    1977    1978    1979
CTC                   10.9    83.0    61.0       1.1
26.       CTC benefits are, principally, savings derived from avoiding delays
along the way, mainly delays in sidings at stations. Only train amortization
costs per hour were taken into account. Benefits were calculated independently
for each line for a base year and projected as a function of expected traffic
growth, until the capacity of the lines (32 trains/day) is saturated. From
that year on, the benefits are kept constant.
27.       The rate of return obtained was 35% for the four cases combined.
(iii)  Car Control System
28.       This package includes the implementation of two operating control
systems:  (i) an Advance Consist and Car Monitoring and associated PICL
(Permanent Inventory of Car Location) Systems; and (ii) a YATS Yard Control
System at the Valle de Mexico Terminal. The allocated costs are:
(1975 - Mex$ Million)
1976    1977    1978    1979
Car control systems        25.5    13.0      8.0    10.8
29.       Benefits consisting primarily of increased car utilization were
estimated for one year (1979) and projected as a function of the traffic
forecast (Table 6), in conjunction with those for case (i) above. The
estimated rate of return was 25%.
H.   Overall Economic Evaluation
30.       Based on the benefits calculated for the six Plan elements discussed
above, the rate of return for 89% of the five-year Investment Plan (Mex$ 11.6
billion) is 16%, which is satisfactory (Table 7 of this Annex).
31.       A sensitivity analysis was performed for each benefit-generating
Plan element and for the overall Plan. Cost overruns of 15% will not reduce
the rate of return of any of the elements considered below 10%. For the
overall Investment Plan, an increase of 15% in costs will reduce its rate
of return to 11%, which is acceptable (Table 7).
February 1976



ANNEX 14
Table 1
MEXICO
THIRD RAIIMAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Track Renewal
Calculation of Mantenance Savings per Year
(1975, Mex$ 000)
Restored Track
Present Maintenance      New Track Maintlyance      maintenance29osts
Cost per Km              Cost per Km_- per W2
Mountainous               Mountainous               Mountainous
Flat Terrain   Terrain   Flat Terrain   Terrain   Flat Terrain   Terrain
Sleepers            12.5          16.7                                   10.0         12.5
Tracks              22.3          29.7           -            -          (14.8>/    (17.8A1
Ballast              3.6           4.8          3.6          4.8           3.6         4.8
Miscellaneous         4.5          4.5           4.1         4.1           2.8         2.9
Total Materials     42.9          55.7           7.7         8.9          16.4        20.2
(31.2A/    (38.0)1
Labor               40.8          40.8         40.8         40.8          27.3        27.2
Total               83.7 (a)      96.5 (b)     48.5 (c)    49.7 td)      43.7 (e)    47.4 (f)
(5.5/'(g) (65.2))9/(h)
Maintenance Savings per Year
New Track;        [(a)-(c)] x 1187 + [(b)-(cL)] x 399 - Max  60,455,600
Restored Track;   Years one to twelve:  [(a)-(e)J x 912 + L(b)-(fr)  x 486 - Mex$ 60,342,600
Yeerstwelve to twenty:  [(a)-(g)] x 912 + [(b)-(h)] x 486 = MeX* 38,194,200
1/ Of the 1583 km   where track is to be renewed, 1187 km   are on flat to rolling
terrain and the remaining 399 km   on mountainous terrain.
2/  Of the 1398 km   where second-hand rail is to be placed, 912 km,  are on flat terrain
and 486 km   on mountainous terrain.
3/ It is assumed that rail would be replaced in the restored track after the 13th year
(the second-hand rail being placed woulcd have a remaining average economic life of
12 years). Consequently, the figures in parentheses would apply between the 13th and
20th year of the economic analysis.
Source: Evaluacion Economica, April 1975 - N de M.



ANNEX 14
Table 2
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Calculation of Train Operating Benefits
Basic Assumptions:
Average train characteristics:
1.77 locomotives of 2000 HP
1895 Gross tons
40 Freight cars
20 Years useful life
Bquipment cost per gross ton-hour for the average train:
Nex* .89/ton-hour
Based on the above cost figure, the following savirgsper gross ton-km
were determined as a function of speed.
Change in speed limit (km/hr):
Savings in
From                    To                    Mex$/Gross ton-km
20        -             30                          .0148
20        -             410                         .0223
30        -            35                           .0042
30        -            40                          .0074
30        -            45                          .0099
30        -            5o                           .0119
40        -            45                           .0025
40        -            50                           .0045
50        -            55                           .0016
N de M established the normal speed under acceptable running conditions
of the track, given its geometric characteristics) and compared it with the existing
and expected low speeds for each one of the lines to be improved. In this way,
individual benefits for each of the lines were established. On the average, the
speed increase would amount to 10 kph (between 40 kph and 50 kph), with a unit
saving of Mex$ 0.0045 per gros8-ton-kn.
Source: Evaluacion Econ6mica; April 1975, N de M.



ANNEX lh
Table 3
MBEXIC0
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Track F'ehabilitation
Benefits Calculation
a) From increased useful life of sletepers and rails:
Useful Life in Years
Without        With
Project      Project
Sleepers                        18           25
Rails                           25            40
Per year
Units                 Unit      Reduction in       Savings
Per  Km       Km    Cost(Mex$) replacements   (Million Mex$)
(1)       . (2)    _ (3)           (4)       (5)=(1)x(2)2(3)x(4)
Sleepers   2000        14,300      125       1/8 - 1/25         55.6
Rails         90 (ton) 14,300    4ooo       1/25 - 1/40         77.2
Yearly Savings:                                            132.8
b) From maintenance cost savings (Mi:Llion Mex$):
Maintenance Costs
Without                  With
Year          the P/                  the ProjectZ/
1975             7.5                      7.2                  0.3
1976             24.7                    15.2                  9.5
1977            39.3                     24.6                 14.7
1978            52.1                     27.3                 24.8
1979            57.5                     33.3                24.2
1980             57.5                    33.3                24.2
1981            55.8                     32.2                23.6
1982            55.8                     32.2                23.6
1983             55.8                    31.9                 23.9
1984             55.4                    31.9                23.5
1985            52.2                     31.0                21.2
1986             45.5                    28.3                 17.2
1987             41.3                    26.5                 14.8
1988            38.2                     25.0                 13.2
1/ Shadow price of labor used, 50%
2/ The economic life of equipment used in these calculations varies between
five years and twelve years, depending on the equipment.
Source:  Evaluaci6n Econ6mica; April 1975.  N de M amended by Bank staff.



ANNEX 14
Table 4
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Realignment and Bridges
A.  Calculation of Savings from the Proposed  /eali.Km      V
(a)  Line V. - The realignment consists of lengthening the present rail
line fr.T 116 ke   to 120 ks, with a resulting reductih n in grade
fran 1.5% to 1.0%. The unit benefits are:
116 km x mex$ 0.0120/gross-ton-km - Mex$ 1.392/ton-km
120 km x Mex$ 0.0078/gross-ton-km - Mex$ 0.936/ton-km
Savings          -       Mex$ 0.456/ton-km
(b) Line Ferrocarril Hexicano. The existing grade of 1.6% will be reduced
to 1.0%, with an increase in length of 3 km.  The unit benefits are:
120 km x Mex$ 0.0128/ gross-ton-km - Max$ 1.536C/ton-km
123 km x Mex$ 0.0078/gross-ton-km - Mex$ 0.959I/ton-km
Savings          -       Mex$ 0.5766/ton-km
(c) Line in Distrito de Cardel - The existing line would have a reduction
in grade from 3.2% to 2.5% without a change in length. Consequently,
the unit savings are:
132 km x (Mex$ 0.0294vgross-ton-km - Mex$ 0.023/gross-ton-km) =
Savings           -       Mex$ 1.1088/ton-km
Savings per gross ton-km were applied to 1974 traffic, assuming a traffic
growth per line of 3.5% p.a. for lines (a) and (b) above,and 7.8% for
line (c), based on the same traffic projections and commodity studies
discussed and agreed with the Bank.
B. Calculation of Savings from the Use of Heavy Traction Equipment - (Mex$)
Without Proposed With Proposed
Investment       Investment
Locomotive power                 2000 HP           3600 HP
Cost                             4.9 million       5.4  million
Cost per hour                    252               278
Labor costs per hour             207               207
Cost per gross ton-km           .0139  (1)        .006  (2)
Savings per gross ton-km        (1) - (2) = .006
Savings per gross ton-km  were applied to 60% of the relevant lines fore-
cast   traffic.
1/ In all cases it was assumed that, with and without the project, the average
speed of the trains would be maintained at 40 kph.
Source: N de M, modified by Bank staff.



ANNEX 14
Table 5
MEXICO
THIRI RAILWAY PROJECT
Locomotives and Rolling Stock
Calculation of Benefits
A. Road Costs
Average road operating costs were obtained from a study called
"Costo de Recorrido de los Vehiculos" prepared by the Engineering Institute
of the Universidad Autonoma de Mexico and the SOP in December 1971. The
study was based on US experience adapted to the road and vehicle charac-
teristics of Mexico. The average vehicle distribution among the various
types of trucks and average load factors are based on the result of origin
and destination studies carried out recently by the SOP. The latter also
updated the vehicle operating costs to March 1975. The Bank examined all
the above-mentioned studies and analyses and is satisfied of their validity.
The resulting economic operat:Lng costs are as follows:
More than
2 Axle       2 Axle
type of Truck
Average capacity, tons                6.7           18
Speed of minimum cost, kph          60              50
Qperating Costs, //km
Fuel                                22.9            54.2
Depreciation                        30.8            41.
Vehicle maintenance and repairs    26.7             38.6
Tires                                3.5             3.9
Oil                                   1.3            2.0
Crew                                58.0            69.0
Insurance                            5.8            19.1
Road Maintenance                      2.3            5.2
Total, 4/km                         151.3          233.4
Average load per truck-, tons         3.3            9.2
4/net ton-km                        45.2            25.4
Distribution of truck fLeet, %       71             29
Weighted average, 4/ton--km                39.5
B. Rail Costs
In 1974, the long-run variable costs due to freight traffic amounted
to Mex$ 2,808 million; dividing this into 24.5 million tons of cargo trans-
ported in that year, results a unit cost of .411.5 per ton-km.
C. Benefits
Total yearly savings per ton-km would then amount to Mex$ 0.395-Mex$ 0.115
or Mex* 0.280/ton-gross-knm.
I/ Based on actual origin and destination studies on trunk federal highways.
Source: SOP and N de M, modified by Bank staff.



AWEX1h.
Table 6, Page I
MEXICO
THIRD RAIIMAY PRDJECT
VHF, UHF and Car Control Systems
A. VHF and UHF
1.        The benefits attributable to improved communications are considerable,
particularly regarding yard service, road maintenance and safety. The US
consultants TOPS- On-Line, on September 5, 1973, prepared a,n evaluation of the
VHF system which was discussed and accepted by the Bank./. This report quanti-
fied only some of the expected benefits. Based on a detailed analysis of
accident reports during 1970 and 1971, it was established that not less than
Mex$ 4.8 million worth of damaged equipment, annually, could be avoided through
modern and efficient communications. Regarding car delays in terminals, a
study was made of the volume of cars and average delays in the 11 major
terminals of N de M. It was conservatively estimated that half a day could be
saved, on the average, because of the VHF system. Consequently, the benefits
due to VHF are:
LMex$ Million)
Avoiding damage to cars and locomotives                   4.8
Avoiding car delays in terminal -
1,590,000 (annual cars in terminal.SY)
x 0.5 (day/car) x 46.8- (Mex$/day)                   37.2
Annual savings                                       42.0
2.        The installation of UHF will reduce car delays on line and reduce
crew overtime. This system effect wa )stimated to produce savings in
addition to other improvements on the lines due to the 1975_1979 Investment
Plan, of Mex$ 16.2 per year. Consequently, the total savings due to VHF and
UHF amount to Mex$ 8-.2 million.
B. Car Control Systems
(a) Assuning a cost per car of Mex$ 2.00 per hour, based on car-hire rates,
the main benefits of the Advanced Consist and Car Monitoring System
(PICL) are:
Annual Savings
(Mex$ - Million)
1. Avoiding delays due to yard advance planning            3.5
Assumptions:  Advance Consist locations: 4Q,
Total car arrivals/day: 9500J/
Portion contained in
Advance Consist:      50%
Average Savings/car:    1 hour
1/ This element of the project was partly financed under the Second Railway
loan.
2/ Average of arrivals and departures.
:/ Based on April 1975 wheel movements data.-,
Source: TOPS-on-line, Ninth Progress Report (June-Sept.'73); Economic
Justification of Advanced Consist and YATS OCS Systems (July
18, 1975). Modified by Bank staff.



ANNE  IL
Table 6, Page 2
Annual Savings
(Mext - Million)
2. Avoiding delays in preparing
conductor's wheel report                              3.5
Assumptions: Locations: l.0
Total car departures/day: 9,500
Average savirgs/car: 0.5 hour
3. Increased yard control through PICL (Per-
manent Inventory of Car Location)                      2.6
Assumptions: Locations: 10
Cars handled/day: 3,500
Average savings/car: 1 hour
4.  Improved car distribution                              8.8
Assumptions: Total cars on line: 50,000
Reduction of carson line: 1%
Sub-total                                     Mex$ 18.4
(b) The savings due to the YATS yard control system are due to improved
car utilization resulting from be,'ter control of cars in Valle de
Mexico yard and the satellite yards. It is conservatively estimated
that one hour per car handled would be saved. This results in
annual savings of:
3860 (cars handled/day) x 2 (Mex$/car-day) x 365 kday/year)=
Sub-total          Mex$ 2.8 million
Total Savings:    18.4 + 2.8 =  Mex$ 21.2 million



Table 7
MEXCO
THLFD RUAIUY PROJECT
Econmric Evaluation Results of N de M1a 1975-1979 Investment Plan
Investment Evaluated                lconomic Baturt2/'  C    i       s i      ( L
~Hfiiionl 1975 M*X~)                     Based on 
Investment Plan                         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   Total Best  ntibates (,)        by l            -by 15
1. Track Renewal                        367.0  334.3  262.7   275.1  304.2  t,543.3             14               12              15
2. Track Rehabilitation                 112.5  1)42.0   197.9  163.8  145.4   761.6             21               19              22
3. Realignments and Bridges              29.0    61.0    78.0    71.1   44.4    283.5           14               12              15
4. Locomotives and Rolling Stock      1,866.3 1,221.5 1,524.8 1,643.4  602.4  6,858.4           16               14              17
5. Shop Equipment                        53.4    59.-4   196.3  153.9   99 6  562.6             22               20              24
6. Teleccmunicationa and
Car Control
(a)  Telecca                     62.3   304.0    25.3    -       -       39t.6         25                22             27
(b)  OTC                         -       10.9    83.0    61.0    1.1    156.0          35                31             38
(a)  Car Control                -        25.5    13.0     8.0   10.8      57.3         25                22             27
17               15              20
1/ Best estimates were based, in all cases on the following assumptions:
(i)  Annual traffic growth rate, 7.8S (1975-1980), 5% (1980-1998);
(ii)  Base year for analysis, 1975;
(iil)  Economic iife of project, 20 years (1978-1998)
(iv)  No salvage value after 20 years;
(v) First year benefits, as follows:
Year of First Benefits  Benefits in First Year
(Million HexT-
1. Track Renewal                          1976                    1143.6
2. Track Rehabilitation                   1978                    220.7
3. Realignments and Bridges               1976                     10.5
4. Locomotives and Rolling Stock          1975                    201.3
5.  Shop Equipment                        1977                     68.1
6. Telecommunications and
Operations Control
(a)  Telecom                   1978                     58.2
(b)  C.T.C.                      a'                      a/
(o)  Car Control                1979                    79.7
a/  The analysis was made individually for each of the fokr lines where CTC is to be lnstalled, but table above shows
the aggregate results for the program. The individual benefits were:
Yea                 (mi{i1on MesS)
Teotihuacin-Oriental               1976                    4.4
Oriental-Veracruz                  1977                   35.2
San Luis Potosi-C4rneros           1978                    4.8
Irapuato-Guadalajara               1978                    0.3
Source: N de M and Bank Estimates
February 1976



ANNEX 15
Page 1
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Making Forecast Income Account
1.   Traffic
Increases in freight traffic are taken from N de M forecasts, revised
by the mission. Since the composiLtion of traffic is showing variations during
1975 to 1979, the revenue forecast is calculated for various commodities sepa-
rately. For passenger service, the traffic is shown separately for first
class and second class. Detailed calculations are shown in Tables 1 and 2 of
this Annex.
2.   Tariffs and Revenues
Freight
N de M increased freight and express rates by an overall weighted
average of 44% and 40%, respectively, effective January 1, 1975. Following
this, a new book of uniform tariff rates was prepared by the traffic depart-
ment of N de M.  Since there are 20 class rates, the new rates for each commo-
dity depend on the new classification and average haul. Therefore, for each
commodity, an average haul and a class rate were established. From this rate,
the 12.2% Government tax was deducted and shown separately. The resulting
rate per ton-km was multiplied by the traffic forecast for that particular
commodity to arrive at total revenue (Table 1 of this Annex).
It was assumed that, in January 1977, the freight rates will be
increased by 10Z, in real terms. It is also assumed that N de M and the Gov-
ernment will increase tariffs periodically in order to offset cost increases
due to inflation.
Passenger
The passenger fares were increased by 22% on the average, effective
February 1, 1975. The new fares are as follows:
Sleepers                             14 centavos/pass-km
First class coach               -    11 centavos/pass-km
Second class                    =     7 centavos/pass-km
From the above fares, the 19% Government tax was deducted and shown
separately. The resulting fares per pass-km were-multiplied by the traffic
forecast to arrive at the total revenue (Table 2 of this Annex).



ANNEX 15
Page 2
In addition, it was assumed that N de M and the Government would
increase fares and curtail or reduce uneconomic/passenger trains to save costs
and pay specific compensation for continued unprofitable services. The total
estimated benefits amounted to Mex$ 485 million for 1976 and Mex$ 480 million for
1977 to 1979,for which the details are as follows:
1976     1977     1978      1979
-e----- Mx$ Million)-------
Passenger fare increases                    25       40        40       55
Government compensation for
unprofitable services /1                 400      350       320      265
Savings from uneconomic
passenger trains                          60       90       120      160
Total benefits                             485      480       480      480
/1   When a service is uneconomic but must be retained for social reasons,
the Government should reimburse the railways for the loss which would
be the difference between avoidable costs and revenues.
3.   Operating Expenses
A cost analysis was conducted for passenger and freight services
based on 1974 financial and operating data. This analysis distributed total
costs between fixed and variable. Based on traffic forecast, operating sta-
tistics were calculated, allowing for a reasonable improvement in operating
performance, e.g., turnaround time, car-km per day, average wagon load,
average gross train-load and average number of cars per train. The variable
costs were projected in proportion to traffic growth, and fixed costs were
unchanged. These costs were estimated in terms of 1975 Mexican pesos, which
were converted from 1974 peso value by applying the average wages and material
prices prevailing in October 1975.
The projection of costs is based on the assumption that the labor
force will not change substantially from its present level during 1975-1979.
For comparison, the actual movements in wages and productivity in the years
1970-1974 and the corresponding movements projected for 1976-1980 are as
follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Percentage
1970-1974           1976-1980
(est)
(i) Increase in wages at current
prices                              65%                   50%
(ii) Increase in cost, of living
index for workers                   66%                  49%
(iii) Increase/decrease in real
wages (i) + (ii)                 0.99                   1.02
(iv) Increase in productivity
per man employed (pass-km +
net ton-km) . total permanent
staff of N de M                   30%                     30%
February 1976



MEXICo
TIFmLD RAILWAY PRCd8LT
Freight Revenue Forecast 1975-1979
(in Me$ million) __
1975 Rates                                      R E V E N U E S RK_
Average              Freight             per ton-ku               1975           1976           1977           1978           '975                 _.,7,_19.
8aul  /              Class              (Ceotavo,)
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTS
Cattle feed (Porrajes)                                         550                   10                     14.7               51.7           52.6           55.7           59.1            f2.5 t,1 7
Beans (Frijol)                                                 725                   13                     11.3               24.3           24.3           25.1            25.8           26.6                   1 6.C
Corn (Mai.)                                                    575                   15                     11.6              129.9          135.7          141.1          146.7           1537O
Sorghon Seeds (Snoillas de Sorgo)                              750                   15                     10.6              127.2          137.4          142.9          148.6          35SiS                   '1-.6
Oil seeds (S_illas de oleagi.nsas)                             525                   10                     14.9               18.8           20.3           21.0           21.9            22.8                   :)4.8
,Iheat (Trigo)                                                 650                   10                     13.9              170.8          177.5          186.4          195.7           205.4                   735.8
Miscel laeo..  (Otroc)                                                                                      16.2              111.9          115.3          118.7          122.3           120.0                ___4___
Sub-Tota;                                                                                                                634.6           663.1          690.8          720.1          751.6
MINERAL FRODUCTS
Coal (Carbon ainer.l)                                          11                   l9                     18.2               48.8           51.0           61.9           68.4            71.2                  301.3
Coke (Coke)                                                    400                   13                     14.3               78.8           91,4           93.0          106.8           108.1                  478.1
Flourapar (Fluorite)                                           700                   17                      9.8               76.2           76.2           79.3            82.4           85.i                  399.9
Iron ore (Mineral de hi rro)                                   775                   20                      8.0              301.4          465.8          480.0          683.1           700.4                2.,630.7
Oth-r ein. nd Conc.(Otros Minerale- y Co,c.)                   800                   13                     11.6              104.5          107.6          110.9          114.3           117.7                  555 7
Iron Bars (Hitrro en barrae)                                   725                   10                     13.5               97.3          107.8          127.2          130.'          135.5 .398.
Lead gats (PSslse n  barren)                                   900                    9                     13.8               38.0           28.8           29.7           30.5            31.5                  148.5
B.ryte (8arita)                                                825                   17                      9.6               32.7           32.7           34.7           36.3            38.2                  I7&.6
Mlnscelleneona (Otroc'                                                                                       9.8               61.0162.9                     64.6           66.5            68926223.2
Sub-Total                                                                                                                828.7         1.024.2        1,081.3        1,316.C        1.356.6                  .609.E
PETROLIYM PRODUCTS
Asphalt (sfalto)                                               700                   11                     13.1               21.1           22.9           24.6           26.6           28.7                   1A3.9
Diesel (Diesel)                                                300                    6                     22.0               50.3           55.4           57.6           59.8            62.3                  285,.
Gasoline (Casoline)                                            250                    9                     23.4               32.3           32.8           33.7           34.4            35.1                   *, 3
Gas (Ga. conbustible)                                       1,250                     6                     16.0               48.6           48.6           48.6           48.6           48.6                   243.0
Yuel oil  fC(mab.tolao)                                        500                   13                     13.9              222.5          205.6          215.0          224.9          235.2                 ;103.2
miecellfteous (Otros)                                                                                       22.3               20.7           21.4            22.1          2.2.7           23.4                 Z10.3
Sob-Total                                                                                                                395.5           386.7          401.6          417.(0         433.3                 2,034.1
INORGAIIC PRODUCTS
Send (Arena Silica)                                            575                   10                     14.6               47.5           96.8           61.5           66.3           71.5                   303.6
Sulpher (Asufre)                                               275                   15                     16.8               73.9           73.9           78.3           83.0           88.0                   397.1
Stone (Piedr. Caliza)                                           90                   16                     26.9               57.6           75,3           80.4           82.0           83.7                   379.0
Salt (Sal)                                                    635                    13                     12.4               25.2           25.2           27.5           29.9            32.2                  140.0
Ni.celleous (Otro.)                                                                                         14.0              115.5          119.0           122.5          126.3          130.1                  613.4
86b-Total                                                                                                                319.7           350.2          370.2          387.5          405.5                 1.833.1
IIIDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
Ruger (Azuc-r)                                                 500                   10                     15.2               86.2           90.4           95.0           99.7           104.7                  476.0
Ceneot (Cesdeto)                                               130                   18                     18.0               66.6           70.6            74.9           79.4           84.1                  375.6
Scrap (Chtatrra)                                               675                   10                     13.8              104.3          109.6          115.1           120.8          126.8                  576.6
Fertili2er (Fertilicante)                                      550                   10                     14.0              246.1          271.3          311.9          332.1           347.3                1,508.7
Steel for constructiou (Fierro)                                775                    8                     15.4               55.6           58.7           60.1           60.8            81.8                  317.0
Steel sheets & plates (Lsines y plces de acero)               800                    9                     14.2               67.0           86.1           93.6          115.0          143.6                   505.3
Brows Sugar (Mscsboo)                                          200                   13                     19.8               17.8           18.1            18.6           19.0           19.3                   12.8
Auto Perts (Materiel d. ensambl- de vehiculos)               1.000                    1                     24.1               55.4           62.7           66.3           70.4            74.7                  329.5
Molasses (Miel de cane)                                        450                   12                     14.5               20.9           22.3            22.3           22.3           22.3                  110.1
Cellulose (Celoloss)                                           900                   10                     12.8               26.2           29.7            33.2           36.7           40.2                  166.0
Bodiua1 Products (Produetos do sodie)                          650                    8                     16.2               25.3           27.1           29.3           31.4            33.9                  147.0
Industrial chaMical products (Froducto Q.1iico led.)           725                    5                     20.8              103.0          113.9          125.0          137.5           151.2                  630.6
Iron  nd Steel pipe. (Tuberias de hierto y *cero)              850                    6                     17.6               51.6           52.8           55.4           58.1            59.5                  277.4
Miscellaneou (Otto.)                                                                                        18.4              435.7          448.8          462.2          475.8          490.2                 2.312.7
Sub-Tot-l                                                                                                               1,361.7        1,462.1        1,562.9        1,659.0        1,779.6                 7,825.3
VARIOUS PRODUCTS (producto  varios)                                                                         17.5               89.8           92.6            95.4          98.2          101.2                   477.2
TOTAL CARLOAD REVENUE (Flete tetl carrt  cotero)                                                                           3,630.0        3,978.9        4,202.2        4,600.8        4,827.8                21,239.7
L.C.L. REVENUI  (Flete en manos d. carro)                                                                                      14.9            14.9           14.9           14.9           14.9                    74.5
Grand Total                                                                                                             3,644.9        3,993.8        4,217.1        4,615.7        4,842.7                21,314.2
1/ 1974 average haul v.e. sdjusted to the nearest freight clasoificati-o
Source:  1 de M end   B,  Estiaete.
July 1975



THIRAIIMAY PROJECT
-PseaUm 3wi7eot-175-1979
(   Mai$* million)
1975 Fares                                                                                                                                                                TOrAL
per                         1975                        1976                        1977                        1978                        1979                     1975-1979
nu-km                P6s.-km      Revenue        Paas-4m      Rvenue        pass-a       Revenue        ?eas-4w       Revenue        Nasa-lw     Revenue              RL.'emues
First el...
Sleeper                        14C                    104.1       14.6            109.1         15.3        114.5        16.0           119.7         16.8           125.0        17.5                    80.2
Ooach                          llC                    595.7       65.6           625.5          66.8        655.3        72.1           "5.1         75.4           714.9        78.6
Sub-Total                                                         80.2                          84.1                     88.1                         92.2                        96.1                   440.7
S cgld Cus:                            7C;                2,14U.1      150.4          2,255.5        157.9      2,362.9        165.4        2,470.3        172.9         2,577.7       180.4                   827.0
Total                                                           230.6                         242.0                     253.5                       265.1                       276.5                 1,267.7
Less: Ooyant tax   191                                          (36.8)                        (36.6)                    (40.4)                      (42.3)                      (44.1)                 (202.2)
met 41s                                                         193.6                         203,4                    213.1                        222.8                       Z2.4
0.1                          0.1 C.C                                               *.2                         0.3                     0.9
1411;olloum                                                               0.5                          0.5                       0.6                          0.6                        0.7                     2.9
Orand Total                                                     194.4                         204.0                    213.9                        223.6                       233.4                 1,069.3
Mdjuawa a6WI   *a     to less of tffic ft
aw,weaei.  of a_  Ctram                                              172.0                         186.0                    197.0                        2.0                         215.0
80urc: N de N and Sank Zatiatss
Fa'rw1y 2.976



ANNEX 16
Page 1
MEXCO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of Financing Plan
1.        N de M's cash flow and financing plan are shown in Table 10 of
the report. Amounts are shown in 19?5 Mexican pesos for years 1975
through 1979; therefore, price contingencies are excluded. Physical
contingencies are also excluded from the calculations.
2.        The financing plan covers the period of the investment plan
rather than that of the project years of 1976-1977. It was convenient
to do so because the project items extended into 1978.
3.        The plan depends largely on Government financial support,
about 48% of total funds requirement.
4.        N de M's long-term and short- and medium-term debts for 1974
are given in Table 1 of this Annex. The terms and conditions of local
and foreign borrowings are as follows:
Exim Bank
(a) 70% of loan at 7.5% interest rate for 10 years. Repayments
are between year 5 and year 10.
(b) 30% of loan at 0.9% over the prime rate. Repayments are
between year 2 and year 10.
(c) lO% of the loan acquired during 1976-1979 would be at 8%
interest rate. Repayments are between year 5 and year 10.
Signals, locomotives and track structures will be purchased
from this loan.
World Bank
100% of loan at 8.5% for 25 years with four years grace plus
standard commitment charges.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Export Development Bank Canada
(a) 60% of loan at 7-1/2% interest rate for 12 years.
Repayments are between year 10 and year 12.
(b)  40% of loan at 1.5% over the prime rate.  Repayments
are between year 4 and year 6.
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
At an interest rate of 2% over the prime rate.
Repayments are between year 3 and year 7.
Swiss Bank
(a) 100( of loan at 3.75% higher than Swiss National Bank's
interest rate for 10 years.
Other Sources
(a)  Through NAFINSA at 14.5% interest rate.  Repayments
year 1 to year 5.
(b) Other - estimated interest rate 9% and repayments in
5 years.
5.        The exchange rate used is Mex$ 12.5 = US$1.
6.        The financing plan includes 200 passenger cars and 30 mail
cars which have already been purchased from Canada and Swiss Bank
respectively; the Government wil-L assume the debt service charges.
February 1976



ANNEX 16
Table 1
MEXICO
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Long-term, Short- and Medium-term Loans as of December 31, 1974
Foreign Creditors                                         MPxr MilJ_kyn
Exim Bank (Through Nacional Financiera, S.A.)          1,552.3
Export Development Canada                                190.5
United States Steel                                       50.0
IBRD                                                     550.8
Various                                                   81.5
Total                             2,425.1
Local Creditors
Constructora Nacional de Carros de Ferrocarril         1,059.2
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.   1,177.2
Nacional Financiera                                       83.8
Various                                                   27.8
Total                             2,348.0
GRAND TOTAL                  4,773.1
November 1975






lARD 3455 A
B A    J A NMMM                                               H                                                                                     i*M
R                                       R          | | i i ALFOR  RA)YA
,,.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E0   x V,e
3D                    L  k>EGO  0oS ....... IS"  ..,.M.,.d -.. 0 U#i0
4                  <\ 0: ; 0 AJORTHE#N                                     R A  I LWAYS
'44  4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30 4
2 s tz , S J ) > / @ V  o '                                                                                            IZ d  550  $    495   SR# Z
t  E 0  .                 k                 e      Huirlc</C M toua1                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G411 f    o, ME-C
|~~~~NON" DE                                          z\                   '\    
|  q)      DE3G )'"C'       .t                                            8~CEI          {                                             '
+~ OTHER RAWAVYS
o  DCL PAtIO                                                                   Pi o  ( D,EA U . ',
4  SONORA-RAJA CALIFORNIA
O- CMIISAMAA AL PAAOFCQQv..
| Z)  LIADQSDEL RVAESTE
MAIN ROADS
:l  AIRPORTS
|RIT~ | t 'm'S1  i)9bT Rt#FA  -'   [                            1171*>          \  0      <      /      pSey a    dwswX   ~ A   [ffi20sE--izrSU-'M-E   @]'S$!'3Jr-' SiS   18A
r =_ I P   L    r>    eel    .    {    Rrs;F4   \|   Cd   J   .  Ly  t I_= Clj 4ilttnt m dSHNDA
| ( $ ' ME   v   I  c  I  \  ||  s  i  Glx  Gxnoffi / @ W IUS TIA IZ4 AS
|  t   !i  t   Che tru411dwrd v t* wVr eW S4S* 1 dA MOr                                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
t   /       S  /   ;e  e D r   * sw o , *   z r  *   a I  7 r d * r e r w l   b y   . .  P t * fl.s                 NoA10084\<  >  \  SSlil t  G-  ) -   C '*.
MI'      M(TMMv4                         PLO                                                                           <>tI'MM0bpS MMAOI






Li Pt
4 L   -  ='  ........  ktl=_   ..  .  ,  ,   0   _   2           ==                       5                F
0~~~~~~~~*
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       z~~~~~~A ,






a>~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
I  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a              2-~~~~~~~~f
a a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t



