Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USIE ONLY
Rept No.  13511
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT LOAN
(LOAN 2885-MOR)
SEPTEKBER 12, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currencv Unit: Moroccan Dirham
EXCHANGE RATE
Appraisal year average (1986)            US$1  =  DH 9.1
Intervening years average (1987-1991)    US$1  =  DH 8.4
Completion year average (1992)           US$1  =  DH 8.5
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Diurctor-General
Operations Evmlustbon                                                     September 12, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Morocco -
Agnicultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2885-MOR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Morocco Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 2885-MOR). The Borrower prepared Part II.
The loan was very ambitious. Including the conditions of negotiations, 56 legal conditions
were to be met in 13 areas: cereals, sugar, milk, edible oils, seeds, irrigation, fertilizer, livestock
support services, animal feed, public expenditures, forestry, agricultural research, and a food-security
program. It foresaw eliminating import licensing and other administrative constraints on agricultural
imports while moving crop pricing close to parity with world prices. In domestic marketing, it aimed
to eliminate government monopolies and other constraints. It involved substantial parastatal reforms.
Implementation was slow and difficult. Rather than 18 months it took 44. The PCR explains
that some of "the subsector reforms tackled under ASAL-II" came up against strong resistance from
groups both outside and within the Government. Protracted delays ensued as the Government
worked to define sector deregulation plans acceptable to both the Bank and its own constituencies."
Nevertheless, nearly all legal conditions of the loan were met. But certain follow-on measures
transcended or reversed actions taken. For example, rather than continue to administer fertilizer
prices but with lower subsidies, the Government stopped setting fertilizer prices. Treatment of luxury
flour is a case of reversal: it was to be a fully liberalized commodity, but the Government introduced
"moderation accords" with bakers and millers that in effect established ceiling prices. On balance,
however, the agricultural economy was substantially liberalized, and its taxation-hitherto
excessive-substantially reduced.
Since loan appraisal, Morocco's agriculture has performed impressively. Over 1985-90
agricultural growth was 5 percent per annum, while private investment soared, and farm wages
increased by about half in real terms. Presumably, Morocco's ongoing structural adjustment, including
that fomented by the ASAL, underlies this extraordinary outcome.
The PCR is more than adequate. It is unusually analytic in showing how the Borrower's
national politics affected loan design and implementation.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, institutional development as substantial and
sustainability of the reforms as likely.
An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kdpp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



t



ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL           Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASIL           Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
C+F            Cost plus freight
CIF            Cost, insurance, and freight
CNCA           National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse nationale de credit agricole)
CMRP           Cereals Market Reform Project
(Projet de Reforme de la Commercialisation des Cereales) (PRCC)
CPI            Consumer price index
CY             Calendar year
DH             Dirham
DPAE           Economic Affairs and Planning Directorate
(Direction de la Planification et des Affaires Economiques)
DRC            Domestic resource cost coefficient
EEC            European Economic Commnunity
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FDA            Agricultural Development Fund
(Fonds de developpement agricole)
FERTIMA        National Fertilizer Marketing Company
(Fertilisants marocains)
FOB            Free-on-board
GATIT          General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GNP            Gross National Product
GOM            Government of Morocco
IM            Initiating Memorandum
IMF            International Monetary Fund
INRA           National Agricultural Research Institute
(Institut national de la recherche agronomique)
ITPA          Industrial Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
OED            Operations Evaluations Department
ONICL          Office for Cereals and Leguminous Crops
(Office national interprofessionnel des c6rales et des legumineuses)
ORMVA          Regional Office for Agricultural Development
(Office regional de mise en valeur agricole)
MARA           Ministry if Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la R6forme Agraire)
MCI            Ministry of Commerce and Industry
(Ministere du Commerce et de l'Industrie)
MTASAP         Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
NPC            Nominal protection coefficient
PCR            Project Completion Report
PERL           Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan
PAR            Performance Audit Report
PR             President's Report
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SONACOS        National Seed Company
(Societe nationale de commercialisation des semences)
TOR            Terms of reference
USAID          United States Agency for International Development






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2885-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE              .........................................................................                                                                                                                            i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .............................................................    iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....................................    1
Economic  Background                    ...........................................................                                                                                                       1
The Medium-Term  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program  (MTASAP) .............................    2
Bank  Support for the  MTASAP:   ASAL-1    ...............................................                                                                                                               3
The  Second  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan  (ASAL-2)    ....................................                                                                                                       5
Preparation  of ASAL-2: Economic  and  Sector Work    ...................................                                                                                                5
Implementation  Record    .....................................................                                                                                                          6
Administration  of ASAL-2   .........................................................                                                                                                                   11
Disbursements    ..........................................................                                                                                                             11
Co-Financing    ...........................................................                                                                                                             I 1
Reporting  Requirements  .....................................................                                                                                                          12
Follow-on  Operations   ......................................................                                                                                                          12
Impact of ASAL-2   ..............................................................                                                                                                                       12
General Agricultural Sector Growth  Patterns   ........................................                                                                                                 13
Protection  Patterns  ..............................................................                                                                                                                    13
Investments   ............................................................                                                                                                              14
Government Budget   .......................................................                                                                                                             14
Subsector Deregulation    .....................................................                                                                                                         15
Institutional Reforms    ............................................................                                                                                                                   17
Conclusions  ..................................................................                                                                                                                         19
Economic  Issues   .........................................................                                                                                                            19
Lessons Learned    .........................................................                                                                                                            21
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...............                                                                                          ....................  22
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .....                                                             ......................                                                                                             25






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2885-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan in Morocco, for which loan 2885-MOR in the amount of US $225 million was approved on
November 24, 1987. The Moroccan Govermnent obtained parallel financing in the form of a loan
from the African Development Bank of US $150 million. The loan's effectiveness date was extended
twice, for a total of four-and-a-half months beyond the loan's anticipated start-up, and closed two
years behind schedule, on April 1, 1992.
Parts I and Im of this PCR were prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Middle East and North Africa Region of the Bank; the Borrower contributed Part II.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Initiating Memorandum, the President's
Report (P-5637-MOR), the loan agreement, minutes from negotiations, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank documents.






- iii -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2885-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.     After being buoyed by a sharp rise in international commodity prices, when revaluation of its large
phosphate reserves led to dramatic improvement in its terms of trade, Morocco suddenly found itself in
balance-of-payments crisis by the end of the 1970s when commodity prices collapsed. Ambitious public
spending programs launched in the early 1970s proved unsustainable ten years later. Thus, Morocco began a
dialogue with the international financial community over its economic future, including important policy
adjustments in its industrial and agricultural sectors (with World Bank support), as well as in stabilizing its
macroeconomy (in tandem with the International Monetary Fund).
2.    In agriculture, a Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program was defined by the
Government. The World Bank and other multi- and bilateral donors funded this program, beginning in 1985,
with the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2590-MOR). Under this first operation, the focus
was on reducing public expenditures in the agricultural sector (including fertilizer, animal support services,
and input subsidies), building interministerial consensus regarding agricultural sector policy reforms and
investment priorities, and strengthening the economic analysis capability of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform. The record of the follow-on operation, the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, is
the focus of this report. Its overall objectives included: 1) liberalization of the agricultural and food pricing,
marketing and trade regime; 2) promotion of agro-industrial exports; and 3) design of medium-term public
investment strategies for both irrigated and rainfed agriculture.
Implementation Experience
3.    Implementation of ASAL-2 was difficult, although the Bank was probably overly-optimistic about the
speed at which the reform program could be implemented. All conditions of the loan were ultimately met
according to the letter of the loan agreement. However, the subsector reforms tackled under the ASAL-2
were some of the most politically sensitive (cereals, sugar, oilseeds), and the unexpected force with which
agricultural and agro-industrial interests lobbied the Government as it worked to define sector deregulation
plans acceptable to both the Bank and its own constituencies led to protracted delays in implementation. This
resulted in a loan period of forty-four months, rather than the eighteen months which had originally been
anticipated. Even after the closing of the ASAL-2 operation, major sections of the deregulation plans have
yet to be implemented.
4.    The loan agreement specifically lists 56 conditions to be met in fourteen different substantive areas
(agricultural trade, cereals, sugar, edible oils, milk, targeted compensatory programs, fertilizer, seeds,
irrigation water, livestock support services, animal feed, public expenditures, forestry, and agricultural
research).



- iv -
5.    Fertilizer distribution has been liberalized and subsidies eliminated, and certified seed distribution and
many livestock support services have been privatized. Recovery of irrigation water charges has improved
signing country. The Economic Affairs and Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture has been
strengthened noticeably by a ten-year institutional support and training project financed by USAID.
Agricultural imports have been liberalized, although the implementation texts for the new Foreign Trade Law
(passed in December 1992) are still being finalized. Delays in publication of these texts have held up
implementation of new formulae for defining domestic producer prices for agricultural commodities. The
subsidy on a limited amount of low-quality wheat flour continues, despite much attention paid to the targeting
of compensatory programs to ameliorate the effect of its expected elimination on Morocco's most vulnerable
populations. The persistence of the subsidy has, in turn, prevented complete deregulation of marketing and
international trade in bread wheat. Progress in reforming the sugar and edible oils sectors has been slow.
Agreements by the Government under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan - SAL 2 (Ln. 3463-MOR) with
regard to imports, import pricing and other internal deregulation measures for these commodities, however,
should ultimately bring the necessary pressures to bear on these two sectors.
Impact
6.    The usual caveats pertaining to an impact assessment of a sector adjustment operation apply to ASAL-
2: it is difficult to separate the influences of actions under the Loan from other forces occurring at the same
time. Nonetheless, certain observations are in order.
7.    Pricing policy. The biggest single impact of ASAL-2 has been the reversal of the Government's
sectoral pricing policy. Economic and sector work undertaken by the Government at the beginning of ASAL-
1 indicated that domestic price policy taxed agricultural producers prior to the MTASAP (except for sugar
producers, who were strongly protected) and protected producers in other sectors (e.g., industry). Actions
taken by the Government since the introduction of the MTASAP have led to the nominal and effective
protection of all agricultural producers which has obviously caused distortions within the agricultural sector,
but resulted in more of a balance in protection rates across sectors. Protection of agriculture has been
formalized through 1) the safeguard clause for cereals (under the ASAL-2), 2) the reference price formulae
for sugar and oil seeds (SAL-2), and 3) tarification of current quantitative restrictions for meat and milk
imports (also SAL-2).
8.    Government investments. The MTASAP did not succeed at assuring target investment allocations
expressed as a percentage of the total Government budget, at reordering MARA's priorities away from large-
scale irrigation. The latter, however, is not surprising given the prevalence of droughts in recent years.
Sustainability
9.    ASAL-2 represented the second and last phase of what was envisioned as a five-year ("medium-term")
reform process. However, unfinished reform business argues in favor of an on-going adjustment presence in
Morocco. After ASAL-2, the Bank has focused on strengthening MARA's investment portfolio by financing
a tranche of the investment budget with an Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (Ln. 3403-MOR). A second
ASIL is currently under preparation, and will include a policy reform component. Other Bank operations
(such as the SAL-2, already mentioned above) have continued the dialogue with regard to reforms in
Morocco's agricultural sector and the proposed Private Sector Development lending program, particularly the
agro-industries component, should carry on with deregulation for sugar and oil seeds.



Lessons Learnd
10.   Certain clear lessons have emerged from the ASAL-2 experience. First the overall loan package,
including the President's Report, the Loan Agreement the minutes of negotiation etc., needs to be coherent
and consistent. Lack of consistency leads to mixed messages and difficulties in implementation. Second, the
process of reform is a long one, one which can not easily be scheduled into a two-, four-, or even eight-year
operation. The more broadly defined MTASAP, of course, is predicated on this notion. In retrospect,
however, even a medium-term (i.e. five-year) operation may be overly short-sighted. Consideration should
be given from the beginning, therefore, to a much longer period of Bank support for adjustment. Finally,
intersectoral operations need to have clear owners and constituents or they will not achieve their objectives.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2885-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Economic Background
1.    The Kingdom of Morocco embarked on sectoral and structural adjustment in advance of most
other World Bank clients. This is due to several factors: 1) as a resource-rich country, it had
relatively easy access to international commercial capital in the 1970s and by the 1980s, the servicing
of the ensuing debt burden was pressing hard on Morocco's balance of payments which had become
strained by plummeting terms of trade and drought; and 2) pressures on the Government budget were
mounting due to a host of complex Government interventions in the economy. Despite its "head
start" or perhaps because of it, the road to sectoral and structural adjustment in Morocco was not an
easy one, as the Government had to contend with potentially volatile public reactions to some of its
economic reforms.'
2.    Morocco's agricultural policies over the last twenty years have been affected by a number of
exogenous developments, inter alia a rapid rise in energy prices, the rapid expansion and subsequent
dramatic contraction of the international phosphate market in the 1970s (Morocco controls at least
60% of the world's phosphate reserves), a tightening of Morocco's traditional export markets, and
recurring droughts. Under the influence of its relatively easy access to capital resources, the
Government embarked on an ambitious public spending program. This included the introduction of
subsidies, both on agricultural inputs and on basic foodstuffs, to maintain living standards, combat
inflation, control profit margins, and encourage production or the adoption of certain technologies.
These developments, coupled with the fiscal burden of military expenditures incurred since 1975 with
the recovery of the Saharan provinces, led to a drastic degradation of the country's fundamental
economic accounts by the late 1970s.
3.     Following the usual trends for middle-income countries, the structure of the Moroccan
economy has shifted increasingly towards manufacturing while the relative share of agriculture in
value-added and trade over the last twenty years has fallen. This was due as much to a deceleration
of growth in the agricultural sector as to the expansion of other sectors. Of concern to Moroccan
policy makers was the widening of the food gap and its consequences for the agricultural trade
balance. Food production in the late 1970s and early 1980s did not keep pace with demand,
increasing due to rapid population growth, income growth, urbanization, and declining real food
prices. This necessitated substantial increases in food imports. As public sector finances grew
increasingly strained, mounting cross-indebtedness among the parastatals and Government agencies
responsible for implementation of agricultural price policy threatened to strangle the public sector-
dominated commodity markets and render the official pricing system ineffective.
I Food riots erupted several dmes in tde early 1980s in Moroccan cities in response to the government's announced intention to rise
prices on surategic consumer goods (wbeat flour, vegetable oil, sugar, petroleum).



- 2 -
4.       In 1980, the Government initiated economic policy reform  discussions with both the
International Monetary Fund and the Bank. However, partly in response to food riots in 1980, the
Government suspended discussion on a structural adjustment loan which was then under preparation.
5.      Nonetheless, over the period of the 1980s, Morocco nade substantial progress in the reform
of its macroeconomy. The official exchange rate between the Dirham and the U.S. Dollar went from
3.94 DH/US$ in 1980 to 8.5 DH/US$ (1989), while the real effective exchange rate index fell from
134.1 (1980, 1985=100) to 90.8 (1989), thereby reducing the penalization of exports and the
favoring of imports. The current account balance, in deficit by as much as 12.7% of GDP in 1982,
reverted to surplus during 1987 and 1988 before returning to a slight deficit again in the 1990s.
Inflation, which measured more than 12% in 1981, was brought under control (averaging 2.7% from
1987 to 1989, albeit rising to 6.7% in 1990). These improvements have set the macroeconomic stage
for a revitalization of the agricultural sector through the Medium-Term Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (MTASAP).
The Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adiustment Program (MTASAP)
6.      Given the aborted attempt at a SAL, a decision was made in the Bank to proceed more
cautiously, on a sectoral, rather than macroeconomic, level. Two sector studies were undertaken,
examining the patterns of protection and comparative advantage in industry and agriculture. These
studies were useful for the breadth and depth of sector information they revealed as well as for the
dialogue they inaugurated. Each of them fed directly into comprehensive sectoral reform programs.
The first study, lasting three years (1980-83) and carried out jointly by the Bank and the Moroccan
Ministry of Comnerce and Industry, provided the underpinnings for two Industrial Trade and Policy
Adjustment (ITPA) Loans (Loan No. 2377-MOR, 1983-85 and Loan No. 2604-MOR, 1985-86).2
The second study, carried out in the then Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA)3
from 1984-85, was launched in tandem with implementation of the first phase of the Government's
agricultural sector reform program.4
7.       In response to the intensifying economic contradictions and mounting fiscal pressures of the
late 1970s and early 1980s, the Kingdom of Morocco launched a broad, medium-term (five years)
The final product of the study was World Bank, Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion, Report No. 4893-MOR,
January 1984. The MA loans, I and I, are reviewed in a combined project completion report dated May 5, 1988. See also Brendan
Horton, Morocco: Analysis and Reform of Economic Policy, EDI Development Policy Case Series, Number 4 (Washington, DC: Economic
Development Institute of The World Bank, 1990).
'MARA was renamed the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development in October 1993 but will be referred to as MARA
throughout this report because that was its name during the implementation period of the loan.
4 ASAL-1 was prepared largely on the basis of 1) already existing sectoral analysis done under the aegis of preparation of the ill-fated
1980 SAL and 2) Bank examination of the fertilizer subsector. On the former, see World Bank, Memorandum on Morocco's Agricultural
Sector: Identification of Issues and Bank Strate v, Repon No. 2667a-MOR, May 2, 1980. On the latter, see World Bank, Morocco:
Memorandum on Fertilizer Demand and Pricint, Report No. 4526-MOR, June 30, 1983. The prices and incentives study produced a final
document, Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform and Associates for International Resources and Development, La Politicue de orix
et d'incitations dans Ie secteur atricole, Rapport final. Janvier 1986, which was subsequently incorporated into World Bank, Kingdom of
Morocco: Airncultural Prices and Incentives Study, Report No. 6045-MOR, May 1986.



program in 1985 for the adjustment of its agricultural sector.5 Four broad areas of reform were
identified: 1) restructuring of the public investment program, 2) realignment of the agricultural price
and incentives framework to promote economic efficiency and resource mobilization, 3) strengthening
of public sector services and inputs delivery, including partial privatization and improved cost
recovery, and 4) development of an institutional capacity for analysis, implementation and monitoring
of agricultural policy and resource use planning.
8.      Within these broad areas, the MTASAP touched on virtually every aspect of agricultural
sector operations and development in the key subsectors of the Moroccan agricultural economy. The
overall level of MARA's investment budget and the process of investment planning were examined,
along with broad inter-subsectoral (rainfed versus irrigated agriculture) and individual subsectoral
priorities. Patterns of agricultural sector comparative advantage and concordant or discordant
protection policies (nominal and effective) were reviewed for cereals, pulses, citrus, vegetables, dairy,
meat, oilseeds, and sugar crops, as was the evolution of agricultural sector terms of trade vis-a-vis
those for industry. The effect of untargeted consumer subsidies on agricultural production patterns
was explored, and alternative targeted subsidies were proposed in a spirit of cost-reduction and
efficiency improvement. The efficiency of Government support services (agricultural extension,
research, livestock services including animal health care and breeding services, fertilizer marketing,
seed production and marketing, cereals marketing, milk marketing, agricultural export marketing,
institutional credit delivery, and irrigation management) was assessed and action plans proposed. The
need to strengthen policy planning and analysis capabilities in MARA was underscored. Finally,
Morocco's land tenure and natural resource conservation and management systems were evaluated and
proposals made for their modernization.
9.      Detailed action programs were defined for a subset of the above-mentioned subsectors,
including irrigation, livestock, research and extension, inputs marketing, forestry, cereals, and land
tenure. These programs provided the basis for the definition of policy reform conditionalities under
the original Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (hereafter, ASAL-1).
Bank Support for the MTASAP: ASAL-1
10.    Implementation of the MTASAP was designed to take place in several phases, the first of
which was carried out under the ASAL-1 to Morocco, which ran from 1985 to 1987.6 ASAL-1 is
recognized as having been an exceptionally well-prepared operation, the specific accomplishments of
which, when considered as a stand-alone operation, were considered "marginal" by OED.'
However, ASAL-1 was not a stand-alone operation. It generated an analytic framework for the
agricultural sector which supported a follow-on operation (ASAL-2) and provided important on-the-
ground experience in "process" issues along the way. OED goes on to state that "the impact of the
' Presented in the government's letter of development policy in preparation of the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan.
See the World Bank President's Report (PR) on ASAL-1, Report No. P-4032-MOR, Annex IV, May 28, 1985. See also pp. 14-38 which
summarize a complete presentation of the prgram in a Technical Support Volume to the PR.
I ASAL-1 disbursed S100 million from 1985 through 1987. See the World Bank's President's Report on ASAL-1. May 28, 1985
(Report No. P-4032-MOR); 'ASAL (2590-MOR) Project Completion Report,' June 22, 1988; and World Bank, Operations Evaluation
Department, 'Program Performance Audit Report: Morocco - ASAL (Loan 2590-MOR),' June 26, 1989.
OED audit, p. 15.



- 4 -
specific conditions [of ASAL-11 ... is significant..." and that the overall program has been
worthwhile.
11.      Hallmarks of ASAL-1 include 1) its contribution to fiscal savings for MARA  by reducing or
eliminating public sector intervention in livestock sector support services, animal feed price
regulation, fertilizer distribution, irrigation cost subsidies, etc., 2) its insistence on the establishment
of an interministerial coordination committee to facilitate the building of consensus across ministries
with regard to agricultural sector policy reforms and investment priorities, and 3) the support it gave
to the Agricultural Prices and Incentives study underway, thereby legitimizing the role of economic
analysis in the policy reform dialogue and helping to assure the prominence of such analysis in the
future work plan of the Direction of Economic Affairs and Planning within MARA.8
12.      ASAL-1 has been criticized, however, for its bias in favor of fiscal savings and its lack of
progress in areas of sectoral reform and investment which would have cost the Government money or
led to restructuring of monopoly market situations.9 Other sector reforms, however, were an order
of magnitude more complicated and more politically sensitive, and the Bank held off on them until it
had better ammunition in the form of a completed sector analysis.'" Publication of the Agricultural
Prices and Incentives Study led directly into the initiating memorandum (IM) for ASAL-2, released in
June 1986. ASAL-1 also proved unable, despite its interministerial coordinating committee, to
resolve the inevitable tensions which crop up between technical ministries, with their own sectoral
interests to defend, and financial and planning ministries, which defend and control access to
Governmental budget resources. Even more distressing, the perception by MARA of excessive fiscal
cost reduction bias in ASAL-1 introduced an element of tension into what had been an unusually
productive, cooperative working relationship between Bank staff and MARA leadership.
A separate, long-term technical assistance project. Planning, Economics, and Statistics for Agnculture, also funded by USAID (1983-
93), assigned four expatriate advisors (two economists and two statisticians), beginning in 1985, to the DPAE for the purpose inter alia of
on-site training in economics and quantitative analysis, reform of sample survey and cost of production survey methodology, and
modernization of MARA's computer capacity. The project has umned 28 M.A. and Ph.D. degree students from DPAE at U.S. universities
in economics, statistics, and computer sciences.
' See the PAR, pp. 17-18, as wel as the PCR, pp. 51-52. The Government's perspective on this issue is reflected in a public address
made by a high-placed MARA official: 'The assessment drawn from three years of executing the adjustment program has permitted us to
reach the folowing conclusions: measures that constrain the agricultural sector or increase the cost of production, have been generally
implemented, while those which have a compensatory aspect were not executed ... In fact, the structural adjustment program has been
executed only partially, and, due to this fact, it has resulted in a significant reduction of governmental budget transfers to the agriculturl
sector, which risks increasing the costs of production and a consequent reduction in farmer revenues. Furthermore, this incomplete program
execution could accentuate the under-protection of the sector and deteriomte much more the terms of tmde between agriculture and the rest
of the economy.' See Mokhtar Naanani, 'Moroccan Experience in Stiuctural Adjustment for the Agricultural Sector,' discourse delivered
at FAO/Rome, October 1988, pp. 5-7.
0 To do otherwise meant risking the future of an increasingly respectful collaboration between MARA and the Bank. The Bank had
incurred the wrath of MARA at one point in early 1985 when, as international sugar prices were at their nadir, it was recommended that
Morocco reduce support for its sugar sector, given its lack of economic viability (on average) when measured at those low prices. The
issue was smoothed over by the Bank's resorting to both a longer-term and a more disaggregated perspective on the sugar sector, calculating
DRCs on the basis of 1981-1984 international pnce averages and for each individual sugar mill.



The Second Agricultural Sector Adiustment Loan (ASAL-2)
Preparation of ASAL-2: Economic and Sector Work
13.    While ASAL-1 may have been prepared in somewhat of a knowledge vacuum, ASAL-2
operated under no such constraint. Beginning in early 1984, economists worked in residence with a
high-level working group of MARA division leaders for 19 months, elaborating price and non-price
measures which affected producer incentives."' In the process, Government officials gained a much
sharper understanding both of their own agricultural sector and of a discrete number of analytic tools
used to measure incentive structures. Bank staff supervised the study quite closely, albeit on an
informal basis. Also, two separate Bank exercises examined interactions among cereals in a dynamic
model of the grain subsector and targeted food subsidy programs which could replace the general
consumer subsidies in effect at the time.'2
14.    The prices and incentives study underscored several contradictions in patterns of protection
and comparative advantage. First, farmers in irrigated areas benefitted to a far greater degree than
their rainfed counterparts from indirect protection via subsidies on inputs (irrigation water, fertilizers,
seeds, agro-industrial by-products used for livestock feeds in the intensive dairying subsector, etc.)
and from higher rates of nominal protection on sugar crops (cane and beet), a large percentage of
which are grown under irrigated conditions. Second, nominal protection rates contradicted Morocco's
agricultural comparative advantage (sugar crops, for which DRCs were well above 1.00 or even
negative due to negative economic value-added, were particularly highly protected, while traditional
export crops such as citrus, in which Morocco had strong comparative advantage, were taxed).
Third, consumer subsidies on bread wheat flour and vegetable oil resulted in a shift in domestic
demand away from commodities in which Morocco had a traditional comparative advantage (durum
wheat, used in couscous and bread production, and olive oil) and in favor of imported goods.
15.    The study also went on to identify a host of constraints which impeded efficient subsector
operation. Government policy determined not only producer prices for major commodities (cereals,
sugar crops, oilseeds, cotton, citrus, export vegetables, meats, milk), consumer prices for many of the
processed products derived therefrom (two grades of wheat flour, granulated and loaf sugar, vegetable
oils, and milk), and prices of significant agricultural inputs (inter alia fertilizers and other agro-
chemicals, irrigation water, machinery rental rates, seeds, credit, veterinary services, animal feeds), it
also fixed marketing, processing, and transport margins, and regulated international trade in these
products via quantitative restriction and licenses.
16.    It was expected in the IM that negotiations for ASAL-2 would occur in February 1987, for
effectiveness conditions to have an impact on the 1987/88 agricultural campaign. Timing of various
stages of ASAL-2 p-eparation was to be made contingent on 1) fulfillment of second tranche release
conditions for ASAL-1 (ASAL-2 appraisal), 2) agreement between the GOM and the IMF on a
stabilization package (ASAL-2 negotiations), and 3) resolution of the issues which held up second
" Technical assistance for this study was provided under USAID's Planning, Economics, and Statistics for Agriculture Project.
"2 World Bank, KinRdom of Morocco: Agricultural Prices and Incentives Study, Annex V: Simnulation of the Moroccan Grains Markets:
An Econometric Dynamic Model, and World Bank. Compensatory Programs for Reducing Food Subsidies, Report No. 6172-MOR, April
1986.



-6-
tranche release of ITPA-II (ASAL-2 Board presentation). Conditions for ASAL-2 tranche releases
were designed to fit the timing of the agricultural season(s).
17.      As with ASAL-1, ASAL-2 financed a positive list of essential agricultural imports'3 at a
level which corresponded to estimated needs of a two-to three-year period. The IM originally
proposed a loan of $100 million (ceiling of $150 million), to be released in two tranches over
eighteen months. In fact, ASAL-2 became a $225 million loan, released in three tranches over forty-
four months." Reasons for the protracted schedule of the operation are discussed in paras. 18-30
below.
Implementation Record'5
18.      In fact, ASAL-2 was not negotiated in February as anticipated, but rather in September 1987.
The delay in negotiation foreshadowed the protracted implementation of ASAL-2. It seems that the
confidence gained by Bank staff as a result of its careful preparatory sector work in 1984 through
1986 may have led to overconfidence in their own ability to supervise adequately such a complicated,
politically sensitive reform  package.'6  While many of the linkages between policy and economic
effect were well understood by 1986, Bank staff underestimated both the ability of key Moroccan
pressure groups, especially in agro-industrial subsectors, to organize against reforms perceived not to
be in their interests and the ability of Moroccan policy makers to leam the analytic tools being taught
them well enough to negotiate strategic compromises from the Bank.
19.     The delay in ASAL-2 negotiations was due in part to the Bank's own internal preoccupations
(1987 reorganization). However, of greater importance was mounting donor concern with Morocco's
macroeconomic instability in mid-1986. Public consumption had risen dramatically, without any
increase in public revenues, which led Morocco to resort to open market operations and an increase in
public sector payment arrears. Credit issued by the Central Bank was necessary to cover the
Government's budget deficit. Thus, the IMF's stand-by for 1986 became inoperative, the Bank's
release of ASAL-l's second tranche was upheld, and the appraisal of ASAL-2, scheduled for June
1986, was canceled. For its part, the Government had specific concerns relating to fertilizer price
increases required by ASAL-1'7 and the estimated fiscal burden of any new targeted compensatory
' Herbicides and pesticides (subject to Bank approval overall and with regard to usage and storage regulations), seed, veterinary
medicine, spare parts for agncultural and agro-industrial machinery and irrigation equipment, animal feed, and fuel imports for agriculture
(not to exceed 25 % of the total loan amount). For an actual breakdown of tde loan amount, see para. 31.
" By the time the loan was negotiated, it was apparent that two to three years' worth of agricultural input imports amounted to a much
larger overall figure. Also, there had been a gap in such financing between the end of ASAL-I and the projected start of ASAL-2. Finally,
there was some desire on tde part of the Bank to reward' the Goverment of Morocco for the fact that all eight pre-negotiations conditions
as weU as three effectiveness conditions had already been meL Thus, the total amount requested was $225 million, to be disbursed in three
tranches in order that the conditions, now designed to span two agricultural seasons, might be timed properly. Aside from including the
import of purebred breeding cattle and excluding coverage for ferilizer imports (see para. 32), there was no change in the positive list of
imports authorized under ASAL-1.
" This is examined here in some detail as the process of agricultural sector reform was such a central point of the ASAL-2 operaion.
' Recognizing this, an internal memorndum written immediately after negotiations argues for the need to enlist and coordinate
technical support of ASAL-2 from other operational divisions.
17 The Govermment argued that due to a 35% decrease in averge world fertilizer prices, the effect on the GOM budget of the fertilizer
subsidy was defacto much less, thus mitigating in favor of something less than a 20% increase per ASAL-l 's conditions.



program."8 MARA was also concerned that the Ministry of Finance would not uphold its obligation
to commit a minimum of 15 % of the overall budget to MARA's investment budget, a condition of
ASAL-2 negotiations. As discussed in para. 42, this condition in fact was not met, which led some in
MARA to feel the Bank had let them down (see para. 27).
20.     By appraisal, the Government agreed to faster liberalization of the agricultural import
program (shifting commodities from a list of goods whose importation was banned (List C) or of
goods for which import licenses were required (List B), to a list of goods which could be freely
imported, subject to import tariffs (List A)'9). The Government also promised to reduce consumer
subsidies more quickly than had originally been anticipated; for example, the vegetable oil packaging
subsidy had already been lifted, thereby increasing slightly the consumer prices of edible oils. The
Government also agreed to the notion of creating an "inferior good" in the cereals subsector in order
to better target the flour subsidy.'
21.     By negotiations, the timing of tranche release had to be reformulated to take account of the
seven-month delay. Three tranches were designed, rather than two, to allow for conformity with the
agricultural calendar.2' The minutes of the negotiations indicate that several concessions were made
by both the Bank and the Moroccans at that time since it was perceived that, without them,
negotiations would have completely broken down. Neither side wanted to call it quits as each felt
there had been enough delays already. The concessions by the Moroccan delegation, if they been
implemented as intended, would have strengthened the overall loan package (e.g., for sugar, see
para. 23). The concessions made by the Bank (paras. 22-24) would later haunt staff supervising the
operation.
22.     The first concession by the Bank was the agreement to change language regarding
deregulation of the edible oils subsector. Originally, it was intended that complete deregulation of the
subsector would occur by the final tranche. During negotiations it was agreed that consultants would
be hired by second tranche to prepare an action plan, and implementation of the plan would start by
third tranche. Part of the problem was the lack of high ranking participation from the Ministry of
Comnerce and Industry at negotiations. There was no one with whom  the Bank could seriously
discuss the program on edible oils (or sugar for that matter). The reluctance on the part of the GOM
' At the time, USAID was considering pulling its food aid out of tde Entraide Nationale program, after a long record of suppor  In
addition, limitations of U.S. Government food aid policy regarding monetization of food aid were of concern. Though die World Food
Program was quite interested in expanding its program in Morocco, the Government of Morocco was concerned that the direct effect of any
new compensatory program might aggravate overall budget pressures. 2
" In fact, the Government finessed this condition slightly, by creating a new list (List A*) of goods, the importation of whicb still
required government approval. Official Bank files never noted this new distinction.
> The Government agreed to increase the milling ratio for subsidized bread wheat flour, from 77% (originalfarne ordJnaire) to 80%.
This higher proportion of wheat bran in the flour, it was believed, would create the effect of a 'dirtier flour," and one which consequently
would be less attractive to higher income consumers. Ironically, in developed countries 'whole wheat flour," a higher extraction flour, is
perhaps more highly prized by consumers of higher income. Nonetheless, LSMS data show that, in fact, lower income groups purchase
relatively more of the bread made from this higher extraction rate flour than do higher income groups.
'' A complete list of conditions to be met prior to loan negotiations, loan effectiveness, and the release of the second and third trmnches
of the loan are included in part m of this PCR, and discussed below. ASAL-l's experience with dated covenants having been less than
positive, ASAL-2 included none. Only tranche release conditions were required to be met by the Borrower.



- 8 -
team to accept anything further at negotiations was, in retrospect, indicative of overall resistance to
this component of ASAL-2.
23.    A second concession by the Bank was the modification of the Bank's position regarding the
sugar subsector. A second phase of a sugar industry study was to have started by negotiations; it did
not. In addition, real producer price decreases agreed upon for sugar crops were less than
anticipated. The Bank had originally asked for a 5% real decrease, while the GOM would only agree
to 3 %. The latter did, according to the minutes, agree to begin the sugar sector deregulation program
as of July 1, 1988, ten months later, although this did not become a formal condition because it was
not a precise, monitorable action from a legal standpoint. No mention was made in the minutes or
the loan agreement of an obligation by the Government to share terms of reference for the second
phase of a sugar study with the Bank. A condition for release of the second tranche was the
development of an action plan to ensure complete sugar sector deregulation by June 30, 1993,
implementation of which was to have begun by third tranche release. This condition was added
belatedly at negotiations to compensate for a lack of progress on the sugar study prior to that time.
24.    The last concession by the Bank, considered a relatively minor change at the time, has lent
the weight of Bank approval to a considerable reversal in Government agricultural producer pricing
policy and, in retrospect, created significant new distortions in the agricultural pricing policy
framework, at least when considering short-to-medium run international commodity prices. In order
to wean the Government off its reliance on domestic cost-plus pricing for agricultural commodities, a
formula based on a five-year moving average of international reference prices was proposed by the
Government and accepted by the Bank to calculate domestic producer prices for the four major
cereals and the major oilseeds commodities.' According to minutes from negotiations, it was
agreed between the Bank and the Government that, pending stabilization of international grain
markets,' Morocco would not be obliged to decrease in real terms its domestic producer price for
cereals. In other words, if the theoretical official price (calculated as explained in footnote 22) were
less than the previous year's domestic price, is adjusted for inflation and a "domestic preference
premium", then the latter would apply.' Moroccan policy makers have not exploited the safeguard
clause fully, i.e., they have not always maintained the domestic price at the previous year's real
value. Nominal prices, however, have never fallen. Thus, by virtue of this safeguard clause,
Morocco has gone from being a net taxer to a net protector of both cereals and oilseeds (see analysis
of evolving protection patterns, paras. 39-41 below), relative to actual world prices during the ASAL-
2 period. This safeguard clause was accepted very reluctantly by the Bank and only because of
persuasive arguments by the Ministry of Agriculture that it was temporary pending an agreement with
GATT and domestic cereals market deregulation. Nonetheless, it remains in existence and has
allowed policy makers to essentially continue setting cereals prices administratively.
' For example, in the case of bread wheat, the reference price is equal to a five-year moving average of the (nominal) FOB price, U.S.
Gulf, of hard red winter wheat #2 plus freight to Casablanca, converted into Dirhams at the official exchange rate at the time of the
calculation. To this price, a 25 % protection factor is added as well as the costs of moving the wheat from port to the mill, and from this
the official storage margin is subtracted. This results in a 'theoretical official price' (Moroccan parlance). The difference between the
acntal CIF price and the domestic price thereby calculated is then levied at the border.
D In 1987, the Kingdom of Morocco joined the GATT and became an active participant in the LDC block at the Uruguay Round
negotiations.
2 The consumer price index is used for adjustment. The domestic preference premium is an additional protection factor of 10%.



25.    ASAL-2's effectiveness date was extended twice, from March 4, 1988 to May 4 and then to
August 4, 1988, due to lack of GOM progress on defining the scope of the deregulation plans for the
bread wheat, sugar, and edible oils sectors. While completely finalized programs were not conditions
of effectiveness, but rather of second tranche release, certain elements thereof were (fixing domestic
cereals prices according to international prices, authorizing the milling of high-extraction flour,
decreasing the real producer prices of sugar beet and cane, and freezing the special premia paid to
certain sugar crop producers). In addition, it was presumably feared that lack of progress would
delay second tranche release, for which defined programs were required.
26.    A condition which was required for effectiveness was the condition that the Government
prepare and furnish a plan to ensure adequate nutrition to Morocco's poorest populations (the so-
called targeted compensatory program). During the first half of 1988, the Government tackled this
issue quite seriously. Having already decided in favor of an inferior good concept, the Government
then had to determine an overall production quota for the subsidized, inferior good' and specific
allocations of that quota across the 70-plus bread wheat flour mills in Morocco, made according to
demographics. With these details in place, the loan became effective July 26, 1988.
27.    Given the full year of progress lost to these debates, it is not surprising that "disillusionment
on the part of some people [in the GOM] regarding the Bank" is noted in the first ASAL-2
supervision report. So much energy and good will had already been expended that it should not have
been too hard to anticipate that the next two tranche releases would be even more contentious, given
that the conditions they set forth included the politically most difficult issues to resolve, i.e., not just
tinkering at the margins but total deregulation of the three most important agricultural subsectors in
Morocco. In part, the difficulties encountered stemmed from the fact that while ASAL-2 was
negotiated with the entire Government, its primary client was perceived to be MARA. Yet many of
the actors involved, particularly in sugar and edible oils, were clients themselves of the Ministry of
Commnerce and Industry, which, despite the Bank's best efforts to engage it, did not see itself as
directly involved in ASAL-2.
28.    The Bank recognized this to some extent, and began to pursue sugar sector reform not only
under the aegis of ASAL-2 but also via the Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan - PERL (LN 2820-
MOR), especially PERL-2, then under preparation. While the existence of multiple layers of
responsibility for sugar sector reform comes through in reading the ASAL-2 files, there is never any
formal acknowledgment therein that PERL-2 would "take over" on sugar issues, as indicated in the
PAR for PERL-1L.' Th)ugh that was, at one point, the intention (including closure of uneconomic
sugar mills and privatization of the remaining units), PERL-2 was dropped in December 1991 in part
as a result of the Bank's impatience with Morocco over sugar sector protection issues. The
Moroccans were happy to drop the Loan because the SAL-2 and the second Large-scale Irrigation
Improvement Project (Loan 3587-MOR) were subsequently increased in compensation. Bank
management wanted to drop it in order to bring the era of adjustment lending to close in Morocco
with the SAL-2, and the importance of the PERL-2 for the subsectors it covered was perhaps not
recognized. Receipt of an acceptable plan for reform of the sugar sector held up release of the
I It was decided to limit the production of subsidized ordinary, high-extraction rate flour to 10 million quintals, which represented a
contraction of 40 % from its height in 1984. In addition, it was decided to elinmate the subsidy on luxury flour, which totaled 1.6 million
quintals in 1984.
2' OED, 'Draft Performance Audit Report: Morocco - Public Enterpnse Rationalization Loan ', Febniary 10, 1993, p. 20.



- 10 -
second tranche of ASAL-2 until the end of 1989 (long after the agreed upon July 1988 deadline for
beginning implementation of said plan). In addition, the action plan for reform of the edible oils
sector, not required as a second tranche release condition, but promised according to the minutes of
negotiations before December 1988, had also not yet been submitted, although terms of reference for
the newly hired consultants had been agreed upon. The tranche was not released until January
1990.27
29.      As was the case for effectiveness, the closing date for ASAL-2 had to be extended several
times in order to accommodate on-going intra-Governmental debate over reforms necessary for third
tranche release. Originally set for March 31, 1990, it was extended to April 1, 1991 and then April
1, 1992. Unanticipated legal issues also arose, further complicating implementation of conditions.
For example, the agricultural import liberalization plan called for use of a variable levy to tax
strategic agricultural commodities (cereals, sugar, edible oils, milk, meat, and their derivatives), yet
Moroccan trade laws theretofore did not permit the use of such a tool.' Thus, a new foreign trade
law had to be drafted, debated, passed by Parliament, promulgated into law, along with
implementation legislation.29
30.      Approval of third tranche release came no more easily than that of the two previous tranches.
Although much progress had been made in reform of the various subsectors, as described in a
September 10, 1990 communication from the Minister of Economic Affairs to the Bank's Regional
Director,' approval for release of the tranche was still held up for lack of a viable oil sector plan,
lack of an approved cereals market law (which blocked cereals sector deregulation), lack of a new
foreign trade law (which compromised progress on agricultural import liberalization), and delay in
deregulation of the sugar sector.3' In June 1991, the Department considered a waiver of the original
conditions, on the grounds that fourteen out of seventeen of the original conditions had been met and
the Government's expressed intention to continue reforms of bread wheat, sugar, and edible oils.
Later this idea was dropped.32 By the fall of 1991, however, pressure from the Government was
successful in bringing about a compromise resolution. A plan for the deregulation of the edible oils
sector was drafted that satisfied all parties concerned, and the third tranche of ASAL-2 was made
2 According to the files, the Government wished to use the second tranche for debt reduction purposes.
Variable levies were applied only to cereals in the past because this was permitted under the law governing ONICL.
Bank and Govermment naivete regarding the magnitude of this task is reflected in the following March 1989 supervision report
statement: 'MARA's position is that revising the legal texts is a matter of weeks...' Whie a draft foreign trade law was available for Bank
inspection by mid-1989, this process, as of end 1993, is still not complete: Implementation legislation was finalized during the summer of
1993, but much of it has not yet taken effect.
X Progress was made in continued liberalizanon of agricultural imports, complete liberalization of fertilizer pricing and distribution as
of July 1990, parti  liberalization in the edible oils sector (elimination of subsidy on oils packaging, freeze on oilseed producer prices,
beginning of elimnation of governmental arrears in the edible oils sector), elimination of virtually all arrears in the cereals sector, a draft
cereals market law before government, and partial liberalization in the sugar sector (introduction of a unique refining margin, progress in
reducing arrears, limited increases in producer pnces, continued discussion regarding reference pnces and deregulation).
S' supervision report of November 6, 1990.
a An internal memorandum states: 'At present. [justification for the waiver is weak]. If we believe these reforms were and remain
important (and those three subsectors clearly are important), then we should obtain, for the tanche release, something more substantial than
what is proposed." June 6, 1991.



- 11 -
available to the Government on November 27, 1991. Disbursements were accelerated in order for the
loan to close by the April 1, 1992 closure date.
Administration of ASAL-2
Disbursements
31.    Disbursements under the loan began late, because of the above-mentioned delays in
negotiations and effectiveness. A special dollar account was set up by the Borrower to accommodate
deposits and payments related to the operation. As the table below shows, the loan was used to fund
the importation of agricultural inputs, especially machinery for production and petroleum products.
The total value was thought to meet the need for such imports over a period of two or three years.
Up to $25 million of the loan was made available retroactively for purchases made prior to the loan
agreement, provided they were made after January 1, 1987.
Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Original              Actual               Actual Disburs.l
Limits       Disbursements                Original Limits
Agricultural Machinery               100.00                91.10                        91.1%
Seeds and Seedlings                   25.00                34.90                       139.6%
Agricultural Chemicals                20.00                21.00                       105.0%
Feeds & Vet. Medicines                23.75                21.70                        91.4%
Petroleum Products                    56.25                56.25                       100.0%
TOTAL                                225.00               225.00                       100.0%
32.    Contracts were to be awarded through competitive bidding, except for contracts valued at less
than $2 million, in which case the contract could be awarded to the best of at least three price
quotations. If the purchaser was a non-public entity, all contracts expected to equal less than $5
million could be determined by existing procedures. Furthermore, it was agreed that the GOM could
follow existing contracting procedures for petroleum and machinery purchases, even though these
procedures did not involve competitive bidding.33 However, the loan did not allow for the
importation of fertilizers, precisely because the GOM did not agree to international competitive
bidding procedures, an issue that arose during ASAL-1. The loan agreement specified that the total
value of petroleum imports could not exceed $56.25 million, or 25% of the total value of the loan.
Co-Financing
33.    The African Development Bank, which had also participated in ASAL-1, contributed an
additional $150 million to the GOM in tandem with ASAL-2.
" Memorandum dated December 17, 1987 acknowledges that, although common practice, accepting existing govemmenml importing
procedures is less than ideal.



- 12 -
Reporting Requirements
34.    According to covenants listed in the loan agreement,4 the Borrower was required to furnish
the Bank with a number of regular reports. From time to time, the Borrower and the Bank were to
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program (including compliance with
conditionality actions). Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower was required to furnish
to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Prograrn. Two such reports were prepared and submitted.35 The Borrower was also required to
maintain records and accounts consistent with sound accounting practices, with audit reports to be
furnished to the Bank. The first audit report, covering disbursements during the 1990 calendar year,
was received in July 1991. Subsequent reports have still not been received despite numerous
reminders by the Bank, although delays in the receipt of audit reports are not a rare occurrence for
the Bank in Morocco.
Follow-on Operations
35.    The follow-on operation to the ASAL-2 was an Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (Loan
No. 3403-MOR). Under the ASIL, $50 million were approved in direct support of MARA's
investment activities. The ASIL is not an adjustment operation and focus primarily on reforms
related to execution of the investment budget. Its successor, the ASIL-2 (which is currently under
preparation), will provide additional support for MARA's investment programn but will also support
an action program to further the subsector reform process begun under the ASALs.
IMpact of ASAL-2
36.    The impact of any single Bank operation is clearly hard to disentangle from those of other
operations, within the agricultural sector and without. Attributing aspects of agricultural sector
evolution to ASAL-2 in the absence of a testable counterfactual is also problematic. Furthermore,
even disengaging the effects of more hospitable climatic conditions evidenced at the end of the 1980s
compared with more drought-prone conditions at the beginning of the decade from policy effects is a
task which has proven difficult for cereals supply function modelers in Morocco. Finally, many of
the most significant reforms prepared by ASAL-2 have yet to go into effect, let alone have a chance
to affect the Moroccan economy, i.e., elimination of the consumer subsidy on bread wheat flour and
concomitant complete deregulation of the cereals sector, deregulation of the sugar subsector, and
deregulation of the edible oils sector. Border pricing policies for sugar, oils, meat, and milk were
just negotiated last year under SAL-2, to be implemented for the first time by June 1994 (paras. 65-
66). Thus, an assessment of the efficiency of these sectors' operations post-ASAL-2 is still
premature. These caveats aside, however, some general observations about the evolution of
Morocco's agricultural sector during the ASAL-2 period are presented, along with some specific
features which are more directly attributable to ASAL-2.
37.     The potential effects of agricultural sector liberalization are many. As a sector moves from
a phase during which all aspects of production, marketing, and processing are managed to a
' See Aricle III of the Loan Agreement (Loan No. 2885-MOR) between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, December 4, 1987.
" MARA, 'Rapport d'ex6cution n I' (Jum 1989) and MARA, 'Rapport d'ex6cution n 2' (Septembre 1990).



- 13 -
significant extent by administrative directive within a fairly distorted prices and incentives framework
to a phase in which market forces and prices are increasingly relied on to allocate resources within
and across activities, one expects to see changes in protection patterns and therefore changes in
production, marketing, and trade patterns. As the sector becomes more dynamic, one would expect
to see private capital drawn into the sector, not just replacing public capital, but supplementing it. As
international trade into and out of a country moves from parastatal agency domination to private
sector initiative, it is expected that a country's trade profile will evolve, both in terms of what is
traded and with whom. As the Government reduces subsidies to producers for agricultural inputs and
to consumers for basic foodstuffs, one would expect to see a positive effect on the Government budget
burden, as well as an effect on consumption patterns. Finally, as the ability of an agency to
manipulate information in meaningful, analytic ways is enhanced, one would expect to see an
improvement in the level of analysis produced by that agency, and some effect on its stature both
within Government and vis-a-vis external partners. Not all of these effects are measurable in
Morocco today, either due to reasons mentioned above or because the data are not available to do so.
However, an attempt at quantification of some of these indicators is presented below.
General Agricultural Sector Growth Patterns
38.    During the course of MTASAP (1985-90) the agricultural sector in Morocco grew by 4.9%
per year, as measured by the real agricultural GDP for the country , compared with 3.8% real GDP
growth overall. Nonetheless, over a longer period, other sectors have outperformed agriculture, as is
normal, and the sector now represents 17% of GDP, down from 23%  in the early 1970s.
Protection Patterns
39.    Protection of cereals and oilseeds commodities significantly increased during the ASAL-2
period, while overprotection of sugar crops abated somewhat, according to the Government's own
prices and incentives studies, which monitor these trends.6 Nominal protection coefficients for
cereals averaged about 0.9 in 1984, 1.00 in 1988, and 1.10 in 1989. Sunflower producers were taxed
in 1984 (NPC = 0.80), and protected in 1988 (NPC = 1.48). Moroccan sugar crop producers were
highly protected in 1984 (over 350%),37 but by 1988, NPCs had fallen somewhat.
40.    The latest prices for bread wheat and sunflower clearly show that the rate of nominal
protection for these commodities is even higher today than it was in 1988. The NPCs for bread
wheat continued to rise to 1.85 in 1991 before falling slightly to 1.66 in 1992. Domestic prices for
bread wheat also exceed the reference prices that would result from the formula agreed on under the
loan, due to application of the safeguard clause (see figure below). NPCs for sunflower have
increased steadily, reaching 1.99 in 1992. Actual values are shown in Part HI.
I See MARA/AIRD/Agro Concept, Etude de la politiue de orix et d'incitatons dans le secteur asricole. Dhase nI. Rarmort Princip
(January 1990), for protecoon coefficients based on 1988 prices, with reference to the original estimates, based on 1984 prices. See
MARA/DPAE, Service des Etudes Econorniques March6s et Prix, Bureau d'Analyse des Politiques Agricoles, Etude de la volitigue de orix
et d'incitanons dans le secteur agnicole. phase III. Cereales (June 1990), for coefficients based on 1989 prices.
" Due to the fact that the 1984 international sugar price was just over 5 cents per pound, the original prices and incentives study took
an average price, in 1983 dollars, of the 1981 through 1984 prices.



- 14  -
CEREALS PRICES                     41.    Prices for inputs clearly increased over the
260C                                           loan period, both for tradables, as well as for
240                                            domestic factors of production, bringing them much
220 -                                          closer to their opportunity costs. The minimum
200-                                    W      agricultural wage, used as a proxy for actual wages
ia 0                                            paid in the prices and incentives study, rose 85%
between 1984 and 1991, while the consumer and
120-                                           wholesale price indices over the same period rose
,0oo                                           by only 36%  (to 1990). Fertilizer prices, in most
.-   .I._._._. _._._.             .        cases, doubled between 1984 and 1992 (e.g., urea,
oo0'70  IQAI  la.w  14a  lae*T  is..  a'a     up 103%; ammonium nitrate, up 69%; TSP, up
*  Reference                      129%; potassium chloride, up 141 %).
+ Producer
* World, CIF
Investments
42.    Investments in the agricultural sector grew by almost 10% per year in nominal terms
(approximately four percent p.a. in real terms) from 1981 to 1991, with private sector performance
far outpacing that of the public sector. While the latter outspent the former in 1981 by a margin of
almost 3: 1, those orders of magnitude were completely reversed eleven years later, with the private
sector outspending the public sector by better than 2: 1. Private sector sources of capital in Moroccan
agriculture accounted for more than half of total investments as MTASAP was just getting off the
ground.3'
Government Budget
42.    Public expenditure targets. Under ASAL-1, a core program of priority public investments in
agriculture was identified. 15% of the total GOM investment budget was to be allocated to MARA in
1987/88; "sufficient" or "adequate" levels were to be maintained thereafter. In fact, the percentage of
total budget appropriations to MARA's investment budget never amounted to more than 14% during
the period 1986-1990 (11.7% in 1987; 12.9% in 1990). Details are presented in Part III.
43.    One of the MTASAP objectives was to put greater emphasis on public investment operations
for rainfed agricultural development, small-and-medium scale irrigation and forest development. The
evolution of MARA's investment budget allocations from 1984 to 1992 is shown in Part mI. In fact,
the allocation to these subsectors varied extremely little over that period. The share of the budget
allocated to irrigation stayed roughly constant at just over 50%. Likewise, the share of irrigation
investment going to large-scale schemes stayed steady at about 80%,3 and as a share of the total
budget, the part going to forestry and land consolidation remained at around nine percent. It is
' Actual figures rre presented in Part m.
Large-scale irrigation here refes to the amount budgeted for the ORMVA which include a smnall amount of small-scale irrigation
and rminfed developmem activitiee. Small-scale irrigation here is the amount budgeted for the DER which also includes a small amount of
administrative expenditure. for both small and large-scale irrigation.



- 15 -
perhaps overly optimistic to believe that a sector loan can really influence budgetary allocations across
and within sectors in Morocco.
44.    The burden of subsidies eased during the course of the 1980s. Producer (fertilizer, irrigation
operation and maintenance and capital, agricultural credit) and consumer (sugar, edible oils, dairy
products, wheat flour) subsidies peaked in 1975 at 6.2% of GDP, due to the boom in international
prices (producer subsidies equalled 2.4% of GDP, while consumer subsidies were 3.8% of GDP).'4
By the early 1980s, these ratios had abated somewhat, to 2.2% of GDP for the four producer
subsidies indicated above and 2.0% of GDP for consumer subsidies. From 1985 to 1989, the impact
of consumer subsidies relative to GDP had been halved, to but 1.0% of GDP (average).4' In
addition, fertilizer subsidies were eliminated by 1990 and irrigation cost recovery was improved
considerably (see paras. 54-55).
Subsector Deregulation
45.    The overall philosophy of ASAL-2 was to reduce the degree of Government intervention in
the workings of the commodity fili&res, or subsectors, by instituting border policies to guarantee
adequate protection at levels comparable to those enjoyed in the industrial sector and disengaging the
Government from direct interference in domestic market operations. Many aspects of the workings of
the cereals, sugar, oilseeds, meat, and milk sectors were thus targeted for reform under MTASAP.
Some of these were covered by the deregulation plans submitted to the Bank but were never
implemented, some were never tackled at all. To some extent, an evaluation of actual
accomplishments under MTASAP suffers in ex-poste analysis due to the discrepancy between the
broad-sweeping actions (both tranche release conditions and the medium-term, or "wish list," actions)
listed in the policy reform matrix of ASAL-2's President's Report and the actual, narrowly defined
conditions for tranche release as defined in the loan agreement (see the tables in Part E). An
inventory of changes that were actually introduced in each sector, compared with the overall
objectives expressed in the PR, is presented below.
46.    Cereals. Under MTASAP, the Government's objectives in the cereals sector were 1) to
improve incentives to the grain sector (harmonizing protection rates with those in other sectors) by
ensuring floor producer prices close to world market price trends,42 2) to introduce more dynamism
in the grain marketing system and use external trade as the major regulation and stabilization
instrument of the grain markets by eliminating the state's import monopoly and replace quotas with
tariff barriers consistent with production incentives, 3) to increase the efficiency of the grain
marketing system to reduce unit costs between farm and consumer and encourage on-farm and
intermediate storage by deregulating grain marketing and price formation mechanisms, and 4) to
improve the consistency between food and agricultural policies for grain, eliminating the negative
impact of the consumer flour subsidy on production and reducing the budgetary costs of the dual
4 See A. Hasan Tuluy and B. Lynn Salinger, Trade. Exchange rate, and Aericultural Pricins Policies in Morocco (World Bank, 1989),
pp. 106-108, for the penod 1960 to 1984.
'' International Monectay Fund, 'Morocco - Recent Economic Developments," March 5. 1991, Appendix VII.
42 The preoccupation at the time was to bring producer prices up, to correct for effective taxation of the cereals sector.



- 16 -
pricing system.43  These reforms were to be implemented in phases: durum, barley, and maize
would be deregulated first, while deregulation of the bread wheat sector would have to await the
elimination of the consumer subsidy.'  It was expected that the flour subsidy would be eliminated
by 1990, according to the PR's list of medium-term actions to be taken.
47.    The Government ostensibly disengaged itself from all aspects of domestic producer price
setting and marketing regulation for durum wheat, barley, and maize. Minimum support prices no
longer exist as the Government makes no pretense of procuring these grains, and marketing,
processing and storage regulations are no longer enforced. International trade in these three
commodities is also supposed to have been liberalized; according to the PR, the Government was to
have adopted "free external trade for maize, hard wheat and barley with tariff barriers set at levels
which encourage production." However, international traders are still required to obtain Government
approval (ONICL and MARA) before importing (or presumably exporting, though that issue has not
yet arisen) these grains.45 The 1992 External Trade Law will take effect for cereals by mid-1994
and should finally eliminate all such requirements. For animal feeds, variable (in the case of maize)
and fixed (in the case of durum and barley, the actual amount is adjusted periodically) levies are
applied to the C+F price at the border. These border policies are still in a state of flux, however, as
the Government experiments with policy definitions, introducing yet another element of risk into
traders' planning.
48.    The Government also significantly reduced the amount paid out in consumer subsidies
although the medium-term goal of complete consumer flour subsidy elimination has not been
achieved. Luxury flour has been eliminated from the subsidy program, and production and marketing
are supposedly now deregulated. However, "moderation accords" are still negotiated between the
Government and members of the milling and baking profession to establish ceiling prices for luxury
flour and basic breads. Ten million quintals of subsidized bread wheat flour are still produced
annually by Morocco's bread wheat flour mills. According to the Government, the continued
existence of the flour subsidy justifies the persistence of a range of interventions in the bread wheat
sector. Its is regulated by quotas, which are distributed according to estimates of consumer demand
from each flour mill.
49.    A program of targeted interventions (food-for-work programs, school feeding programs, and
an anti-malnutrition campaign) designed to "compensate" 2 million vulnerable households for the
elimination of the subsidy was supported by both USAID and the World Food Program and ran its
course until 1992, despite the continued existence of the flour subsidy.
50.    A program to strengthen ONICL's capabilities was also to be implemented by 3rd tranche
release. Had the policy environment been ready for 3rd tranche release within two years of the actual
date of loan effectiveness as planned, the delay in the start of the Cereals Market Reform Project
" See the ASAL-2 PR, Annex V.
The linkage between the flour subsidy and the targeted compensatory program (in 1987) and, later, the entire subsector reform have
always been insisted on by the Government. Untl elimination of the former, notbing, it was argued, could be done on the latter.
" With regard to this action, the Government's Rappon d'ex6cution of September 1990 states: *The system of quantitaive restrictions
for durum, maize and barley has been eliminated, with nonetheless administrative intervention by ONICL." (p. 3, emphasis added) This is
not exactly the same as elimination of all barriers, replaced only by tariff protection, as stated in the PR.



- 17 -
(CMRP) due to internal USAID constraints would have been problematic. As it turned out, in this
particular instance, the third tranche release was delayed for other reasons and the arrival of CMRP's
long-term resident advisor in July 1991 did not hold up the release.
51.    Sugar. The Government's objectives in the sugar sector were 1) to improve the efficiency of
the sector while pursuing the objective of self-sufficiency under economic conditions, and 2) to reduce
the financial and economic costs of sugar production. While the letter of the individual tranche
release conditions was met, the medium-term goals of restricting further expansion of sugar
production to the most efficient regions and achieving complete deregulation of the sector are still in
the process of being achieved. PERL-2 was to have continued to support this activity after ASAL-2.
Dropping it from the lending program at the end of 1991, however, left this aspect of the reform
without an on-going advocate. As described below in para. 65, SAL-2 picked up on border pricing
policy reform for sugar, as well as on certain reforms related to domestic market deregulation in the
subsector.
52.    Edible oils and oil crops. Again, objectives in this sector were originally defined under a
scenario of net effective taxation of the sector. Thus, Government sought 1) to improve incentives to
oilseed production, as well as 2) to increase efficiency within the sector by using external trade to
stabilize and regulate the markets, and 3) to increase the efficiency of the sector in order to reduce
unit costs between farm and consumer. Since the loan was prepared, producer protection for oil
seeds has been increased substantially. As with the sugar subsector, structural reform efforts are still
on-going.
53.    Livestock products: milk and meat. The Government sought an improvement in the efficiency
of feed resource use in the livestock sector as well as the development of a national dairy processing
industry capable of absorbing the totality of milk production marketed throughout the year under
economically viable conditions. The specific conditions listed in the ASAL-2 loan agreement were all
met. New administrative formulae for the setting of feed prices (bran, dried sugar beet pulp) have
been set according to ASAL-2 guidelines. The producer price of milk produced during the lean
period relative to that in the peak period was raised to a level exceeding the ASAL-2 guidelines.
Privatization of artificial insemination and veterinary stations occurred ahead of schedule. Free trade
in milk and meat will be permitted, by mid-1994 subject to the application of ad valorem duties and
tariff equivalents.
54.   Invuts. The M'LASAP outlined a number of objectives regarding fertilizer, seeds, and
irrigation water, including 1) improvement of input distribution systems, 2) the encouragement of
private and cooperative sector participation in input marketing and storage, and 3) the elimination of
distortions within the agricultural sector caused by input subsidies. All conditions set out under
ASAL-2 were met, including some of the medium-term objectives (complete deregulation of fertilizer
marketing and complete elimination of fertilizer subsidies by July 1990).
55.    Regarding irrigation cost recovery, dated covenants for tranche release were no longer
enforceable as compliance could only be supervised during the course of the operation which was
delayed. Nonetheless, Bank staff reported that cost recovery was impressive even if it did not meet
the actual targets specified for calendar years 1987 and 1988. Achieving full O&M cost recovery
through water charges was a primary objective of the first Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
(LSII - Loan 2656-MOR) and the overall O&M collection rate is estimated to have risen from 74% in
1991 to 79% in 1992. Under the subsequent project, LSII-2 (Loan 3587-MOR), the level of water



- 18 -
charges will be further increased so that a volumetric charge covers the entire estimated true O&M
costs and a share of investment and depreciation costs.
56.    Other actions monitored under ASAL-2 include 1) the streamlining and restructuring of the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INRA): discussions with the Government on this topic led to
the preparation of the Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan No. 3036-MOR); 2)
implementation of a training and visitation extension system, which was applied on a pilot basis in 28
extension centers; 3) modernization of seed multiplication activities and transfer of such to the
National Seed Marketing Company and the private sector: the Government, having determined that
legislation establishing seed security stocks was not required, cut certified seed subsidies cut in half in
1990-91, and eliminated them in 1991-92; 4) forestry sector: the Government sought to attain
effective self-sufficiency in industrial wood and partial sufficiency of fuel wood and forage
requirements, and therefore developed a policy package to decrease illegal cuttings, increase natural
forest regeneration, improve forest rangeland management, also a study on wood products and
marketing prospects was completed under ASAL-2, with a follow-on activity being the preparation of
the Second Forestry Project (Loan No. 3156-MOR); 5) land policy reforms: activities accomplished
in this area included the preparation of cadastral mapping, land registration, a titling program, and
land consolidation programs; 6) promotion of agro-industrial exports: a study on existing contractual
relationships and forms of organization in the agro-industrial sector was carried out by MARA to
address problem of uncertainty in the supply of agricultural raw materials; as a follow-on activity,
USAID funded the Morocco Agribusiness Promotion Project; 7) regarding the reinforcement of
economic policy analysis capability of MARA/DPAE, a number of studies were carried out by DPAE
including the second and third Agricultural Prices and Incentives Studies, a multi-market
(cereals/livestock) model, a national accounting study for agricultural sector, several linear
programming models for selected ORMVAs, supply and demand function estimates for main
agricultural commnodities, and both national and regional cereals cost of production surveys; in
addition, a computerized budget system was implemented in DPAE for all of MARA; 27 trainees
from DPAE were sent to the U.S. for long-term graduate economics study (M.A. and Ph.D. levels).
Institutional Reforms
57.    As a result of the MTASAP, staff management in Morocco's Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform and its Economic Affairs and Planning Directorate (DPAE); have become much
more skillful in their defense of Moroccan producer interests, both within the Government and vis-a-
vis external partners. The MARA officials who have weathered these last nine years of adjustment
discussions, and there are a good number who have been present throughout the process,' have
greatly honed their ability to apply the standards tools of economic analysis in order to win sometimes
economic, sometimes political, concessions vis-a-vis their opponents.
58.    One example thereof is the Agricultural Development Fund (FDA), financed by trade tax
receipts levied on the five strategic agricultural food groups (cereals, sugar, oils, meat, milk) to the
extent that their consumption is not subsidized. This fund is controlled primarily by the DPAE,
providing credits for a number of programs. There is no other example in Morocco of a ministry
with its own extra-budget source of revenues for funding its own programs. As international prices
" Unlike the Bank, which has seen sevecal generations of technicians take up the reins of debate.



- 19 -
continue their decline and the safeguard clause continues to maintain relatively high domestic prices,
FDA is becoming a noticeable force within the GOM.
59.    Another example is the particularly active role Morocco has played in the Uruguay Round
negotiations. Morocco, which only joined GATT in 1987, was the first developing country to
volunteer to submit its trade policies for review under the GATT's recently initiated Trade Policy
Review Mechanism.47 Both MARA and the Ministry of Foreign Trade have been particularly active
in this arena.
60.    Such successes are testimony, in part, to the emphasis put on economic training at the very
beginning of the MTASAP. This is not to say that MARA/DPAE's apprenticeship in economic
analysis has been brought to conclusion. Many of the DPAE staff who were sent to the U.S. for
formal training are just now returning to Morocco, only to find venues for using their new skills are
quite limited, due to the strained capacity of top management. Reorganization of the DPAE and the
recruitment of some new lieutenants with stronger economic skills might help top management more
profitably harvest the still raw talents of its improved staff.
Conclusions
Achievements
61.    Despite the numerous implementation delays, there was substantial progress under the loan.
While care must be given in interpreting their cause, it is clear that many positive results were
achieved: over the MTASAP period from 1985-90, real growth in the sector was above that of
overall GDP (4.9% p.a. compared to 3.8% p.a. for the overall economy); prices for almost all inputs
were raised, bringing them significantly closer to their opportunity costs and reducing fiscal costs to
the Government; subsidies were reduced on consumer goods with a concomitant introduction of
targeted interventions for the poor; water charges were raised, improving irrigation cost recovery; and
the deregulation of individual subsectors was begun. Finally, the Ministry of Agriculture was
significantly strengthened and its capacity for policy analysis considerably improved.
Economic Issues
62.    The most critical unresolved economic issue at the end of ASAL-2 remains that of comnrnodity
pricing. Morocco has conformed to the letter of the ASAL-2 conditions in its conversion to price-
setting formulae which take international reference prices as their starting point. However, the spirit
of ASAL-2 - at least when interpreted in a short-to-medium term sense - is directly violated by the
imposition of the safeguard clause for cereals which allows domestic prices to be maintained at their
past real levels, until such time as multilateral trade negotiations result in undistorted international
prices for agricultural commodities. In taking the lead on this issue, Morocco has, in effect, pointed
out the irony of pretending as if "an" international price exists for a commodity. In a world where
exporting countries compete amongst each other for shares of strategic foreign markets, offering
discounts of $30-35 per ton against an average quoted FOB Gulf price of $150 per ton, what is "an
international reference price"? How distorted are FOB prices compared with actual costs of
47 See GATT. Trade Policy Review: The Kingdom of Morocco 1989 (Geneva, 1990).



- 20 -
production in the most productive economies? Research will be carried out in MNIAG as part of
ASIL-2 preparation to explore further some of these nuances.
63.     Already at the time of the Bank review of ASAL-2's Initiating Memorandum, the Bank's then
Senior Vice-President for Operations warned of the lack of clarity in pricing objectives and
mechanisms. While it was acknowledged then that Bank acceptance of continued administrative price
setting would be problematic, the compromise in favor of setting floor support prices rather than
moving directly toward import tariffs was upheld.4
64.     It should be pointed out that the Government's commitment to this formula did not last long
for some commodities in any case. Although the Government initially presented international
reference price formulae to be used for the setting of domestic prices for bread wheat, durum, barley,
maize, and oilseeds, after satisfying the effectiveness condition it went ahead and introduced different
border measures than the agreed-upon moving price formula to regulate border prices for durum,
barley, and maize.49
65.     Border pricing policies for sugar crops, oilseeds, vegetable oils, oilseed cakes, meats, and
milk have been revisited under SAL-2. Reference prices based on moving average formulae will be
introduced by mid-1994 for sugar, oilseeds and their derivatives. Tariff equivalents will be
implemented for meat, milk and their derivatives at the same time.
66.     Whatever the outcome of the clause de sauvegarde debate in Morocco, and it is still on-
going,' Moroccan policy makers clearly do refer to the evolution of international prices now as they
define domestic producer prices. And like policy makers in many other parts of the world, they have
instituted sometimes hefty rates of protection for the benefit of domestic producers in defense against
what are perceived to be abnormally low international prices due to subsidy policies in exporting
countries. Policy makers in Morocco are aware of the short-run economic opportunity costs of
maintaining higher domestic prices, but cite concerns about longer-run inplications for rural-urban
migration and domestic political stability in the event that agricultural incentives are allowed to
deteriorate. They also argue that until the final pronouncements of the GATT's Uruguay Round have
been made, it is premature to reform  Morocco's own agricultural trade policies. Given the necessity
' The OED audit of the Tunisia ASAL I cites an internal Bank critique which might have been wrintten for the Morocco ASAL-2 case
as well: Liberalization [in this case, as opposed to the classical definition of moving toward market determination of prices] means 'altering
the manner by which prices are bureaucratically set and administered.' (p. 5).
V When the Government liberalized domestic marketing for durum, barley, and maize, it ceased fixing producer pnces, and therefore
was no longer obliged to adhere to the formula. Nevertheless, the Government continued to intervene at the border in the case of these
dtree cereals. According to the Cereals Market Reform Project (PRCC, in French), the entry price for maize is maintained at 188
DH/quintal (the domestic pnce is monitored on a regular basis at the largest domestic wholesale market in Casablanca in order to justify that
threshold) by levying the difference between the actual CIF price and 188. For dunim and barley, fixed levy amounts are set on a penodic
basis (approximately quartely). The end goal of both mechanisms is to maintain constant nominal, if not real, domestic prices for these
grains, which is the stated objective of the safeguard clause. However, neither mechanism was formerly established under ASAL-2. See
MARAJPRCC, Grouve C: Commerce Exteneur. Ramoort de la Premiere Phase (Aprl 1992).
'0 The Bank has broached with its Moroccan counterparts the possibility of re-opening the safeguard clause discussion in the context of
ASIL-2, currently under preparation.



-21 -
of minimizing the Governmental budget imnpact of such protectionism, policy makers are also aware
that this means higher consumer prices for basic food stuffs.5'
Lessons Learned
67.    After nine adjustment operations in eight years (1984-1992), Morocco is in an entirely
different position than it was in the early 1980s during its economic crisis. Its economy is growing
(real GDP growth of 4.1% per year during 1984-1990), its agricultural sector is experiencing
renewed dynamism, and its policy makers are much more savvy with regard to economic phenomena
and economic policy reform dialogue. There is, however, an aura of "adjustment fatigue" expressed
on the part of both Bank and MARA staff, as public and private sector alike look forward to renewed
investments and growth, after years of focus on reform.
68.    One clear lesson from the ASAL-2 experience is that the Bank must be more careful in its
definition of policy conditions in the loan agreement and during negotiations. The ASAL-2 tale is one
of mixed messages stemming from inconsistencies between the President's Report for ASAL-2, the
overall MTASAP design, conditions defined in the loan agreement, and dated promises made during
negotiations. While it is difficult to predict implementation delays, it might be more useful to avoid
calendar-specific obligations in defining conditions and obligations. A related lesson is the need to
hold firm on important conditions at negotiations, and to not be too willing to tinker with a coherent
package for the sake of expediency. Many of the mixed messages arose from just such tinkering, and
so did many of the concessions that have impeded effective implementation of the intended reforms.
69.    Another lesson, which is clear from the experience of many adjustment operations in Morocco
and elsewhere, is that the process of reform is a long one, one which can not easily be scheduled to
suit the confines of a two-, four-, or even eight-year operation. The more broadly defined MTASAP,
of course, is predicated on this notion. In retrospect, however, even a medium-term (i.e. five-year)
operation may be overly short-sighted. Thus, that ASAL-2 might be assessed by some, in retrospect,
as overly ambitious or comprehensive in scope, is unfair. The difficulties ASAL-2 encountered in
implementation were predictable. That so much of the substance of the ASAL-2 program (the bread
wheat, sugar, and edible oils) remains incomplete is as much the result of the Bank having hailed the
end of structural adjustment in Morocco52 as it is of constraints on the Moroccan side of the
program. Indications are, however, that the Bank has not dropped its support for the program. The
supervision of agricultural sector policy reform in Morocco may now be taken over under ASIL-2,
guaranteeing some measure of sustainability into the mid-1990s for the MTASAP objectives.
70.    Finally, experience with this loan has shown that intersectoral operations do not have clear
constituents and "owners." In their absence, complicated loans such as the ASAL 2 are not likely to
achieve all of their abjectives.
' For a presentation of single market welfare analyses of these policies, see B. Lynn Salinger and Jeffrey C. Metzel, L'evolution de la
oolitcue commerciale anricole au Maroc: Examnen de l'impact des prix de reference (Cambridge, MA: Associates for Internanonal
Resources and Development, February 1993).
n A pronouncement made by senior Bank management at a press conference in Morocco, and widely publicized.



- 22 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
a)    Confirmation of factual data contained in Part III
Data contained in Part III coincide as a whole with data available in Morocco, except for
some figures.
Reference Prices (page 34)
The reference price methodology used, is incomplete for three main reasons:
-     handling charges are missing in the reference price structure for three of the products
under study: bread wheat, unrefined sugar and sunflower seeds;
-     the safeguard clause has not been used for computing these products' reference prices;
-     the polarity factor should not appear in the reference price structure of unrefined
sugar.
b)     Remarks on the Analysis contained in Part I
All ministries of the Moroccan Government concerned with the ASAL project have monitored
the evolution of ASAL II with great interest, having actively participated in the discussions related to
the measures envisaged by the Loan Agreement.
Some analyses must be reformulated, among them:
-     Para. 3 (in the Summary):
This paragraph should be nuanced inasmuch as the slow progress of deregulation for some
strategic commodities (cereals, sugar, oilseeds) is not only due to pressure groups, but is mainly the
result of the international situation (persistence of production and marketing subsidies in large
producer countries), and the internal social and economic context (drought, fight against rural
exodus,...).
-     Para. 4:
Change the phrasing of "... food riots" to "... incidents".
-     Para. 22:
This paragraph needs to be changed by eliminating the word "disillusionment", and should be
reformulated taking into account that:
"If the debate period was long, it is because the Moroccan Government considered that the
measures to be taken concemed important sectors and had significant consequences for a major part
of the population".



.23 -
-      Para. 35:
This paragraph should be reformulated as follows. "After two adjustment loans supporting
Morocco's balance ... and in order to promote and support efforts made during this structural
adjustment period, an Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (Loan 3403-MOR) has been granted to
Morocco. Under ASIL .........
-      Page 17. para 39:
The cereals protection level has not really experienced major variations. To this effect it can
be said that cereals were neither taxed nor protected during the ASAL I and II period, the nominal
protection coefficient is very close to one.
-      Paee 21. para 50:
It should be noted that tariff barriers are not changing continuously, but this is a transition
phase of adaptation to the variable levies applied by ONICL.
-      Page 26. para 56:
This paragraph should be revised as Morocco never questioned its deregulation commitments.
As long as international prices were not real, Morocco has tried to limit the negative effects of these
prices on national producers.
c)     Bank's Performance during Proiect Implementation
During the implementation of the adjustment program, the Bank understood the difficulties in
implementing certain measures because of their multi-sector characteristics and the necessity of
implementing them progressively.
d)     Borrower's performance during Project Implementation
The Moroccan Government did not spare any effort to successfully achieve the adjustment
program (ASAL II). In particular, by implementing all measures advocated in the Loan Agreement,
the Government considers that the ASAL II implementation has been successful as a whole, despite
some delays concerning measures whose implementation falls under the jurisdiction of several
ministries. These are measures which go beyond the agricultural sector and include adjustment at all
levels of the production-consumption chain. Other measures have been constraining for farmers;
accompanying measures, which were to mitigate increases in prices of inputs and services were only
partially achieved.
Principal Lessons Learned:
measures advocated by the adjustmnent program must be gradually implemented
because of the slowness with which the agricultural sector evolves;



- 24 -
during the identification of an adjustment program, it is essential to bring together all
relevant participants, in order to ensure complementarity and comprehensiveness of all
components in the program. In addition, the structural adjustment package should be
applied as a whole, and not only the measures that have a positive effect on the
Government's budget;
before implementing an adjustment program, it is crucial to make an a priori
assessment of the effects of the measures to be undertaken, not only at the macro-
economic level, but also at producer and consumer levels.
e)     Relationship with the Bank during Project Implementation
The relationship with the Bank has been satisfactory during project implementation, the
multitude of missions having actively contributed to the removal of some difficulties related to the
implementation of some measures.



- 25 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
List of Conditons to be Met Prior to Negonanons"
Conditions                        L                            Remarks
1.       Increase flour milling margins to international norms
(about 15 DH/quintal).
2.        Finalize mechanism and timetable for the settlement    Had held up compliance with release of ASAL-1 second
of Government arrears to the milling sector over    tranche.
1987/88.
3.        Start the second phase of the sugar industry study.
4.        Authorize the marketing of low fat milk.
5.        Complete tansfer of cereal seed multiplicanon
activities from INRA to SONACOS and the private
sector.
6.        Finalize work program for the design of targeted
compensatory programs.
7.        Adoption of a program budget by [NRA based on
research priorities.
S.        Identify 40 additional zones for privanzation of
animal health services and 10 zones for the atansfer
of artificial insemination services to the private
sector and cooperatives.
9.        Revise criteria for the closing down of Government-
run ferilizer distribution outlets.
10.      Set up Interministerial Commission for forest
regeneration and management of forestry rangeland.
11.      Prepare a detailed work program for DPAE for
1987-91.
12.      Agree on a miniminm allocation of 15% of total
budgetary appropriations and commitments to
MARA in the 19S7 investment budget.
13.      Finalization by DPAE of TORs of the study on
external trade liberalization in agnculture.
Also mentioned in Bank communication to the Government were obligations regarding the
receipt by the Bank of draft cereals market reform legislation, draft pesticide regulation registration,
and evidence of Government's revised policy regarding special premia for sugar beet and sugar cane
growers.54
n Taken from Annex V, Appendix A, President's Report on the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, Report No. P-4437-
MOR, October 30, 1987.
'A Telex dated March 5, 1987.



- 26 -
List of Legal Conditions"                                                    l
Conditions of Effectiveness                    Date                               Remarks
1.  Aencultural Imports: Prepare and furnish to the       Ist Tranche
Bank a list of all agricultural goods with respect to
which elimination of imnpon licensing requirements
was planned in 1988 along with structure and levels
of customs duties to be applied thereafter.
2.  Cereals: Estblish producer pnces for cereals          Ist Tranche
harvested in 1988 by reference to the international
prices of such cereals.
3.  Cereals: Authorize millers to produce subsidized      Ist Tranche    Compliance with this condition held up effectiveness.
soft wheat flour at an extraction rate of at least 80%.
4.  Cereals: Establish production quotas for such flour   Ist Tranche
in order to meet demnand thereof by targeted
populations.
5.  Anumal Feed: Eliminate all regulatory controls on     Ist Tranche    Compliance with this condition held up effectiveness.
the ex-mill prices, quantites and distribution
channels of wheat bran.
6.  Animal Feed: Establish ex-mill prices for dried       lst Tranche    Compliance with this condition held up effectiveness.
sugar beet pulp on the basis of the production costs
thereof and liberalize the distribution channels of
such.
7.  Sugar: Increase the prices payable by sugar           Ist Tranche
processors for sugar beet and sugar cane from the
levels of such prices for such crops harvested in
1987 by a percentage less than or equal to the lesser
of a) the total rate of inflation during calendar years
1985 and 1986, or b) ten percent.
8.  Suzar: Limit premia, paid by purchasers to sugar      Ist Tranche
beet producers in rainfed zones and cane producers
in the Moulouya ORMVA, to no more than 25 DH/t
of sugar beet and 40 DH/t of sugar cane.
9.  Compensatori Proerams: Prepare and furnish to the     Ist Tranche    Compliance with this condition held up effectiveness.
Bank a plan to ensure adequate nutrition to
Morocco's poorest populations.
10. Animal Health Services: Implement a prgram to         Ist Tranche
ensure the proper delivery within 20 zones of animal
health care services by private veterinarans.
11. Public Expenditures: Prepare an investment budget     I st Tranche
for MARA for CY 1988 which is designed to ensure
the development of Morocco's agncultural sector.
" Effectiveness (i.e. release of Ist tranche), 2nd tranche, and 3rd tranche release conditions taken from Section 4 of the Loan
Agreement (Loan No. 2885-MOR) between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, December 4, 1987.



-27 -
List of Legpl Conditiota
Conditwot of 2ad Trindw Rs                                    Date        I                                Remnks'
I .   Auriclatrs Iimpom   Eliminte all import Iicentmag  rnqutmments as     2nd Trashe         Fulfilled as of February 1969.
per potit I in prevtos table.
2.   AuwWn alu  Imp":ts: Prepare and fumh to the Bark an action plan         2rnd Trasnbe       In Februry 1919, GOM argued dth  complie inpu l  wiheug rmw
with titmeable aud new custnia dui  for the liberalization of trsde                       law authorizing use of variable levy. A iqt this hid  x bec
in all articWultua  godst (intlsuding dboe referred to in pomt I                          aticipated unde ASAL-2, GOM reused doet Bank ctitler the
above).                                                                                   togetr. Also. issue of contplistm witb antscipsed CiATT Urntluy
Rownd recmmendattom. Also, ;OM needed to enmrd  nmw tude-
related regtatm  regarding ammd bcalth restrictsin. In July 1969. ew
tra  law drafted
3.   Cereals: Establish prodxi   prem far cereals hirvesaad in 1989 by       2md Trarncbe       Fulfilled u of Februay 1989.
refereeas the trimnutdnu  pau of such crtals., a per pomtt 2 in
previoKM  table.
4.   Ceralsi  Prpae  nuld ftrnish    the Bask an atoa  plan to esue the      2nd Tranche       As of Febamry I969, prodiem  pres wat  -  kiWr sro for l cerelst
deregulation of the cerels subsector (frtm farm pite   flour mill of                      atva ONICL no longer procuresd tsme  uim ot tie deomac 
domestically produced cere), icluding elitimuntion of a) licenming                        Regarding bread wheat, pcilsuti  r_mnr subseidy on high ezntm
resirementa appicabk to cereals marketing, b) regulatory c*urdvs                          rate flour comlicated further lbeilitme, argud GOM. In JuWy 1969,
an hsAndg, trasprin trul ad    ge cotmmass im    and c)                                   icmrae in coumner price of substiasied bread whet  floar atd
regulaiory restrcuotiu reprdwg the dosesuc surcs frotm whtch                              estiblislhmemt of nuiosal was  mill-by-mill catcs  fer substidied flour.
miller nmy purchme cereals.
5.   Cereals: Autbrite mdler to prodie, in sadition to the floar             2nd Trmathe       AcconqpiLshad by loan effectivensas.
refer d as n poise 3 in previas tabl, flour as Yy emction rate
and celsme all regulatory crolb on db pn  as whicb mdIe
miiy sll flaur other than the subsidtzed floa.
6.   Edible Oils: Hire comWuttus tn prepas a progrsn far the                 2nd Trunche       Conmpliance on leacr of the ctnitismlky. tmwgb nat tr for s Bank
deepglaton of the edible oils subistor.                                                   would have liked. In Febinay 1989, arms d refe    for study
_approved by Bask. In July 1969, satdy unerway.
7.           Inaencre proaun prs fkr sugr baet and sugr cae                  2nd Trusche        Fufilled as of Februnry 1969.
huvesid in 1966 by no mmne th n the rte of nflton durg CY
1967 mimst oe pMnC
S.   Ssr. Maintaia  suppmem     premis referred to n ,poimt 8 in the         2rd TrsEhe        Fulfilled as of Febnrtry.1989.
prevtos table at dtae levels.
9.   Su:  Develop aon ation plan eo emume crlete degulaon sa                 2nd Trascbe       In Felnsry 1989, MARA indcald nth  stro-ndutial rdeem in sugar
ittroved efficiency of the sup  subsiue  by Jum 30, 1993.                                 aector oat of their denn  while MCI _aesd relwJu        as tao   onk  
inue.  l Jaly 1989, still nn prgtst on dtvekmie of pla
10.  Milk. Estatbish a porhic  pce fr cow's mlk pIsd daring the              2nd Trache        Fulfilled as of Februny 1989 in ict, G     inra      rxced 25% pric
196849 lean nlksn  aioto sn a klel which shil bhe tt least equal to                       differeteal.
120-  of the price for milk prodied drng thie 196U peak milking
11.  Fertilizer: Rame the weightd averge pri   of Referene Feurtilze         2nd Tr-4a         In Februry 1989, GOM argud thu any fettilize pr ice wera
by II S ever the werghted averate  of mw  prcs in effect as of                            arrAucd in wvid  cst Pe mid-sea            EarliSt likely due for
Sqep ber 1. 1987.                                                                          anm ie m  at Jam  1969, in ad  9en of 1999  ainhu
campup
12.  Fertilze-: Clkne at let 40% of dte rtail  eirlizer dirnion              2nd Tranche        In February 1989. GOM t d tmt amy cining of fertizer distribution
ceana  ow-md by FERTIA as of Sepetmber I, 1897.                                          owletm assnd  now waod come et mid- o   Earliest liklly date w
asnaunement was Jam 1989, in atdvimae of 199/9 agricadsaal
13.  lfirtiatn Wate: ORMVAst sI colect me ket 75% of the belace              2nd Tranche        Given  ztbe iion  w   dted, and CY hid pased,    ketin e         .robl.
of irritiot waer bib due and payable to threm i CY 1967.                                  Actslly 64% recovey hod been achieved. In additi, ciltim  up
34% pa. and GOM buwet cesntribstion ea ORMVAs down 17% p.a.
1918.
14.  Comers ary Pmrura: Expanion of th isatium  pn             ,             2nd Trutach        Fulfilled a of Februay 1989.
referred to in pami 9 in the prew table.
15.  Aumail Breedinit Services: Pit imo oeration prrinuzted artifical        2nd Trac           Fulfilled as of Fehnnry 1989.
imunmains o stten- m  m  5 mtus.
16.  AuricWlw  Extenriot: Establishnsent d a division wthnm MARA to          2nd Traache        Fulfiled at of Februay 1969.
develop and upiente  agricWnla emmaon ICEtvitzs.
I  The Febnriy and July 1989 dates refer to supcevision mission reports.



- 28 -
List of Legal Condiuons
Conditions of 3rd Tranche Relea                       Date                                 Remawks'
I .  Agncultural Imports: Liberalize imports in accordance with  3rd Tranche    As of October 1990, new foreign trade legislation still not
the acuon plan specified in point I in previous table.                     approved.
2.  Cereals: Establish producer pnces for cereals harvested in  3rd Tranche     Fulfilled as of June 1990.
1990 by reference to the internatonal pnces of such cereals.
as per point 2 in first table.
3.  Cereals: Deregulate marketing system for domestcally-       3rd Tranche     As of October 1990, new cereals market reform legislation sUll
produced cereals, in accordance with the acuon plan                         not approved.
referred to in point 4 of the previous table.
4.  Cereals: Settlinet  of all financial arrars as of Decemnber  3rd Tranche    Fulfilled as of June 1990.
31. 1988 between GOM and soft wheat millers.
5.  Edible Oils: Deregulate the subsector according to the plan  3rd Tranche    As of October 1990, no oilseed setor deregulationplan bad
referred to in point 6 of the previous table.                              been defined.
6.  Sugar: Increase producer pnces for sugar beet and sugar     3rd Tranche     As of June 1990, GOM wanted to raise sugar producer prices
cane harvested in 1989 by no more than the rate of inflaton                 by 5% on basis of increase in CPI.
during CY 1988 minus two percent.
7.  Sugar: Mauttain supplemental premia referred to in point 8  3rd Tranche     Fulfilled as of June 1990.
in the first table at those levels.
8.  Suear: Deregulate the subsector according to the plan       3rd Tranche     Progress slow.
referred to in point 9 of dhe previous table.
9.  Milk: Establish the producer princ for cow's milk produced  3rd Tranche     Fulfilled as of June 1990.
duruing the 1989-90 lean milking season at a level greater
than 120% of the price payable for milk produced during
the 1989 peak milking season.
10. Fertilizer: Raise the weighted average prices of Reference  3rd Tranche     Fulfilled as of June 1990; GOM to announce complete fertiizer
Fertilzers by II % over the weighted average of such prices                sector liberalization within the year.
in effect upon adjusing as referred to in poit I I of the
previous table (or as a;mended, if so warranted, by
fluctuating internatonal ferslizer prices).
11. Fertilizer: Close at least 80% of the retail fertilizer     3rd Tranche     See above.
distribution centeu owned by FERTIMA s of Septumber I,
1987.
12. Irrigation Water: ORMVAs shall collect at last 82% of the   3rd Tranche     Actually 66% recovery had been achieved. In CY 1989,
balance of irrigation water bills due and payable to them in                revenues exceeded charges in irrigation setaor.
CY 1988.
13. Compensatory Protrams: Continued expansion of the           3rd Trnnche     Fulfilled as of June 1990. However, program likely to end
assutanct programs, referred to in point 9 in the first table.              when donors conclude their specific contributions (USAID.
9/90; WFP, 1992).
14. Animal Heath and Breedint Services: Put into operation a    3rd Tranche     Fulfilled as of June 1990.
program to ensure private animal health care in 20
additional zones and private artificial instminanon wrvices
in 10 additional zones.
15. Public Expenditures: Cary out the investment program        3rd Trnnche     GOM budget under drastic pressure, leading to 15% cut across
referred to i  poinlt 1 of the first table.                                the board in all ministry budgets.
16. Public Expenditures: Allocate hfds in MARA's budget for     3rd Tranche     See above.
CY 1989 to ensure the continued development of Morocco's
agncultural sector.
"7 June and October 1990 dates refer to supervision reports.



- 29 -
COMPARISON OF INTERNATIONAL AND MOROCCAN REFERENCE PRICES
INTERNATIONAL FOB PRICES                    REFERENCE PRICES             DOMESTIC PRODUCER PRICES
HARD RED WINTER         RAW   SUNFL               BREAD       RAW   SUNFL               BREAD              SUN?FL
WHEAT #2  SUGAR    SEED                 WHEAT  SUGAR    SEED                  WHEAT                SEED
(S/ton)   (S/ton)   (S/ton)         (DH/ql) (DH/ton) (DH/ql)              (DH/ql)           (DH/ql)
1960                              69
1961                              60
1962                              61
1963                              184
1964                             127
1965                              45
1966                              40
1967                              42
1968                              42
1969                              71
1970                              81                                                                40
1971                              99                                                                43                 64
1972                             160                                                                43                 64
1973                             208                                                                45                 64
1974                             654                                                                60                 74
1975                             449                                                                60                 90
1976                             255                                                                60                130
1977                              179                                                               85                130
1978                              172                                                               85                130
1979                    163      213       330                                                     105                130
1980                    176      632       291                                                     125                185
1981                    177      374       332                        2664                         135                185
1982                    162       186      298                        3562                         140                256
1983                    158       187      269                        4139                         140                270
1984                    153       115      360                166     4879                         150                300
1985                    138       90       286               204      5638                         180                370
1986                    115       133      214               223      6135                         200                410
1987                    114       149      205                188     5525                         200                410
1988                    146      225       276                163     5066                         200                410
1989                    171      282       267                157     5002      510                220                430
1990                    137      277       267                166     5234      499                225                430
1991                    129       198      286                161     5069      468                240                440
1992                    151      200       235                173     5281      471                240                440
1993                                                          177     5052      434
Notes:   International FOB prices:
Hard Red Winter Wheat #2 = FOB U.S. Gulf
Raw Sugar - ISA daily price, FOB Caribbean
Sunflower Seed - Rotterdam, Ex-mill (1979-1990); after 1990, = U.S. Farm Price * 1.20 to adjust to Rotterdam equivalent
Moroccan Reference prices:
Bread wheat - (5-year moving average, FOB (t., to t.,) + S201t freight) * Official exchange rate,, * 1.25 (protection) / 10
Raw sugar - (2 1-year noving avemge, FOB (t.21 to c,) * 1.1042 (freight) * Official exchange ratn, * 1.0738 (polarization
factor) * 1.09 (protection)
Sunflower seed - (10-year moving average, FOB (t. 0 to t,) + S25/t freight) * Official exchange ratc,., * 1.41 (protection factor)
Moroccan Producer vrices: as set by Government; Source = MARA/DPAE



- 30 -
EVOLUTION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTOR INVESTMENTS
IN MOROCCO'S AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
(millions DH)
Public                Private                   Total           % Priv/Total
1981                     1280                     470                    1750                    27%
1982                     1113                     931                   2044                     46%
1983                     1005                    1113                   2118                     53%
1984                     1123                    1142                   2265                     50%
1985                     1280                    2070                   3350                     62%
1986                     1537                    2085                   3622                     58%
1987                     1366                    1945                   3311                     59%
1988                     1246                    2045                   3291                     62%
1989                     1433                    2462                   3895                     63%
1990                     1576                    2569                   4145                     62%
1991                     1540                    3633                   5173                     70%
Growth
per annum                 3.3%                  16.2%                    9.8%
Source: DPAE estimate based on CNCA credits and FDA subsidies.
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND AGRARIAN REFORM:
INVESTMENT BUDGET APPROPRIATIONS
(millions DH)
Year             Agricultural Investment Budget          National Investment Budget   % MARA/Total
1986                       2,440.9                               20,502.7                      11.9%
1987                       2,350.0                                19,924.2                     11.7%
1988                       2,208.2                                16,050.9                     13.8%
1989                       1,840.0                                13,932,4                     13.2%
1990                       1,678.9                                13,012.8                     12.9%
Source: MARA, 'Rapport d'ex6cution n 2, September 1990



-31 -
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND AGRARIAN REFORM: INVESTMENT BUDGETr'
(millions DH)
Item                           1984     1985    1986    1987    1988        1989      1990    1991      1992
Large-scale irrigation         1437     1570     1073      930      759      760       920      919      854
Small-scale irrigation          315      349      312      289      309       190     220       159      264
Subtotal                     1752     1919    1385    1219       1068      950     1140     1078      1118
Livestock services              356      440      183      176      228       134      177      125      144
Rainfed agriculture             435      526      337      310      327      230      311       235      224
Support services:
Research (IRA)                 70       68       65       67       67       60       80       64        78
Extension (DVRA)              162      199       95       98       87       66      100       75       122
Forestry + land conservation    296      318      238      350      240      230      245       180      204
Other                           160      170      138      160       190     171      200       157      198
TOTAL                          3232    3641    2441    2380    2208          1840    2253      1914    2088
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND AGRARIAN REFORM: INVESTMENT BUDGET (%)
Item                           1984    1985      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990          1991     1992
Large-scale irrigation         44%      43%      44%       39%      34%      41%      41%      48%      41%
Small-scale irrigation         10%       10%      13%      12%      14%      10%      10%       8%      12%
Sub-total                      54%      53%      57%       51%     48%       51%      51%      56%      53%
Livestock services              11%      12%       7%       7%      10%       7%       8%       7%       7%
Rainfed agriculture            13%       14%      14%      13%      15%      12%      14%      12%      11%
Support services:
Research                      2%       2%       3%       3%        39%      3%       4%       3%       4%
Extension                     5%       5%       4%       4%       4%        4%       4%       4%       6%
Forestry + landconserv.         9%        9%      10%      15%      11%      13%      11%       9%      10%
Other                           5%        5%       6%       7%       9%       9%       9%       9%       9%
TOTAL                         100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
(millions DH)                  3232    3641    2441    2380    2208          1840    2253    2176    2941
Source: 1984-1990, MARA, 'Rapport d'ex6cution n' 2,- September 1990
1991-1992, DPAE
9 New Invesument Credits.



- 32 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2885-MOR)
LOAN DATA FOR ASAL-2
Amount (US S225M)
As of September 7. 1994
Ori2inal          Disbursed           Canceled              Repaid          Outstandine
Loan No. 2885-MOR                   $225M              S225M                                                       S225M
Ori6inal Dates                         Actual Dates
Initiating Memorandum                                                         June 18, 1986
Appraisal                              June 1986                              October 9-23, 1986
Negotiations                           February 1987                          August 24-September 2, 1987
Board Approval                                                                November 24, 1987
Loan Agreement                                                                December 4, 1987
Effectivenema                          March 4, 1988                          July 26, 1988
2nd Tranche Releas                     May-June 1989                          Januqry 5, 1990
3rd Tranche Release                    May-June 1990                          November27, 1991
Loan Closing                           March 31, 1990                         April 1, 1992
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY87               FY88                FY89                FY90               FY91
(i) Planned                          75                150                 225                 225                225
(ii) Actual                           0                 75                  75                 150                225
(iii) (ii) as a % of (i)            0%                50%                 33%                 67%                100%
NMSSION DATA
Month/            Number              Number                Staff             Date of
Year             of Weeks           of Persons            Weeks              Report
Preparation
Mission                      421 - 5/10/86            3                   9                  27            Aide-Memoire 5/10/86
6/29 - 7/11/86          2                   2                   4            Office Memo 9/15/86
6/86                    1.5                 2                   3            Office Memo 7/3/86
Other (a)                    Fiscal 86 - 87           4.8                14                  67.2
Appraisal
Mission                      10/9 - 10/25/86          2                   4                   8            BTO/Aide-Mdm 11/7/86
Other (a)                    Fiscal 1987              2.2                 9                  19.8
Negotiation
Mission                      8/24 - 9/2/87            1                   4                   4            Office Memo 9/15/87
Other (a)                    Fiscal 87 - 88           2.2                 6                  13.2              -
Supervision I
Mission                      11/9- 11/13/87           1                   1                   1            ETO 11/20/87
12/9 - 12/22/87         2                   2                   4            Sup.Report 2/10/88
2188                    2                   1                   2            BTO 3/7/88
Other (a)                    Fiscal 88                3.7                 6                  22.2              -
Supervision I
Mission                      2/12 - 2/24/89           2                   6                  12            Sup.Report 3/7/89
7/89                    1                   1                    1           BTO 9/2/89
Other (a)                    Fiscal 89                2.7                 5                  13.5              -
Supervision m
Mission                      3/22/90                  0.5                 2                   1                -
6/4 - 6/15/90           2                   3                   6            Sup.Report 7/20/90
6/4 - 6/8/90            1                   2                   2            BTO 6/19/90
Other (a)                    Fiscal 90                1.5                 6                   9                -
Supervision IV
Mission                      9/26 - 10/3/91           1                   1                   1            BTO 10/31/91
3/5 - 3t12t92           1                   1                    1           BTO 4/15/92
Other (a)                    Fiscal 91 - 92           2.7                12                  32.4              -
TOTAL MISSION                                                                                   77
TOTAL NON-MISSION                                                                              177.3
(a) Average time per person



