DocumenLor
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-443 7-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$225.0 MILLION
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
October 30, 1987
This document has a restrided distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1986
Currency Unit      =      Dirham (DH)
US$ 1.00           =      DH 9.05
DHI 1.00           =      US$0..10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVLATIONS
CMV             -    Field Offices in Irrigated Areas
(Centres de Mise en Valeur)
CNCA           -    National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
CP             -    Programme Contract
CT             -    Field Offices in Rainfed Areas
-    (Centres de Travaux)
DER            -    Rural Investment Division
(Division de l'Equipement Rural)
DPA            -    Provincial Department of Agriculture
-    (Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture)
DPAE           -    Division of Planning and Economic Analysis
-    (Division de la Planification et des Affaires Economiques)
DPV            -    Crop Production Division
(Division de la Production Vegetale)
EFF            -    Extended Fund Fr..ility
FERTIMA        -    National Fertilizer Marketing Company
(Soci6t6 Marocaine des Fertilisants)
INRA           -    National Agricultural Research Institute
-    (Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique)
ITPA           -    Industrial & Trade Policy AdjustmenL
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
-    (Appel d'offres international)
MARA           -    Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire)
OCE            -    National Export Company
-    (Office de Commercialisation des Exportations)
OCP            -    National Phosphate Company
-    (Office Cherifien des Phosphates)
ONICL          -    Grain Marketing Board
-    (Office National Interprofessionnel des Cereales
et des Legumineuses)
ORMVAs         -    Regional Office for Agricultural Development
-    (Office Regional de: Mise en Valeur Agricole)
SCAMICMA       -    Regional Marketing Cooperatives
-    (Socikte Cooperative Agricole MarocainelCoop&rative
Marocaine d'Approvisionnement)
SONACOS        -    National Seed Company
(Soci6t6 Nationale de Commercialisation des Semences)
GOVERNMENT OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Fiscal Year
January t - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:             The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:               US$225.0 million equivalent
Terms:                20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Loan Description:    The proposed Loan would support the second phase of
implementation of the Government's medium-term
agricultural sector adjustment program, within the
framework of a general macroeconomic restructuring
program. The essential objectives of the sector
adjustment program are to foster efficient agricultural
growth and to contribute to the reduction of budgetary
and current account deficits to manageable levels, while
minimizing the social costs of adjustment.  To achieve
these objectives, actions have been taken over 1985/86
under the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and
others will be implemented in the upcoming two years,
to: (a) liberalize the agricultural and food pricing,
marketing and trade regimes, while encouraging
productivity increase, and ensuring adequate protection
to low income groups; (b) complete the short-term
restructuring and the design of medium-term priorities
for the public expenditure program; (c) continue the
streamlining of essential governmental support services
and the transfer of commercially viable ones to the
private and cooperative sectors; (d) encourage
agro-industrial exports; (e) improve the management of
natural resources (land, forests); and (f) further
strengthen institutional capacity for sector policy
analysis, formulation and performance monitoring. The
foreign exchange provided by the Loan would be used to
finance an agreed program of imports of inputs needed
for stimulating agricultural production, including
fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, animal feed, cattle for
genetic improvement, fuel, agricultural machinery and
spare parts and veterinary medecines.
Benefits and Risks   The reforms program is expected to create a more
favorable environment for overall economic and sectoral
growth in a time of severe resource constraints. In
particular, liberalization of the agricultural and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



food pricing, marketing and trade regimes combined
with the restructuring of public expenditures are
expected to (a) make the sector a more efficient
producer of import-substitutes and export
products; (b) lead to substantial fiscal and
foreign exchange savings; (c) improve income
distribution patterns in the agricultural sector
while adequately protecting low income urban and
rural landless groups by targeting the remaining
food subsidies. The risks of the program relate
to the length and difficulty of the process,
possible social and political pressures,
unpredictable developments in the external
environment and uncertainties in the response of
the private sector. These risks are limited by
the Government's strong commitment demonstrated by
an outstanding performance during the first phase
of the adjustment program, and by the inherent
flexibility of the phased medium-term approach.
Estimated Disbursements.    The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed in
three tranches. The first tranche of US$75
million would be available at the time of Loan
Effectiveness. The second and third tranches of
US$75 million each would be released after
implementation of specific actions, including an
overall satisfactory review of the implementation
of the sector adjustment program.
Appraisal Report:            This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.
Maps:                        No. IBRD 19761
19762
19763
19795.
3031E



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY
PART I   : THE ECONOMY ..............................................      1
PART II  : BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO .........................    7
PART III : THE MEDIiM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM  (MTASAP)  .........................................   9
A. Origin and Objectives ..........................     .      9
* Reorienting the Prices and Incentives Framework  ....   10
* Restructuring Public Investment and
Expenditures Programs ............................   12
- Strengthening Agricultural Support Services and
Rationalizing the Role of the Public Sector   ......   14
* Improving Productivity of Land Use and Management
of Natural Resources .............................   16
Building up Policy Analysis Capacities and Sector
Performance Monitoring ...........................   18
B. The Initial Phase of the MTASAP: Implementation
Performance during the First Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (ASAL-I) ............................   18
C. Refinement and Expansion of the Medium-Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program ....    ..........   23
Liberalization of the Agricultural and Food Pricing,
Marketing and Trade Regimes ........................   24
Promotion of Agro-Industrial Exports .... ...........    32
Design of Medium-Term Public Investment Priorities      34
PART IV   THE LOAN .................................................   35
A. Rationale for the Proposed Second Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan ..............................   35
B. The Action Program under the Loan .....................   36
C. Loan Administration ...................................   43
D. Management, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation ...    48
E. Economic and Social Impact and Risk ...................   50
PART V     RECOMMENDATION ...........................................   55
3031 E



Table of cuntents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
I.       Country data
II.      Status of Bank Operations
III.     Supplemental Loan Data Sheet
IV.      Government Letter of Sector Development Policy
V.       Content and Timetable of the Adjustment Program (Matrices):
(a) Matrix of Key Actions; (b) Matrices by Subsector/Area
VI.      Outline of Report "Medium-Term Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program" in two volumes
TABLES
1.       Public Expenditures:  Core Group of Priority Projects
and Programs; Evolution of its Share in Total Planned
and Actual Expenditures (1984-86)
2.       Public Expenditures:  Core Group of Priority Projects
and Programs (1987)
3,4 & 5. Medium-Term Public Investment Priorities: Economic
Viability and Priority Ranking of Future large Irrigation
Projects under Investment Limitations (Net Present
Values, Net Benefit/Investment Ratios)
6.       Procurement:  Imports of Agricultural Inputs Eligible for
Financing under the Loan
MAPS
IBRD 19761 - Morocco
IBRD 19762 - Large-Scale Irrigation Areas
IBRD 19763 - Major Rainfed Agricultural Development Zones
IBRD 19795 - Land Capabilities
3 0312E



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$225.0 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$225.0 million, in support
of the second phase of its five-year program for agricultural sector policy
adjustments. This program is described in a Letter of Sector Development
Policy, received from the Government in 1987 (Annex IV). The Loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank standard variable
interest rate. The African Development Bank is also considering a loan in
support of this program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Report titled "Morocco - Issues for a Medium-Term
Structural Adjustment Program" (No. 6608-MOR, dated January 30, 1987) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
Background
3.       Morocco has a population of 22 million growing at about 2.4% per
annum and a GNP per capita of US$580 in 1986. Less than one-half of the
population is urbanized, though the urban growth rate is twice as fast as that
of the rural sector. The economy remains dependent on primary production for
subsistence and exports. Morocco has the world's largest easily accessible
phosphate reserves, so that phosphates and derivatives are major sources of
value added and foreign exchange. About 44% of the labor force is engaged in
agriculture, which generates 18% of value added in the economy. The
agricultural potential is considerable: yields could be greatly increased by
applying better techniques of cutltivation, particularly in fertile rainfed
areas. The extensive coastline on both the Mediterranean and especially the
Atlantic offers considerable fishery resources that are only partly exploited
to date.
4.       During the 1970s Morocco implemented ambitious investment programs.
It was able to finance them initially through terms of trade gains due to a
sharp rise in the price of phosphates that coincided with the 1973 rise in
petroleum prices. When phosphate prices fell in 1975-76, Morocco resorted
increasingly to external borrowing, grants and public sector deficits. In
1975 the country also asserted its claim to the then Spanish Sahara, which
entailed heavy economic and military expenditures. The second oil price rise
303 1 E



- 2 -
in 1979-80, a further fall in phosphate prices, and rising interest rates on
foreign debt all militated in favor of intensifying stabilization efforts to
absorb the combined impact of these external shocks on the economy. However,
the investment program of the 1981-85 Plan exceeded available resources by a
large amount and set the stage for a major retrenchment. The ensuing economic
downturn was exacerbated by severe droughts during this period.
5.       Morocco's growth performance reflects the effects of the imbalances
and reveals some of the weaknesses underlying the economy. After a spurt of
fast growth at an annual average of 7.5% during 1973-77, real GDP growth has
averaged 3.6% p.a. between 1983 and 1986, and has been heavily influenced by
climatic conditions. Economic growth increased to an estimated 5.8Z in 1986,
which was largely due to the agricultural sector where, after stagnating during
1983/84, value added grew at an annual rate of about 17% in 1985-86 due to
exceptionally good rains. Industrial growth recovered in a number of sectors
as the result of export demand and higher agricultural incomes, though
depressed international markets for phosphate derivatives slowed growth in the
chemical and fertilizer sectors. Export volumes and tourist receipts increased
considerably due in part to judicious exchange rate management, but weak prices
(in dollar terms), particularly for phosphates, kept the increase in total
earnings modest. After declining sharply in 1983 as a result of major cutbacks
in Government investment activity, the construction sector grew again on the
basis of resurgent private sector demand. This has been encouraged by
favorable tax treatment, high demand for housing supported by growing workers'
remittances, and continued private sector industrial investment, largely in
export-oriented industries. Growth in the service sectors was less buoyant.
Stabiization and Adjustment
6.       In 1983, Morocco could no longer finance its external deficits and
recognized the need to embark on a serious stabilization and adjustment
program. The Government requested increased assistance from the IMF and the
World Bank. On the basis of a SDR 200 million IMF stand-by program for the
period of September 1983 to February 1985, Morocco obtained debt reschedulings
from the Paris Club of US$1,350 million and from the London Club of
US$630 million for the same period. The Bank has provided sector adjustrent
loans totalling US$600 million in support of the program during 1984-86. The
Government's structural adjustment program aims at increasing the productive
efficiency and competitiveness of the economy. It includes measures of trade
liberalization, export promotion, and sector reforms in agriculture, education,
and public enterprises. Key elements of the stabilization program are: i) a
fiscal reform which introduced a value added tax and aimed at improved revenue
collection of existing taxes, ii) limits on the growth of the civil service
and public sector salaries, iii) major cuts in the public investment program
and reduction of consumer subsidies (prices on subsidized goods were raised by
20-40%), iv) increases in public enterprise tariffs, limits on credit to the
economy and annual limits on external borrowing, and v) devaluation of the
dirham.
7.       As a result oE these programs, both external and domestic imbalances
have been reduced. The deficits of the central Government budget and of the
balance of payments current account have been brought down to an estimated
5.3 percent and 1.5% of GDP (after debt relief), respectively, in 1986.
A new stand-by of SDR 230 million for December 1986 to March 1988 is now in
effect. The main elements of the stabilization effort continue to be severe
303 1 E



restraint in Government investment and consumption, price increases to reduce
consumer subsidies, limits on civil service growth and salaries, reductions in
Government arrears, ceilings on credit to the economy and on non-concessional
external borrowing. The current stand-by aims to reduce the overall budget
deficit to 6.67 of GDP in 1966 and 4.3% of  GDP in 1987 (on a commitment
basis), and the current account deficit to 1.5% of GDP in 1986 and somewhat
less in 1987. The program allows for an increase in the 1987 deficit of about
0.7% of GDP if additional concessional financing can be found for supplemental
productive investments. Efforts to attract such funds have had limited
success so far. The 1986 targets have largely been met.
8.       In spite of these achievements, Morocco continues to face serious
adjustment problems, primarily related to resource mobilization problems
domestically and externally. The country embarked on the adjustment program
with an exceptionally high debt/GDP ratio (including IMF) which remains at
106X in 1986.  The debt service ratio is expected to remain about 60% during
1989-92 without further debt rescheduling. Virtually no new loans have been
made by private banks without guarantees by creditor country governments, with
the result that Morocco's liquidity position remains precarious. Reserves arc~
negligible and substantial external arrears have accumulated. The significant
reduction of the budget deficit has been achieved through a decline in public
investment expenditures to very low levels and a large build up of arrears by
the Government in both capital and current expenditures. Revenues have
declined slightly in relation to GDP. The low level of public investment
expeneitures is jeopardizing Morocco's growth prospects for the medium-term,
and the payment arrears have resulted in liquidity problems for the private
sector. Insufficient investment funds and the persistence of domestic and
external payment arrears seriously hamper the implementation of the
Government's reform programs.
Structural Adjustment Policies
9.       The initial emphasis of the Government's liberalization program was
on making the economy more export-oriented and increasing its productivity.
In addition to depreciating the Dirham by about 18% in real terms since 1983,
a series of measures were taken extending and improving the temporary import
admissions scheme, removing virtually all export licensinxg requirements,
dismantling the state monopoly on fruit and vegetable exports, and initiating
a process of simplifying and clarifying export procedures. One of the primary
means of improving economic productivity has been through reducing price
distortions. Rationalization of the structure of protection has begun:
tariffs have been reduced from levels as high as 4007 on some items, to a
maximum of 45% and import taxes have been reduced or eliminated, import bans
have been removed and most quantitative restrictions dropped. The effect of
distortions on the price of capital has shrunk markedly through the freeing of
all but a few interest rates, which are now at positive real levels, and
removing much of the reduction in the cost of capital due to incentive
schemes. There has also been widespread price liberalization of tradeable
goods.
10.      In conjunction with the efforts to stabilize the economy the
Government began to implement a program of sector policy adjustments in 1984.
Agricultural subsidies on fertilizers have been reduced by 40 percent, water
charges were increased and the private sector was allowed to enter into
fertilizer distribution and seed production-activities until then reserved to
the state. The Government is also implementing an education reform spreading



-4-
primary education in rural areas and increasing female participation, while
reducing the overemphasis on higher education.
11.      The initial results of these reforms have been encouraging.  Growth
of non-phosphate manufactured exports, tourism and worker's remittances have
accelerated, whiLe imports have declined in real terms. The use of temporary
import admissions has shot up and a recent survey shows that exporters are
both investing and using capacity more intensively than before. The Government
has decided to continue its adjustment and stabilization programs, and the
Bank and the IMF are supporting these efforts with financial and technical
assistance.
12.      The process of trade liberalization and export promotion needs to be
continued and extended. First, most remaining quantitative restrictions
should be replaced by tariffs. At present they still apply to goods whose
local production accounts for 54Z of industuial production and virtually all
agriculture. In special cases, notably steel and vehicle assembly, tariffs
equivalent to the protection by quantitative restrictions may be initially
applied and then progressiveLy reduced giving time for necessary restructuring
of the sectors. Second, the tariff reforms already started should be carried
further with the objective of limiting protection to at most 25% and of
reaching a standardized minimum with no exemptions other than temporary import
admissions for export industries. Taxes on imports should be integrated into
one single customs duty.
13.      Third, simplification of procedures affecting imports and exports
should continue. The Government has created a committee for that purpose,
with representation from all concerned parties, and is obtaining technical
assistance for it. Fourth, a system and procedures for countervailing duties
to protect domestic producers, particularly in the agricultural sector, from
dumping need to be defined. The Government's pricing reforms for agriculture
are based on the use of realistic prices for the major crops and shielding
local production from distortions caused Jy subsidized sales of surplus stocks
by foreign producers. Fifth, the exchange rate needs to be kept under review
to ensure that the real price of tradables supports efficient import-
substitution and promotes rapid growth of agricultural and manufactured
exports.
14.      The need for a markedly higher level of domestic resource mobilization
is evident from the Government's deficits and accumulated arrears, the low
levels of public investment, and shortages of local counterpart funds for
externally financed projects. Meeting the medium-term growth objective of
4-52 per annum will require a sharp increase in the level of national savings.
15.      Greater public savings should arise from a reduction in current
expenditures, in keeping with the intention of the Government to decrease its
share in overall economic activity. Structural measures are also being
identified to correct the basic weaknesses in the tax structure and improve
the buoyancy of the fiscal system. Revenue losses linked to liberalization-
induced reductions in the level of trade taxes would need to be offset by a
combination of cuts in public expenditures and higher yields from other
domestic taxes. Suitable measures would include broadening the base of the
VAT, reducing tax exemptions, modernizing the system of excise taxes and
improving the efficiency of tax administration.
303 X E



16.      As a proportion of GDP, total Government expenditures (excluding
interest payments) decreased by 10.6 percentage points between 1982 and 1986,
mainly through sharp cuts in the investment budget. Personnel expenditures
constitute the main cost in the recurrent budget, having risen from 8.5% of
GDP in 1970 to 16% in the early eighties, and now are around 11% of GDP. The
number of civil servants in 1986 is bO4,000, compared to 584,000 in 1984 and
278,000 in 1970. To date, restriction of personnel costs has been achieved by
limiting salary increases to the lower end of the scale, and this has now
reached its limits ar the purchasinig power of the civil service has declined
over the past three years. With the assistance ot the Bank and the IMF, the
Government has begun Lo address these problems.
17.      Substantial changes have been made in the last couple of years to
loosen or remove constraints to mobilize private sector savings and allocate
resources Lo the most profitable uses. Apart from the relaxation of interest
rates, measures taken include adjustment of credit ceilings so as to give
banks an incentive to mobilize savings, the greater use of rediscounting and
sale of Treasury bills to the public as means of developing money markets, and
the partial passing on of foreign exchange risk to final borrowers. Over the
medium term, the financial sector's effectiveness will be increased mainly by
increasing competition and diversifying its financial instruments. To achieve
this, several of the remaining restrictions on interest rates could be removed
and the commission structure of the banks made more flexible. Other obstacles
to competition arising from legislation or market structure should be
Ji;ntified with a view to removing them.  The bond market should be developed
by greater use by the Treasury and public enterprises of negotiable bonds, and
the stock market should be expanded and made more active. Foreign exchange
risk should ultimately be borne entirely by financial institutions and final
borrowers as they gain experience in handling it.
18.      A significant part of Morocco's current economic problems stem from
deficiencies in the planning, allocation, and management of public sector
resources. The Government has begun to address these problems by improving
planning, budgeting and monitoring of public investments through a better
classification of expenditure items, stronger links between the Ministries of
Finance and Plan, and computerization of the budgeting process. The guideLines
for project evaluation, including the use of shadow prices and minimum
requirements for public sector projects, are being strengthened and applied
more rigorously. A new Five Year Plan 1988-92, which is expected to provide
an indicative macroeconomic framework for the Government's policy decisions,
is currently under preparation.
19.      Although idministrative controls over economic activity have been
considerably reduced in recent years, the Government recognizes that the
state's economic role needs further redefinition. One declared objective of
the Government is to disengage from commercial activities, and a program for
divestiture of some public enterprises is being prepared on a case by case
basis. Public sector enterprises account for about 20% of GDP and a much
higher proportion of the corporate sector value added in the economy. The
Government intends to eliminate all operating subsidies through price
adjustments and, if necessary, through sectoral or enterprise restructuring.
It would limit its financing for public service enterprises to equity and
would not provide assistance to public enterprises able to raise funds on the
capital market. At the same time the Government has started to restructure
its relations with enterprises which remain in the public sector with a view
303 1 E



-6-
to inducing greater efficiency through appropriate definition of
responsibilities and performance objectives. The Bank is assisting the
Government with a sector adjustment program for Public Enterprises.
20.      The Government is committed to mitigating the hardship to the poor
caused by the present economic difficulties. The design of an effective
compensatory system has become an urgent issue since the Government plans to
eliminate food subsidies by 1990. Its policy consists of a combination of two
approaches. One would use the existing special agencies, which have functioned
well and are precise in their targeting, to deliver nutritional assistance for
specific groups such as school children, nursing mothers, etc. The other
would use "inferior good" varieties with lower consumer appeal that could be
subsidized at the production/ processing stage and commercializuid without
attracting strong demand from the not-so-poor.
Economic Projections
21.      Morocco should be able to achieve an economic growth rate of about
4 to 5% per annum between 1988 and 1992, provided adjustment continues and
external support is received. This level of GDP growth would permit real
growth of consumption per capita of I to 22 p.a. Investment would rise from
an average of 20.22 of GDP during 1985-86 to 21.5% during 1988-92. The
marginal savings rate would be about 331 for the rest of the decade, which
would enable gross domestic savings to rise from 12.2% of GDP in 1985 to 19.4%
on average during 1988-92. There would be a significant shift in the
composition of savings and investment, with the private sector generating
10.31 of GDP in savings and 12.7% in investments by 1990. The Government
contribution to savings and investment would be 4.61 and 4.1% of GDP,
respectively. Exports would grow at 5.6% p.a. until 1990 and at 5.7% p.a.
thereafter. and there would be more import capacity to support a larger
investment program and faster growth of GDP. Currently manufactured exports
account for 20.0X of total exports, up from 12.01 in 1980. They would expand
to about 221 by 1990 and 261 by 1995.
22.      The current account should move into balance and even begin to show a
small surplus in the early or mid-1990s as the adjustment program is
implemented. This will allow Morocco to eliminate external arrears, build up
reserves, and begin reaching more favorable debt/CDP ratios. At the same time
efforts will be needed to permit Morocco to improve the structure of its
external debt. Gross capital requirements in 1986-88 would average US$2.5
billion per year. Based on preliminary estimates, more than half of this
would be covered by debt relief. The rest should be obtained through medium-
and long-term capital inflows of nearly US$1 billion a year, assuming new
official loan commitments of around US$800 million per year are forthcoming.
From 1989-1991, even with a continuous improvement in the current account
balance, gross capital requirements would still average atout US$2.1 billion a
year, including financing gaps of around US$600 million. These gaps will have
to be covered through additional borrowing.
23.      In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few years, the long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed would continue
to rise until 1992, but would begin to stabilize thereafter. In the absence of
debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service ratio would have risen to 56 and
72% of exports of goods and services (including workers'remittances) in 1985
30 3 1 E



-7-
and 1986, respectively. With debt relief obtained for the period 1985-87, on
the other hand, the debt service ratio will be kept at about 25% in 1987, and
further rescheduling will be required to keep it at this level.
PART U - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
24.      World Bank lending to Morocco, in support of 88 projects, has totalled
US$3,592.7 million (net of cancellations) of which US$25 million were from a
third window loan. US$2,954.0 million are currently outstanding, of which
US$1,599.5 million are disbursed.-L These figures include IDA credits,
totalling US$45.2 million, which were made available for five projects until
1975. Total IFC investments amount to US$94.5 million in 12 operations
(US$90.4 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
25.      In recent years, project implementation experience has been mixed.
While technical and management constraints within many project entities have
been overcome, shortages of budget funds have hampered the performance of
those entities which rely on the Government budget for part of their project
financial requirements. Insufficient budgetary provisions pertain both to
investment and current Government expenditures. Combined with rigidities in
pricing policy, these shortfalls have contributed to disappointing financial
performance of project entities through a build-up of arrears to private
contractors and to public enterprises. Disbursement results have largely
reflected the above conditions, as well as the fact that for much of the
period 1984-86, appreciation of the Dollar vis-a-vis the Dirham reduced
project costs and therefore reimbursable expenditures in dollar terms. To
allev±aLe budgetary constraints and improve project implementation, Special
Action Program (SAP) provisions were applied to 15 Morocco loans during this
period. Between 1984 and 1986, this contributed to improving the ratio of
actual disbursements to appraisal estimates from an average of about 43% in
1934, to 54.3% in March, 1986 -- close to EMENA Region averages. In FY87,
total Bank disbursements to Morocco were US$390.6 million (up from US$375.2
million in FY86). Of this amount, about US$48.0 million has been disbursed
into Special Accounts (revolving funds): an additional US$86.2 million is
expected to be deposited in special accounts during FY88. Repayments on Bank
loans during FY87 amounted to US$111.5 million.
26. The Government's constrained resource position has led to the postponement
of preparation of a new Development Plan which is now scheduled to be issued
in early 1988. Budget constraints have limited investment expenditures
essentially to the completion of ongoing investments. In these circumstances,
the Government's development strategy has been modified to concentrate on
policy reforms in major economic sectors aimed at the transformation of the
economy into a more efficient producer of goods and services and with greater
participation in international trade and more reliance on the private sector.
The Bank has supported the introduction of reforms in the Financial,
1/ Total commitments and disbursements are net of repayments and sales.
3031E



- 8 -
Industrial and Trade regimes designed to improve resource use, change
incentives to realize the potential for export development and to promote
private and public savings. The Agricultural sector reform entailed a
restructuring of the investment program and a re-orientation of prices and
incentives. Support and delivery systems are being strengthened and the
capacity for sector planning, policy analysis and execution reinforced.
The Education system is being re-oriented to improve its balance, quality and
equity of access through the promotion of primary education and vocational
training; sectoral efficiency will be enhanced through measures to reduce unit
costs and curb the growth of budgetary outlays. In the recognition that the
dependence of Public Enterprises on the Government budget needs to decrease,
the Government has decided to change the nature and scope of its interventions
in the public enterprise sector through the promotion of financial, managerial
and administrative autonomy of public enterprises as well as a rationalization
of the State's role in the economy.
27.      The overall objectives of the Government's medium-term strategy are
to restore sustainable growth rates and reduce the debt burden to manageable
levels. The Bank's assistance strategy is to support Government programs
which contain concrete measures to: (i) mobilize resources, particularly
increase public savings; (ii) improve mechanisms for the efficient allocation,
monitoring and use of public resources; (iii) promote exports and efficient
import substitution; and (iv) enhance equity in the distribution of economic
gains. Such support implies promoting flexible institutional structures and
enhancing the decentralization of decision-making and creating an environment
which stimulates private sector investment and production. The Bank's
economic and sector work program has been designed to provide the analytical
basis for the structural reform programs in each of the major sectors, and for
subsequent Bank lending in each. In addition to addressing key sectoral policy
issues, economic and sector work contains periodic reviews of the public
investment programs to help the Government allocate its scarce resources to
high priority projects. The results of the Bank's general macro-economic work,
in addition to providing background for the Consultative Group for Morocco,
contains special studies on resource mobilization, on the employment situation
and the impact of the overall structural adjustment program on economic
activity and on the poor. Together with the IMF, the Bank is evolving a
medium-term framework for fiscal policies aimed at a broadening of the tax base
and a rationalization of public expenditures, to be the basis for a Structural
Adjustment Loan. A recurrent element of the macro-economic dialogue is the
evolution of a program to streamline and integrate investment planning and
budgeting, with emphasis on appropriate resource allocation and project
selection. Sectoral studies in the Energy, Urban, Population, Health and
Nutrition sectors are expected to provide the basis for future operations in
these areas.
28.      The Bank's lending strategy for Morocco is to support Government
programs which promote stabilization and structural adjustment in major
economic sectors. Thus, sectoral policy operations will form a large part of
the Bank's assistance program. Given the resource constraints imposed by
fiscal stabilization, investment proposals relying on the Government budget
need to be carefully scrutinized. There is, however, scope for
(i) formulating investments which redress imbalances in income distribution
and in the access of the population to public services, and (ii) financing the
resource needs of private sector enterprises and export industries which are
303 1E



-9-
being restructured so to operate efficiently within the new trade regime.
Viable operations financing essential maintenance required to sustain essential
service levels are also included in the strategy. Project lending will thus
continue, albeit at similar constrained levels to those characterizing the
past three years of the program.
PART Em - THE MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (MTASAP)
A. MTASAP: Origin and Objectives
29.      In 1984, as part of the response to the worsening macro-economic
situation in the country, the Government developed a Medium-Term Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP). For this, Bank assistance was available
to the Government in the form of sector strategy discussions, sector work,
public investment reviews and assessments of policy constraints facing the
sector. The original MTASAP and its rationale are described in the Letter of
Sector Development Policy sent to the Bank by the Minister of Finance in the
context of the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-I).-' The
MTASAP covers a 5-year period (1985-90), and a summary is presented in this
Section below (paras. 30 to 64). Experience gained and additional work done
during ASAL-I have led to expanding or refining MTASAP in certain areas. The
main refinements and expansions to the original MTASAP are discussed in
Section C (paras. 77 to 108). The Government has sent the Bank a letter
confirming its continued commitment to pursue the MTASAP, as it has been
refined and expanded for its second phase (Annex IV). Details on supporting
programs and policies, including the analytical background and implementation
plans, are in a separate document: Morocco - Medium-Term Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (in 2 volumes). An outline of this Report is in Annex VI.
30.      Consistent with the macro-economic objective of redressing the
balance of payments and budgetary situation, the essential purpose of the
MTASAP is to promote efficient growth in the agricultural sector by improving
resource allocation, encouraging productivity gains, streamlining the use of
public resources and alleviating the burden of the agricultural and food
policies on the Government's budget, and encouraging a more active involvement
of the private sector in input supply, support services, marketing, and
agro-processing. Improving resource allocation in agriculture is expected to
result in redressing income disparities in the sector in the aggregate,
leading to a convergence between growth, efficiency and equity objectives.
The MTASAP includes a comprehensive set of specific actions to address the
identified constraints on improved performance within the context of the
overall adjustment with growth program being undertaken by Morocco, and aims
to achieve its objectives by:
!/ Report No. P-4032-MOR; dated May 28, 1985.
303 ! E



- 10 -
(a) reorienting the prices and incentives framework, so as to
(i) encourage shifts towards the type of crop and livestock
activities for which Morocco has a medium-term comparative advantage;
and (ii) maintain adequate farmer incentives for commodities and
production systems likely to be the primary sources of future
agricultural growth and employment;
(b) restructuring public investment and expenditure programs towards
quick maturing and high return investments while assuring adequate
funding for maintaining the already established productive
infrastructure;
(c) strengthening and streamlining the agricultural support services
which are essential to be offered by the Government while encouraging
the role of private sector in the provision of commercially viable
services;
(d) improving productivity of land use and management of the country's
natural resources; and
(e) building up institutional capacity for agricultural policy planning
and analysis and secLor performance monitoring.
Reorienting the Prices and Incentives Framework
31.      The MTASAP aims to correct the adverse consequences of Government's
intervention in agricultural and food pricing, marketing and trade which has
been pervasive since the early seventies, largely in response to major price
movements and trade disruptions on the international markets of primary
commodities and inputs at that period.
32.      Instruments used in the tightly interventionist regime of the recent
past range from (a) the administrative setting of producer prices for most
primary commodities;'' (b) restrictions on domestic and external trade;
(c) a proliferation of price controls and regulations in agro-processing and
marketing; (d) distortions in factor markets through the subsidization of key
inputs and investments; (e) the imposition of compulsory cropping patterns
involving certain import-substitutes (sugar); and (f) consumer subsidies on
flour, sugar and edible oils.
33.      The primary adverse consequence that the MTASAP aims to correct is on
resource allocation and protection patterns. Rainfed grown commodities, and
particularly grains, have suffered relative to irrigated production. Rainfed
farming has faced over the last 10-15 years at least a 30 percent protection
differential relative to industry and as much as 50 percent relative to
irrigated farming, and within irrigated agriculture, export crops have been
penalized vis-a-vis inefficient import substitution crops such as sugar
crops. This is largely because domestic price support programs, due to fiscal
constraints, have not been very successful in insulating farmgate prices from
1/ Cereals, oilseeds, cotton, milk, sugar beet and cane, sunflower, soya.
However, fruit, vegetables and meat prices are not regulated.
303 IE



- 11 -
the effects of consumer food subsidies (for grain in particular). At the same
time, input subsidization, largely geared at offsetting the perceived taxation
of agriculture vis-a-vis other sectors,-I has not benefitted the rainfed
sector, which is not a heavy user of modern inputs. Also, price and
distribution controls of key agro-industrial by-products used as animal feed
have generated a misallocation of resources in livestock activities by
discouraging efficient rainfed forage-based production systems. Last, export
controls on the few exportable commodities grown in the rainfed areas (pulses
in particular), to maintain low prices for domestic consumers, have reduced
production incentives.
34.      Secondly, the interventions have had an unsustainable impact on
public finance. The financiai costs of Government's agricultural and food
policies have risen sharply over the last fifteen years. They amounted to
3.2 percent of GDP in 1985, compared to 2 percent in 1975-80 and less than
1 percent in the early seventies, and accounted for about 30 percent of total
budget deficit in 1984/85. Total subsidies to agriculture amounted to about
1.2 percent of Morocco's GDP in 1985186zA as against 0.3 percent in 1974.
Input subsidies (DH 1,050 million) accounted for the bulk of these costs, but
non-recovery of cost of commercial services (DH 200 million), on-farm
investment subsidies (DR 200 million) and output price support for sugar
(DH 600 million) are also important. As for the food subsidy bill (soft wheat
flour, edible oils, sugar), it has gradually increased in relative terms and
accounted for about 2 percent of Morocco's CDP and about 11 percent of current
government expenditures over the last two years (1985/86). Neither Morocco's
agricultural performance nor the effectiveness of its food subsidy program
seem commensurate with this growing financial burden.
35.      Thirdly, the interventions lead to a framework which is income
regressive. The bulk of net transfers to agriculture benefit farmers in the
richer irrigated areas and primarily the subgroup of sugar producers. It is
estimated that over the last ten years about 70-80 percent of total
agricultural subsidies have benefitted irrigated farming systems which
represent less than 10 percent of the agricultural land and are operated by
better-off farming households. In 1984/85, net policy-induced implicit and
explicit taxation on rainfed agriculture totalled about DH 750 million, while
sugar crops, intensive milk production systems and irrigated cereals
benefitted from a net subsidy of about DH 1.2 billion (of which about 80
percent to sugar crops). 31 This is of serious concern, since cropping
choices in rainfed agriculture have been limited by poor technologies and
climatic constraints, and under adverse incentives, options tend to be between
shifting in and out of agriculture. Given the lack of alternative gainful
rural employment, it has a serious impact on increased rural-urban migration
and entails high economic and political costs. 4
1/ From an intersectoral perspective, industry benefits from a higher level
of protection than agriculture for which output weighted average effective
protection in 1985/86 is estimated at about 15-20 percent. Recent
estimates (1985/86) indicate that protection to industry still is in the
range of 60 percent, though it is programmed to be reduced steadily.
2/ i.e. about 6 percent of agricultural GDP.
3/ See Morocco: Agricultural Prices and Incentives Study, Report
No. 6045-MOR, May 15, 1986.
41 Rainfed cultivation invol-ves about 80% of the rural population, of which
45 percent are below the poverty line (US$238 per capita).



- 12 -
36.      Agricultural growth potential in Morocco lies on the one hand in the
integration of cereals and livestock production in the medium to high rainfall
areas and on the other hand in a more rational use of irrigated land. The
MTASAP's primary objective is thus to maintain the overall incentives [or
agriculture, while (a) restructuring the framework to make it more conducive
to faster growth in rainfed areas and to desirable shifts in irrigated
cropping patterns, particularly reduced emphasis on sugar production in
marginal areas; and (b) reducing the burden of present policies on public
finance. This objective is based both on economic grounds of long-term
comparative advantage considerations and growth potential and on equity
grounds since incomes in rainfed agriculture are substantially lower than in
the irrigated sector.
37.      These objectives are essentially being achieved first through
provision of adequate incentives to rainfed agriculture with (a) a gradual
reduction in the magnitude of food subsidies which depress domestic output of
rainfed-grown commodities (grain, oilcrops); and (b) the support of producer
prices at levels high enough to induce efficient production. This will
involve inter alia major reforms in the external trade and domestic marketing
regimes. Second, adjustments in costs of inputs and services which are
preferentially consumed in irrigated farming would take place, so as to bring
them closer to their real economic value. The medium-term adjustment program
involves (a) the general elimination of fertilizer subsidies; (b) full
recovery of water charges; and (c) charging of the various commercial services
provided by the Offices at real cost. Regardiig distortions in the dairy
sector, Government's medium-term objective is to encourage the development of
forage production and storage as well as a better utilization of underutilized
low value feed by phasing out its intervention on the wheat bran and beet pulp
market and allowing prices to reflect the real value of these feeds.
38.      Significant refinements and expansion of the MTASAP in these areas
have been made as a result of studies completed during the ASAL-I
implemenitation. These are discussed in detail in Section C below (paras. 77
to 108).
Restructuring Public Investment and Expenditures Programs
39.      The 1981-85 Development Plan attempted to achieve a significant
reallocation of public investment in favor of rainfed agriculture, livestock
and forestry. For the irrigated sector, it emphasized an expanded program of
low cost, quick maturing schemes and the completion of on-going projects where
water resources had already been developed. The share allocated to large-
scale-irrigation development was down to about 40 percent compared to the
historic 65 percent, while proposed investments in rainfed areas were almost
doubled, more closely reflecting their relative importance and potential.
40.      However, stringent budgetary constraints in 1982 required a
significant scaling down of overall public investments and a restructuring of
the investment program.  A Public Investment Review"' revealed thaL the
restructuring process was likely to extend beyond the 1981-85 Plan period.
Among the issues which were identified were: (a) a lack of methodology and
1/ See Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector Investment (1981-85),
Report No. 4156-MOR. Two large irrigation projects, half a dozen high
cost medium-scale irrigation projects, and two sugarmills were postponed.
20215 



- 13 -
clear criteria to guide project selection and revision, and to evaluate
activities of a program nature; (b) variable implementation capacity among
agencies and units of the Ministry of Agriculture leading to significant
discrepancies in implementation rates; (c) a chronic imbalance between
available budget resources and approved project requirements translating into
an overall slowdown in the implementation of the investment program; (d) a
large proportion of ongoing operations for which funds had been committed,
thus making it difficult to rapidly re-adjust the direction of the program;
and (e) a significant proportion of ill-defined mostly recurrent programs
which do not fall into a project format and often include recurrent
expenditures.
41.      The MTASAP's aim is to restructure the public investment program to
maximize the contribution to agricultural growth of the reduced level of funds
available for public expenditures. This involves:
(a) restructuring of on-going investments and expenditures in order to
concentrate resources almost exclusively on a "core" program of high
priority operations;1'
(b) the setting up of institutional arrangements to ensure adequate
funding for the maintenance of productive infrastructure,
particularly irrigation network; and
(c) a redirection of available government resources towards support for
private investment and technological change in agriculture.
42.      Restructuring of on-going investments and programs is being carried
out by giving priority to operations meeting the following criteria: (a) key
contribution to essential sectoral development objectives; (b) short gestation
or remaining completion periods; (c) no or limited impact on future recurrent
expenditures; (d) maximization of returns on past investments; (e) positive
effect on the balance of payments; and (f) short-term labor intensity and
long-term employment creation. For the operations in the core program, close
monitoring of budgetary allocations, commitments and expenditures is being
ensured through the recently developed computerized system in MARA in order to
avoid delays in implementation and a consequent decline in economic
viability. Beyond the short-term restructuring of the on-going portfolio of
operations, the original NTASAP has been expanded to include the development
of medium-term investment priorities for both the irrigated and rainfed
sectors. This is discussed in Section C (paras. 106 to 108).
43.      Adequate operating budgets for maintenance of productive
infrastructure (particularly irrigation networks) are being ensured through
improved cost recovery programs and streamlined budgeting procedures in the
Irrigation Offices (ORMVAs) (paras. 56 and 68).
44.      Greater reliance on private investment as opposed to direct public
investment is a key element of the Government's MTASAP. Private activity is
at present guided by the Agricultural Investment Code which provides a package
of incentives for on-farm investments. As part of the MTASAP, the Government
is to improve the selectivity, targeting, institutional channels and cost
recovery for existing financial incentives to promote greater private
investment in agriculture as well as to withdraw from commercially viable
1/ See Tables 1 and 2.



- 14 -
support services. The reforms in the area involve a critical examination of
the justification for granting incentives to specific private investments, a
new financing mechanism which pools all available subsidy funds in the
Agricultural Development Fund (FDA), and a closer coordination with
agricultural credit.
Strengthening Agriculturl Support Services and Rationalizing the Role of the
Public Sector
45.      The agricultural sector is marked by an excessive dependence of
farmers on support and marketing services provided by the Government directly
or by its agencies. These services operate under inherent constraints -
financial and managerial - which impair their effectiveness while at the same
time, due to inadequate pricing arrangements which limit the margins available
to pay for services supplied, discourage the development of alternative
sources of supply in the private and cooperative sectors. Under the MTASAP, a
rationalization of the role of the public sector is aimed for to increase
efficiency and cost effectiveness of services which would need to remain in
the public domain, while improving cost recovery and encouraging withdrawal in
those which are commercially viable. Action programs have been prepared in
areas of extension and research, livestock services, and input marketing.
46.      Agricultural Extension.  To improve the adequate transfer of
available technology to farmers, the MTASAP aims to implement a T&V based
extension system but, given budget constraints, with the following phasing and
focus:
(a) low cost changes in the field organization structure and work
programming of existing extension staff, and improvement of their
mobility and training;
(b) separation of extension and input distribution activities and
designation of a head of extension at field level;
(c) phasing-out of farm mechanization services by extension staff;
(d) integration of livestock extension with crop extension;
(e) full reorganization of extension units at the central level and in
the DPAs; and
(f) establishment of joint extension-research teams to supervise farm
level trials and help develop regional research objectives.
47.      Agricultural Research.  To improve the national research effort,
which is poorly focused, inadequately funded and coordinated and where the few
results obtained are insufficiently disseminated, the Government has
established in 1981, an autonomous National Research Institute (INRA). Based
ou a diagnostic study completed by ISNAR in 1984, the MTASAP aims to overcome
the constraints which have prevented INRA from fulfilling its important role.
48.      The program aims specifically at (a) streamlining and restructuring
INRA to improve its efficiency; (b) ensuring greater focus and selectivity in
national research activities; and (c) redefining the role of each participating
institution in these. Under the MTASAP, INRA's research station network
3031 E



- 15 -
is being reduced to ensure that each station has the critical mass of
scientific staff and to increase the operating budget available for remaining
stations. To strengthen the system for management of scientific research,
INRA's organization restructuring is being completed and national research
priorities defined.   The new structure would emphasize scientific freedom and
research by objectives, would rely on a system of technical program
sub-committees to manage and monitor priority research programs and to reduce
multiple administrative control over scientific units. The system of
coordination among instiLutes/agencies undertaking research is to be
strengthened to reduce waste and duplication and encourage better sharing of
research results and setting of research objectives. For this, research
conventions are to be signed between INRA and individual agencies executing
publicly funded research.
49.      Livestock Services.  To improve the availability and quality of
services such as animal health and genetic improvement, which have been
drastically affected by the budgetary constraints, the MTASAP emphasizes their
transfer to the private sector and cooperatives.
50.      Under the MTASAP, a system is being implemented under which private
veterinarians are able to work under contract with the Government to provide
the essential preventive services while undertaking, on a full cost recovery
and competitive basis, individualized animal health care for livestock
raisers. Similarly, the responsibilities for providing all artificial
insemination services and, on a selective basis, the natural service centers,
are to be transferred to livestock groups or cooperatives. It is expected
that this liberalized system would be established countrywide by 1990.
51.      Input Marketing (Fertilizer, HYV Seed, Irrigation Water).  The growth
rate in fertilizer consumption between 1974 and 1986 of 6.5 percent p.a. is
just below the average for the Mediterranean basin countries. However, the
consumption at about 37 kg/ha of arable land is still below the average of
about 125 kglha for the region. In addition, because irrigated areas benefit
from well developed distribution arrangements for adequate and timely supply
of inputs, over 50 percent of the fertilizer consumption is on 700,000 ha of
irrigated lands, concentrated on sugar beet, fruits and vegetables. For the
rainfed areas and basic cereal crops, the present marketing system is not as
effective, dominated as it is by FERTIMA, a parastatal which has a monopoly
over imports and over the domestic sale of locally produced phosphate
fertilizer, and is simultaneously involved in wholesale and retail trade.
Also, a system of fixed distribution margins has discouraged the private
sector from developing a wide distribution network.
52.      Under the MTASAP, the Government aims to gradually put the public and
private fertilizer sectors on an equal footing as regards import procurement,
distribution as well as the responsibility of holding national security
stocks. This would be achieved by eliminating the import monopoly and
deregulating domestic marketing once existing subsidies are eliminated
(para. 37). With respect to retail trade, the MTASAP aims to strengthen the
distribution system, particularly in the rainfed areas, by withdrawing FERTIMA
and encouraging greater private sector participation.-   To this end,
FERTIMA's retailing is to be limited to areas where the market requires
further development before commercial operations can start. Public sector
1/ Price increases over the last 3-4 years have not affected growth rates in
fertilizer consumption (para. 71).



- 16 -
outlets located in zones where private sector retailing has become established
and where, as a result, FERTIMA's sales have declined to low levels, would be
closed down. In addition, the ORMVAs would ensure full cost charges for
fertilizer distribution services they provide in irrigated areas (para. 56).
53.      Unlike production of seed and planting material for most industrial
and vegetable crops which is already in the private sector and operates
reasonably efficiently, there is large unmet demand for quality cereal and
some forage seed, which are under public control. The public sector seed
company (SONACOS) has been unable to expand its production because, among
other reasons,-' of the unsustainable budgrctary provisions of the present
subsidy policy (under which seed producer prices are fixed about 25 percent
above official support prices for common grain, while the price at the seed
user level is subsidized on average by about 20 percent).
54.      The MTASAP aims to increase the volume of cereal and forage seed
marketed to meet demand without incurring budgetary costs by reducing total
and unit subsidies, except for some specific varieties for high risk regions.
Private retail marketing of seed jointly with other inputs is to be encouraged
and the researcL effort is to be concentrated on the selection for
introduction in Morocco of improved seed varieties developed elsewhere for
similar conditions.
55.      Although the level of irrigation water charges is now adequate to
recover 100 percent of O&M costs in gravity systems and about 80 percent of
O&M costs in sprinkler systems (while land betterment levies now cover 30
percent of the investment costs in newly developed systems), actual recovery
of water charges due for collection has not been satisfactory. The total
water charges actually collected represent only about 42 percent of the
recurrent expenditures in the budgets of the Irrigation Development
Authorities (ORMVAs). Besides creating a financing gap that puts a burden on
public finance, it also affects the quality of water delivery services.
56.      As part of the overall reform of large irrigation schemes'
management,12' the MTASAP aims in particular to improve the financial
viability and autonomy of the ORMVAs. For that purpose, the MTASAP supports:
(a) a 5-year action program for the improvement in water charges recovery
levels to 90 percent by 1990; and (b) introduction of user charges to
gradually recover the full cost of those commercial services provided by the
Offices, while transferring to others those for which private sector or
cooperatives are ready. Government's objective is to reduce by 1990 total
budgetary support to the ORMVAs to about DH 150 million (in 1986 constant
prices), as against DH 300 million at present, and to assure that by then at
least 3 ORMVAs are financially self-sustained.
Improving Productivity of Lad USe and Management of Natural Resources
57.      Land Use.  Fundamental to achieving Morocco's full agricultural
potential is better utilization of the country's land resources. Currently,
1/ Farmers who can undertake seed production for SONACOS have to be land
owners or hold long-term leases, must have grown cereals on at least 20 ha
in rainfed areas and 10 ha in irrigated schemes and have owned equipment
for initial seed treatment.
2/ Supported by the Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project,
Report No. 5846-MOR, dated January 22, 1986.



- 17 -
land distribution patterns, extreme fragmentation of holdings, lack of land
title, and poor management of collectively owned lands constrain the adoption
of more intensive farming practices. These problems are most acutely felt in
the rainfed sector, where little effort has been made except through the
national Cadaster program. Government's efforts have so far been essentially
concentrated on the redistribution of land regained from foreign settlers and
the development of a legal framework for land transfers in irrigation schemes.
58.      The MTASAP recognizes that Lhe potential for improvement of land
structures and more rational land use in rainfed agriculture is substantial.
As a result, extension of the comprehensive land policy already developed for
irrigated areas to the rainfed sector at a pace consistent with the social
realities of the rural areas has become a priority.
59.      The first element of Government's strategy is to con,inue the
National Cadastre, linking its activities more closely to the future land
consolidation operations. The second element is the constitution of
economically viable production units through land consolidation schemes in
promising high rainfall areas and establishing guidelines for farm
restructuring and transfers based on viability thresholds.  The third element
concerns improved security of tenure for which legislation which would codity
the relationships between lessors and lessees in agriculture, bas been
finalized and is to be submitted to Parliament. Draft legislation based on
the experience gained in the irrigated areas regarding land transfers has also
been finalized and is to be submitted to Parliament.
60.      Conservation and Renewal of Natural Resources.  Morocco is confronted
with a situation of rapid deforestation, decreasing productivity of forest
rangeland and growing erDsion damages. A rational management of forest
resources is constrained by a number of factors. First is a lack of planning
for forest resources leading to sub-optimal use of existing resources. As of
1986, only about 28 percent of the forest areas had been subjected to detailed
inventory and mapping and only about 20 percent of Morocco's forests currently
have a management plan. Second is a general over-exploitation and
over-grazing resulting from increasing pressure of rural population and cattle
on forest areas for fuel wood and fodder. Third, is a poorly funded
reforestation program partly resulting from inappropriate financing
mechanisms. Although the National Reforestation Plan of 1979 concluded that a
program of 40,000 ha/yr was technically and economically feasible, due to
budgetary constraints, the annual reforestation was about 15,000 ha only until
1983/84.
61.      The MTASAP aims to design a comprehensive medium-term forestry and
wood production strategy and contains several actions to address the major
constraints: (a) allocation of adequate funding to speed up forest inventory
and management plan studies; (b) implementation of special pilot projects on
forest resource protection and regeneration to help in the design of a
technical and legal package applicable country-wide to reduce illegal cutting,
increase natural regeneration and improve forestry rangeland management  (c) a
reform of financing mechanisms for reforestation, to augment total resources
available so as to assure adequate funding for a reforestation program of
about 40,000 ha/year and to improve the timeliness of the availability of
funds to match the seasonality of reforestation activities; (d) a review of
market prospects for industrial wood products to better assess reforestation
priorities by species; and (e) a streamlining and possible restructuring of
3031E



- 18 -
the Forest Service to increase its efficiency in implementing the forestry
policy and programs.
Building-up Policy Analysis Capabilities and Sector Performance Monitoring
62.      Successful adjustment in the agricultural sector requires that policy
instruments and expenditures allocations adjust to changing economic
circumstances, so that the agricultural economy stays fully in line with
macro-economic objectives. A primary reason for the stagnation of the
seventies and early eighties - in addition to the effect of droughts - has
been the inadequate adjustments of policy instruments and expenditure
decisions in response to changing economic environments. In recognition of
this weakness, the Government created in 1981 within MARA a separate
Directorage of Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE), which has the following
functions: (a) to prepare five-year development plans for the agricultural
sector and annual budgets; (b) to collect agricultural statistics; and (c) to
carry out economic analyses of sectoral performance and special topics of
interest to the Ministry and the Government. This Directorate needs to be
strengthened to meet the challenge of the adjustment process which lies ahead
in areas of policy analysis, investment analysis and project monitoring and
evaluation. This is of particular importance for Morocco, because of
(a) increasing price instability on the world markets for major food
comwmdities imported by the country; (b) its proximity to the world's largest
food exporter; and (c) the necessity to monitor the transition from a highly
regulated to a free market regime, given the implications for external account
balance, fiscal costs, production incentives (particularly inter-sectoral
incentives regime), and rural incomes (paras. 141 to 151).
63.      Until recently, DPAE had done little work on the efficiency of
different production systems, nor had there been a systematic effort to
monitor incentive patterns or the effectiveness of input subsidies. Attempts
to simulate the impact of alternative price policies on production, the
balance of trade and the government budget have just been initiated.
64.      The MTASAP therefore aims to strengthen with external assistance
(FAO, Bank, USAID...) and increased local resources the emerging permanent
analytical capability in MARA so as to ensure that this unit can: (a) carry
out analysis on agricultural pricing and marketing policies; (b) review and
adjust as needed incentives to private investment in the sector; (c) design
public investment and expenditures programs according to quantified economic
and social criteria; (d) undertake forward-looking strategic work; and (e)
carry out monitoring and evaluation of projects and programs.
B. The Initial Phase of the MTASAP: Implementation Performance
during the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-I)
65.      ASAL-I not only sought a general commitment to the overall MTASAP,
but also Eocused on the specific reform actions to be taken in the period
covered by the first phase (1985/1986). The implementation of adjustment
actions, both those formally covenanted in the Loan Agreement for ASAL-I and
those included in the Government's Policy Letter, has been good. Government's
commitment to implement the broad based policy dialogue in agriculture
initiated with the Bank in 1984 has proved to be strong. Most actions to be
taken prior to Board presentation had been accomplished before negotiations.
The first tranche was fully disbursed by May 1986. The second tranche release
353 1E



- 19 -
was delayed to September 1986 compared to a June 1986 forecast, mainly on
account of difficulty in advancing the announcement of new increased
fertilizer prices normally done in September.
66.      Beyond the limited set of 12 actions which were monitored through the
tranche release process,-I the general program has been implemented on
schedule and covers all the major policy areas. Useful progress has been
achieved on irrigation policy, support services (research, extension,
livestock services), natural resource management and land policy, input
pricing and marketing, public investment restructuring, and a start was made
to address the fundamental issues in output pricing and marketing for the
major commodities.
67.      Improvements in Irrigation Policy.  Under ASAL-I, the primary focus
has been on the management, autonomy and financial viability of the ORMVAs;
new policy directions developed under ASAL-I have paved the way for a set of
wide-ranging reforms to be implemented under the Large Irrigation Improvement
Project (Ln. 2656-MOR), approved 9 months after ASAL-I became effective. The
specific actions taken under ASAL-I have dealt with: (a) the system of
financial and administrative control exercised over the ORMVAs by the central
Government; and (b) the financial autonomy of the ORMVAs.
68.      First, with respect to the system of financial aLd administrative
controls exercised over the ORMVAs by the central Government, the following
essential improvements have been introduced: (a) a system of program-contracts
between the Government and each ORMVA, starting with the Doukkala ORMVA, for
which the contract is being finalized; (b) greater flexibility in financial
management, with a reduction in the number of contracts to be reviewed at the
central level, with budgetary support provided in four global quarterly
releases, and granting of an imprest account for urgent maintenance works.
Second, with respect to financial autonomy, significant improvements have been
introduced during ASAL-I implementation, including: (a) the adoption of a
five-year program for increasing water charge recovery levels, starting with
achieved recoveries rising from 47 percent in 1984 to 57 percent in 1985 and
67 percent in 1986; (b) the issuance of interministerial orders authorizing
ORMVAs to apply a 9 percent distribution margin for input suppLy and to charge
all other commercial services at full cost in the short term; and (c) the
decision to transfer commercial services to private operators over a
three-year period. As a result of this set of measures, one ORMVA (Doukkala)
already became financially autonomous in 1986. Total ORMVAs revenues in the
same year represented about 42 percent of their expenditures (up from
22 percent in 1983/84), and Government's net contribution to balance ORMVA's
recurrent budgets declined by 27 percent in real terms.
69.      Streamlining and Reorganization of Support Services (research,
extension and livestock services). With respect to research, the essential
steps taken by the Government in the context of ASAL-I to establish a strong
agricultural research system include (a) the granting of greater autonomy to
the National Agronomic Research Institute (INRA); (b) the carrying out by
ISNAR of a study on the reorganization of the Institute; (c) the adoption by
the Government of this reorganization; (d) the restructuring of the network of
research stations by closing down 25 of them; (e) the preparation of research
1/ See President's Report for the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(No. P-4032-MOR, May 28, 1985).
3031E



- 20 -
priorities for essential crops; (f) a reduction in INRA's seed comnercial
production activities; and (g) the settiTng up of coordination mechanisms
between INRA and other privaLe or public agencies involved in applied
research. Under ASAL-1, a new T&V bamed extension system Integrating crop and
livestock activities has been set up in 28 pilot zones, Lhe National Extension
Master Plan has been completed, and non-extension related services hiave been
separated from field level extension work and graduallly phased out (including
a freeze in public sector tractor purchases and the elimination of operating
subsidies for farm inechiinitation services). A start has also been made in
upgrading key field extension staff positions.  Last, us far as livestock
services are concernied, the Government started on a pilot basis thte transfer
of health and artificial inseminaLion services to the private sector and to
cooperatives (in 20 zonies), tlitis opening up the development of private
veterinary medicine In Lthe rounitry.  This set of actions to streamline and
reorganize essential support services has proven to be successful and has
encoutraged the Governmernt to plan an extension of the reforms during
subsequent phases of the MTASAP (paras. 121 to 123).  Staff turnover in INRA
has started to decline anid the conditions are Tnow ripe for launching focused
and cost-effective research programs with a critical mass of scientific staff
and a better managenment of research funids.  Staff morale and commitment has
imprived in the pilot field extension centers where the TLV system has been
intioduced, and several veterinarians are already waitlisted for the next
-r-and of privatization in new zones of the country. Overall, the first phase
of L'ae adjustment program has resulted in some internal shifts in manpower
allocation as a result of upgrading of positions (research, extension) and in
a limited decrease (about 1 percent) in total public sector employment (MARA),
because of the divestiture from the provision of some commercial services.
70.      Lmpryovements in Natural Resource Management and Land Poley.  Under
ASAL-I, the initial set of measures taken to increase the level and timeliness
of financial resources allocated to reforestation programs resulted in a
noticeable increase in reforested acreage in 1986 (32,000 ha as against 15 to
20,000 ha in previous years). Unlike in previous years, the Forest Service
could start all reforestation programns on time and as a result of this
improved timeliness in obtaining the funds, average unit costs (on a
per-hectare basis) decreased by about 15 percent in 1986. With respect to
land policy, considerable progress to implement the MTASAP has been made in
the context of ASAL-r; a comprehensive legal package on land consolidation,
prevention of land fragmentation, land transfers, land leases, and
distribution of collective land, has been approved by the Council of
Government and is to be submitted soon to the Parliament. Adoption of this
legal package should lead to increased on-farm investments and better use of
rainfed agricultural land, and is also paving the way for a more active land
policy in the rainfed sector.
71.      Pricing and Marketing of Agricultural and Livestock Inputs.  Under
ASAL-I, fertilizer prices were increased (17 pc-cent in 1985 and 20 percent in
1986) thus reducing unit subsidies, fertilizer margins were adjusted upwards
and an automatic indexation formula for revising these was set up, private
companies were associated to the planning of fertilizer imports, and about
30 percent of government-run fertilizer distribution outlets were closed
down. In addition, a partial transfer of cereal seed multiplication
activities from INRA to SONACOS and other private operators was carried out,
the decision to grant royalties to INRA for varietal development was taken,
and subsidies on HYV seed were frozen at their 1984 level in nominal terms.
303 1 E



- 21 -
The first steps towards the elimination of price distortions between different
kinds of animal feed were also taken by increasing wheat bran and sugar beet
pulp prices (by 60 percent and 17 percent, respectively). As a result of this
set of actions combined with price movements on the world markets, the total
input subsidy bill declined by about 28 percent over 1985186. Over the same
period, consumption of key inputs (fertilizer, seed, animal feed) increased
above historical trends (12 percent p.a. for fertilizer, 5 percent for HYW
seed, and 7 percent for animal feed), thus confirming the low price elasticity
of derand and high value-cost ratios at present levels of consumption, as
est.nated during ASAL-I appraisal. The noticeable increase in fertilizer
ss±es also reflects a stronger participation of the private sector companies
in wholesale and retail trade in L985/86 over previous years, as a result of
restored incentives and closing down of some FERTIMA outlets in the activity.
FERTIKA's total market share during the 1986 agricultural year decline! by
about 6 percentage points from 58 to 52 percent.
72.      Public Investment Restructuring.  Significant progress has been
achieved in this area. First, the freeze in the introduction of new projects
st,rted in 1984/85 was pursued in 1986 to facilitate completion of priority
ongoing operations. Second, the core group of projects and programs defined
with the Government (Table 1) has received the priority funding expected: it
represented 72 percent of the total agricultural investment budget in 1986, up
from 55 percent in 1984 and 69 percent in 1985. The 1987 Finance Law further
focussed on investment allocation in agriculture, since the operations in the
core program received 82 percent of total allocations (Table 2). As a result,
the elimination of low priority programs continues. Expenditures on subsidies
for on-farm investments and many other programs like administrative
infrastructure, office buildings, some routine livestock programs and low
priority modern irrigation schemes, were almost completely stopped in
1985/86. In 1986, the core program received in terms of actual expenditures
more than its budgeted share of investment funds (89 percent as against
72 percent budgeted).  Substantial cancellations-I which took place in the
agricultural investment program in 1985186 (about DH 0.9 billion or about
25 percent of the total program) were found to be consistent with the
investment strategy foLlowed under ASAL-I.
73.      Output Pricing and Marketing.  Under ASAL-I, actions undertaken in
that area were restricted to the cereals sector and represented only interim
steps, pending a more complete analysis of the situation: (a) administered
producer prices for all grains were increased by 11 percent p.a. on average in
1985 and 1986; (b) fixed grain storage margins were increased to prevent
further dete-ioratiou of the domestic marketing system; and (c) an
Interministerial Task Force was set up to design an operational plan for a
gradual liberalization of the grain pricing and marketing system. Completion
of the Prices and Incentives Study and of the above-mentioned operational plan
have led to a significant expansion of the MTASAP in the area of output
pricing, marketing and trade (Section C, paras. 80 to 100).
1/ Administrative construction programs, investment subsidies to parastatals
and agro-industries, uneconomic irrigation schemes (large scale and small
scale).
303 1 E



- 22 -
74.      In many cases, the pace of implementation by the Government was above
the levels specified in the legal agreements: (a) price increases for
fertilizers were 17.5 percent instead of 15 percent requested for the first
tranche; (b) animal feed prices have been increased by 17 percent for beet
pulp and 60 percent for wheat bran as against a 15 percent minimum increase
agreed for both; (c) the ratio water charge recovery against amounts due
reached 63 percent in 1985 instead of the anticipated 57 percent for 1985, and
has slightly exceeded the anticipated 65 percent in 1986; (d) all public
sector fertilizer distribution outlets meeting the agreed criteria have been
closed, instead of the 80 percent required; and (e) 25 of INRA's excessive
field research stations have been closed, instead of the 20 required. This
performance reflects a strong commitment to the program on the part of the
Government as a whole
75.      Although no technical assistance was financed under ASAL-I itself,
the technical assistance (TA) needs identified at appraisal were met by
reshaping on-going programs, reorienting other technical assistance activities
being finalized, and in some cases, where directly related to Bank operations,
carrying these on the Bank's budget."  Since technical assistance needs and
terms of reference were discussed at negotiations, the approach was effective
for timely execution of key studies which were needed for the preparation and
appraisal of ASAL-II. This effort has been helped by the government actions
under ASAL-I to strengthen its policy analysis capacity. In addition to the
effective start-up of technical assistance and staff training programs
financed by USAID and FAO in planning, statistics and project preparation, the
Government has established a specialized partly government-owned unit
(Agro-Concept) to :arry out policy advisory and economic work, added economist
positions in DPAE, and most importantly completed with Bank assistance the
Prices & Incentives Study.
76.      Helped by good rainfall, agriculture was the fastest growing sector
in 1986 (+17 percent p.a.), and accounted for about 40 percent to total GDP
growth in that period; however, it is still too early to draw definite
conclusions regarding ASAL-I's impact on agricultural performance. Clearly,
progress made as a result of the macro-economic stabilization and adjustment
program combined with the agricultural-specific actions taken during the first
phase of the MTASAP has led to improved incentives for efficient agricultural
production and to fiscal savings. Medium-term prosp. cts for maintaining
sectoral performance have been improved because:
(a) exchange rate adjustments have started to reduce the penalization of
agricultural exports;
(b) trade liberalization measures in industty and initial cuts in tariff
barriers across the board have initiated a welcome move towards a
reduced intersectoral disparity in incentives regime (in the
aggregate), although protection to industry is still much higher; and
1/  Of the eight TA specific needs identified, amounting to 168 man-months,
seven had been executed as of December 1986, involving 105 man-months; of
these 7 percent were financed under other Bank projects under
implementation, 92 percent from bilateral sources and 1 percent were
included in Bank's lending program development work. Bilaterally financed
TA was monitored by Bank staff to ensure productive results in a timely
manner.
303 IE



- 23 -
(c) modest reduction in food subsidies in late 1985 have started to
reduce the depressing effect they exercise on agricultural output
prices.
An assessment of the expected medium-term impact of the MTASAP is given in
Part IV, Section E (paras. 141 to 153).
C. Refinement and Expansion of the Medium-term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
77.      Since overall mediwu-term prospects remain difficult despite
encouraging initial results from the overall and sector specific stabilization
and adjustment measures of recent years (paras. 9 to 20), the situation calls
for an increased emphasis on fiscal and balance of payments considerations in
the designs of MTASAP's second phase (1987/89). The challenge of MTASAP's
second phase is therefore to achieve substantial budgetary and foreign
exchange savings while (a) maintaining agricultural growth in the aggregate
(with some internal shifts in the composition of agricultural growth which
would reflect better resource allocation within the sector); and (b)
minimizing the social costs of adjustments.
78.      Thus, based on analytical work executed during MTASAP's first phase
(para. 75), the Government has decided to refine and expand the MTASAP in
certain key areas in order to maximize the contribution of the agriculture and
food sectors to the macro-economic program of adjustment with growth. During
MTASAP's second phase, the reform actions on all major themes of policy
adjustment started in the context of ASAL-I would be pursued further, but
special efforts would be made to:
(a)  liberalize the agricultural and food pricing, marketing and trade
regime, based on the findings of recently completed sector work
carried out jointly with the Bank.-" The focus would be on
measures to induce a progressive adjustment of cropping patterns
towards crops where Morocco has a medium-term comparative advantage,
on redressing inter- and intra-sectoral protection differentials, and
on reducing the negative fiscal and balance of payments effect of the
present pricing and marketing regime.  1n addition, specific actions
to protect low income groups from the effects of eliminating food
subsidies would be taken (paras. 80 to 100);
(b)  promote agro-industrial exports by developing a set of actions
specific to agro-industries which would complement the broad based
export promotion package being implemented by the Government to
support the export-led strategy pursued by the country (paras. 101 to
105); and
(c)  design medium-term public expenditures strategies for both irrigated
and rainfed agriculture; special attention would be given to
developing specific subsectoral medium-term investment priorities as
an input to the preparation of the next Development Plan (see paras.
106 to 108).
1/ Morocco: Agricultural Prices and Incentives Study, Report No. 6045-MOR,
May 15, 1986, and Morocco: Compensatory Programs for Reducing Food
Subsidies, Report No. 6172-MOR, April 1986.
3031F



- 24 -
79.      For these three areas subjected to expansion or refinement during
MTASAP's second phase, a detailed review of the updated medium-term objectives
is presented below. For the other policy areas, the content of the MTASAP1'
remains essentially unchanged. The specific actions to be taken during
MTASAP's second phase (i.e. under ASAL-II) in each area are discussed in
detail in Part IV, Section B (paras. 112 to 127).
Liberalization of the Agricultural and Food Pricing, Marketing and Trade Regime
80.      A continuation of pre-MTASAP agricultural and food pricing policies
would put an unsustainable burden on the budget and the balance of payments.
Overall, it is estimated that the fiscal and foreign exchange costs of these
policies would increase by about 90 percent and 65 percent over 1987-91, in
absolute terms, if they were to be continued.2  In the macro-economic
situation that Morocco finds itself in, such an expansion of the external
trade and fiscal deficit would be unsustainable.
81.      To avoid this evolution, the refined medium-term policy framework
with respect to agricultural and food pricing, marketing, and trade therefore
aims to:
(a) liberalize external trade by eliminating import monopolies and quotas
in order to achieve a closer articulation of domestic markets with
international markets; this liberalization of external trade for
major food imports will1 in the transition path (para. 82), have to
entail replacement of quantitative restrictions by limited tariffs
and would in any case be closely coordinated with the elimination of
the food subsidies and deregulation of domestic markets;
(b) eliminate distortions within the agricultural sector so as to achieve
a production pattern which reflects the medium-term comparative
advantage of the country in agriculture. This would be done by
correcting the negative protection to efficient rainfed-grown import
substitutes (grain, oil crops) and export crops and reducing
excessive protection to inefficient import substitutes (sugar
crops). It will entail major adjustments in government policies and
intervention mechanisms to ensure that (i) prices actually received
by producers for the rainfed grown-import substitutes are kept closer
to long-term trends on the world market; (ii) there is a gradual but
steady decline in real sugar producer prices towards world market
price trends; and (iii) all input subsidies are eliminated
(irrigation watcr, fertilizer, seeds), except where temporarily
justified to launch new technological break-through. In order to
avoid a deterioration of intersectoral protection patterns, the
reform process will be timed in such a way as to prevent a worsening
of the terms of trade for agriculture; from its present level of
60 percent, a benchmark of about 25-30 percent has been established
for reducing industrial protection, 3/ but in the longer term it is
likely to go down further, which the agricultural sector would follow;
1/ Summarized in Section A (paras. 29 to 64). Further details are in the
President's Report of ASAL-I (Report No. P-4032, May 28, 1985).
21 Details are in Chapter I of the MTASAP Volumes.
3/ As part of the ITPA program.
3 031 E



- 25 -
(c) eliminate the present system of food subsidies across the board, in
combination with the introduction of targeted compensatory programs
for low income groups, based on the combination of marketing of
inferior goods and strengthening of the existing food distribution
programs; and
(d) deregulate domestic marketing and price formation in the
agro-processing and food sector, particularly for major import
substitutes (grain, sugar, edible oils). The objective would be to
promote competition, eliminate costly inefficiencies and rigidities
and thus bring farmgate prices closer to those in final markets, and
to eventually reduce the unit costs of food processing and marketing.
82.      A transition process has been designed to implement the above
medium-term policy framework. The transition period will be a function of the
inherent response times to the new sectoral policy environment, but also the
aggressiveness of the macro-economic adjustment being pursued. The
availability of external resources, the situation in international
agricultural markets, and trade and exchange rate policies, will affect the
pace at which the needed reforms can be implemented. For example, given the
magnitude of the export subsidies-w recently provided by major
food-exporting countries, complete trade liberalization (free trade with no
tariffs) in the short run would risk a substantial increase in imports and
thus run contrary to the target of achieving a current account balance. It
would also not allow enough time for agricultural technology and supply shifts
to take place and would adversely affect income distribution in rural areas.
Simulations made using an econometric model of the grain markets indicate that
immediate trade liberalization without tariff protection would lead to a 27
percent decline in grain production while increased imports would lead to a
corresponding additional deficit of about US$110 million per year in the
balance of payments, and a net loss of at least 250,000 jobs in the grain
sector. Although a similar quantitative analysis was not possible for edible
oils and sugar, the implications on the balance of payments, agricultural
employment and farm income, and on Government revenue would also be severe.
83.      MTASAP's action program for the four major commodity groups is
presented below; ' the specific actions to be implemented within ASAL-II
disbursement timeframe (1987/89) are discussed in Part IV (paras. 112 to 119).
84.      Cereals and Flour.  The grain markets suffer from significant
shortcomings, which differ depending on the cereal concerned and are briefly
reviewed below. The soft wheat market is very tightly controlled by the
Government from farmgate to consumer, with (a) price formation marketing
channels, and external trade entirely regulated; and (b) the consumer price
for soft wheat flour set below both producer and import prices. The study
completed by the Interministerial Task Force under ASAL-I has established that
the present pricing and marketing system for soft wheat has the following
major shortcomings:
1/ Up to 40-50 percent of the cost price in the most efficient producing
countries for cereals.
2/ In parallel with these actions on output prices, agro-processing,
marketing and external trade, the original MTASAP actions to phase out
input subsidies (fertilizer, irrigation water, HYV seed) will be continued.
3031I



- 26 -
(a) inability to maintain domestic producer prices at target levels and
failure to insulate these from the effect of subsidized consumer
prices, and steady deterioration of the domestic marketing system
because of rigid price formation mechanisms and increasing budget
constraints;
(b) income regressiveness of the government-controlled procurement system
because of limited reach and differential access to official
procurement channels among producers and large associated differences
in the use of modern technology;
(c) a consumer subsidy concentrated on imported grain and benefitting
mostly urban areas without being targeted to low income groups; and
(d) unsustainable fiscal burden (equivalent to about 1.3 percent of GDP
in 1985/86).
85.      For barley, which is the other major cereal, and for maize and hard
wheat, which are less important, the pricing and marketing system is less
controlled than that of soft wheat, largely because there is no consumer
subsidy involved. However, the Government sets a floor price at which it is
supposed to buy all quantities supplied by producers to government procurement
outlets, and also prohibits de facto all external trade in those grains. The
major shortcoming of the present pricing and marketing system for barley,
which is potentially exportable in good crop years, is the Government's
monopoly on external trade, which prevents price stabilization through trade
flows. As a result, there are very large fluctuations in market prices
(+60 to 80 percent); in bumper crop years, the Government cannot buy at the
floor price because of budget constraints, and the market usually clears well
below FOB price equivalent; in bad crop years prices rise to very high levels,
and the market clears at prices close to wheat prices or to prices of
competing animal feed.
86.      Accordingly, the MTASAP aims to restore adequate incentives to
cereals producers by: (a) eliminating quantitative restrictions on grain
trade and consequently the need for direct procurement by the Government to
support producer prices; (b) maintaining producer floor prices for imported
grain by appropriate adjustment of import tariffs; (c) liberalizing domestic
marketing regulations and price formation mechanisms in the farm to consumer
chain, and eliminating gradually the consumer subsidy on soft wheat flour.
Quotas and import monopolies, implemented through ONICL, would be eliminated
for all grains (except soft wheat in a first stage because of the remaining
consumer subsidy on soft wheat flour), which would inter alia help to
stabilize the barley market. A limited protection would be granted to
importables (soft wheat, hard wheat, maize) through import tariffs to ensure
that the grain producers do not suffer from negative incentives relative to
303 1E



- 27 -
other agricultural commodities.1' With producer floor prices stabilized
through external trade flows, government-run programs for direct domestic
purchase and storage for price support would be phased out for all grains
except soft wheat, also because of the consumer subsidy on soft wheat flour.
As success would be achieved on reducing overall protective barriers in
industry and as the wide range in protection effectively available to various
commodities is reduced, the protection to the grain sector would also be
reduced. In such a liberalized structure, maintaining an active and flexible
exchange rate policy would be absolutely essential for the grain sector.
87.      Regarding domestic marketing regulation and price formation
mechanisms, the MTASAP's objective is to completely deregulate the marketing
system for all grains and the industrial Elourmilling sector. As mentioned
above (para. 84), the pricing and marketing system for soft wheat is tightly
controlled, as a res-tlt of the consumer subsidy on soft wheat flour.
Consequently, while deregulation of domestic marketing and price formation
would be implemented in a single step for all grains which are not subsidized
at the consumer level (hard wheat, barley, maize), a two-step process will be
required for soft wheat. First, deregulation of domestic marketing between
farmgate and flourmills would be implemented, with a fixed procurement price
still applying at flourmill level; second, further deregulation of the
marketing chain between flourmills and consumers to allow for full competition
on the retail market among multiple flour types and qualities, would be
undertaken after complete elimination of the consumer subsidy on soft wheat
flour expected by 1990. Direct government market intervention through a fixed
procurement price (para. 86) would then be phased out, and replaced by a floor
price mechanism similar to the one applying to other grains. The capacity of
ONICL to monitor the performance of domesLic markets, price behavior
particularly at the farmgate, would need to be strengthened.
88.      Oil Crops and Edible Oils.  This sector constitutes the second
largest outlay on the food subsidies budget (about 35 percent) and Morocco's
self-sufficiency ratio now stands at about 13 percent only (compared to about
30 percent in 1970). Government's intervention takes the form of (a) fixing
1/  For each major tradeable cereal of a pre-specified quality, a floor price
calculated from an international reference price would be announced each
year prior to planting. The international reference price will be based
on FOB prices in efficient exporting countries at the major market where
the cereal in question is traded. The soft wheat international reference
price will be based on Hard Red Winter No. 2, Kansas City Board of Trade
quotations (delivered to the Gulf), while the maize international
reference price will be based on Yellow Corn No. 2, Chicago Board of Trade
quotations (delivered to the Gulf), and the barley reference price on
Canadian Better Feed No. 1, St. Lawrence export values. Minimum
protection to dowcztic production would be achieved by applying a
coefficient of I to 1.25 maximum to the relevant international reference
price.
, I.-.



- 28 -
low consumer prices; (b) controlling internal marketing of oilseeds through a
parastatal; (c) controlling the level and type of imports; and (d) imposing a
fixed processing margin to the industry. These interventions have not only
resulted in losses in domestic output of oilseeds because of official producer
prices1' set consistently about 20-25 percent below world market equivalents,
but also rigidities and inefficiencies in the marketing/processing chain. The
fiscal cost has increased rapidly because of consumer subsidization aggravated
by comfortable processing margins for the refining industry. Administrative
rigidities in import strategy have led to a persistence of oilseed imports for
local crushing despite the increasing cost of this source of supply compared
to others. Finally, the widening of the Government fixed consumer price ratio
between domestically produced olive oil and imported vegetable oils (from 2:1
in 1975 to 3:1 in 1985), has reduced demand for olive oil, for which Morocco
has a distinct comparative advantage in terms of yields and economic cost of
production. Details are in Chapter I of the MTASAP Volumes.
89.      The MTASAP aims to:  (a) reduce the fiscal burden of present
policies; and (b) ensure an adequate price level to producers of efficient
import substitutes (oilseeds and olive) in order to encourage domestic
production. These objectives would be achieved through a complete
deregulation of the domestic processing sector by freeing the entry into
crushing and refining activities and by eliminating the present system of
fixed processing margins and marketing controls, thus permitting private
procurement along the entire chain. In parallel, external trade regime for
edible oils, oilseeds and oilcakes would be liberalized by eliminating
quantitative restrictions. Limited tariffs which ensure that oilseed
producers do not suffer from a net negative protection in relation to other
commodities, would be introduced and would serve as a floor pricing mechanism
for domestically produced substitutes. As in the case of cereals, achievement
of this medium-term objective will require an elimination of the consumer
subsidy on edible oils, which is expected to be achieved by 1990.
90.      Sugar.  With self-sufficiency in sugar in mind (Morocco's
self-sufficiency ratio in sugar increased fast from nil in 1960 to about 65
percent in 1985), the Government has in the past intervened in all aspects of
the sugar market. It fixes consumer prices and establishes mandatory cropping
patterns in all irrigated perimeters which include sugar. rt operates a
system of uniform national producer prices to ensure the financial
profitability of the least efficient producers. The Government also tightly
controls price formation mechanisms in the sugar industry fixing by mark-ups
and depreciation allowances on a mill-by-mill basis.
91.      Analysis of the main issues in the pricing and incentives framework
for sugar production indicated that:
(a) a large proportion (about 80 percent) of the sugar production system
in Morocco is potentially economically viable in Lhe long term;
(b) regional cost differentials in sugar production are substantial;
1/ Actual farmgate prices are probably lower due to operating inefficiency in
parastatal marketing agency.
30 31 E



- 29 -
(c)  the present price fixation mechanisms in agriculture and sugar
industry encourage inefficiency, low capacity utilization in some
regions, and lead to sizeable costs for the Government;l1
(d) the consumer pricing policy, which consists of subsidizing granulated
sugar and lightLy taxing sugarloaf, is not viable; and
(e) contrary to the situation prevailing for cereals and edible oils,
average conEumer prices are now about 40 percent above world market
prices (despite the consumer subsidy).
92.      The MTASAP aims to increase the efficiency of domestic production,
thus reducing the average production cost of sugar in the country so as to
eliminate the net fiscal cost of the sugar policy over five years. This would
be accompanied by a significant reduction in the rate of protection for
domestic production from its present high level (about 60 percent) to a level
close to the average protection for the agricultural sector. In view of the
severe balance of payments constraints, this has to be achieved without
increasing substantially Morocco's dependence on sugar imports. Specific
actions envisaged in the MTASAP are:
(a)  Government would stop its program-' to encourage installation of
additional processing capacity or expansion of existing capacity,
except in specific regions which have been identified as
demonstraLixg the potential for economic production.  Even in those
favorable regions, additional capacity would only be agreed if
existing capacity is fully utilized;
(b) gradual reduction in real terms in the fixed producer prices in a
first stage and the elimination of the panterritorial producer price
in a second stage to encourage a regional specialization in sugar
production. The iimnediate effect would be a reduction in raw
material costs to the mills which would reduce the so-called consumer
"subsidy". Over time, combined with the phase-out of input
subsidies, the least efficient agricultural producers would either be
obliged to improve their productivity or be driven from sugar into
more profitable crops;
(c) deregulation of government-controlled price formation process in the
sugar industry to induce competition among mills. Complete
deregulation of the price formation process in industry would be
achieved in the medium term once past agreements between the
Government and the industrialists regarding leveraging and
depreciation mechanisms for sugar mills32 have expired or are
renegotiated; however, improvements in price fixation by Government
can be introduced in the short term by setting controlled processing
I/  An estimated DE 2.9 billion over 1974-83 (net present value in 1983
prices).
2/  Investment subsidies, guaranteed profits and other incentives.
3/ The sugar industry in Morocco is highly leveraged, and fast depreciation
schedules have been incorporated in the cost-plus pricing system agreed
with the Government. Details are in Chapter I, Appendix 2 of the MTASAP
volumes.
I?nw F41 



- 30 -
margins for the entire industry on the basis of the most efficient
mills. Over time, there would be a shift in the location of the
processing industry, and change in the processing technology;
(d) elimination of the public sector import monopoly and replacement by
free private sector trading accompanied by steadily reducing tariff
schedule to reach target levels by 1993; and
(e) elimination of the distortions in the consumer prices of the various
sugars, to ensure that relative prices fixed by Government of sugar
loaf and granulated sugar reflect structural differences in
processing costs (the current price differential is more than twice
as much in favor of granulated sugar).
93.      Livestock Products.  Government's intervention in the livestock
sector has been characterized by a distinct liberalization trend in the recent
past. Both producer subsidies on milk and consumer subsidies on butter have
been eliminated, and other subsidies to on-farm investments or capital grants
to the dairy industry have been scaled down. The major remaining issue is the
allocation by the Government to selected farmers of a substantial share of
total animal feed supplies to the livestock sector (in the form of sugar beet
pulp and wheat bran) at prices below real economic costs. This intervention
has the following consequences:
(a) it encourages overuse, and provides a disincentive to developing
forage production and using alternative sources of feed for which
Morocco has a large unexploited potential and which are economically
more efficient;
(b) it discourages the feed industry from producing concentrates for
cattle, which hampers the development of meat fattening activities;
(c) in view of the structure of the dairy systems, it has adverse income
distribution effects among dairy producers by favoring better off
producers in the irrigated areas, which are the heaviest users of
bran and pulp; and
(d) it adds to the fiscal cost of the sugar and flour subsidies (about
DH 250 million p.a. in 1984/85).
94.      MTASAP's objective is to restructure relative incentives and improve
domestic resource use by encouraging efficient production systems for animal
feed, milk and meat. This objective will be achieved by the elimination of
the price controls on high value sugar beet pulp, wieat bran, and oil cakes.
Combined with the phasing-out of other input subsidies (such as irrigation
water), this would shift production toward more efficient forage based systems
and improve capacity utilization rates in the concentrate feed manufacture.
In parallel, the large intra-annueJl imbalance in domestic supply of milk,
which has a negative impact on capacity utilization rates in the dairy
industry and leads to costly transformation of excess supply into milk powder,
would be reduced through suitable changes in output pricing policy by
increasing the seasonal differential.
303 I E



- 31 -
95.      Expanding Food Security Programs.  As part of the pricing and
marketing liberalization program, the Government intends to reform the present
food subsidy system. Since the early 1970s, the Government of Morocco has
used food subsidies to achieve the policy goals of stabilizing conisumer
prices, transferring income to the poor, and maintaining lower wage levels
(para. 34). Conservative Bank estimates suggest that if no further price
increases take place, the total budgetary cost of food subsidies could easily
reach about DH 6 billion (US$665 million) in current terms by 1990 or
8 percent of government expenditures.  Recent studies-  have demonstrated
that food subsidies have not only been of limited value in reaching the
purported goaLs, but have become a disincentive to domestic food production
and a major cause of Morocco's current fiscal crisis. The Government has
decided that it cannot afford to continue this level of outlay for a subsidy
program which has such a duDious impact.
96.      Although originally intended to transfer income to low income groups,
the system involves no targeting and thus those who buy the most receive the
greatest benefit. Bank estimates indicate that the lowest 30 percent of the
population by expenditure class receives only 16 percent of the total budget
cost of food subsidies. Although elimination of food subsidies would
therefore be more costly per capita to higher income groups, the most deprived
Moroccans would also be affected seriously. For the lowest 15 percent
considered to be under nutritional risk because they consume a barely adequate
diet or less, total subsidy elimination would involve an average reduction of
approximately 20 percent in real income. In absolute terms, subsidy
termination would mean an estimated annual loss of DH 0.5 billion
(USt55 million) to lowest income households comprising about 3.5 million
people, at least 30 percent of whom would be in rural areas.
97.      As part of the revised and expanded MTASAP, the Government has made a
firm commitment to the principle that poor people should be protected against
the real income losses associated with the planned reduction of food
subsidies. The MTASAP therefore aims at increasing the efficiency and cost
effectiveness of the food subsidy system by more effective targeting on low
income groups (about 3.5 milLion people) through the following actions:
(a) an indirect targeting system, through controlled marketing at subsidized
prices and in specific areas of a substitute flour perceived to be inferior,
but nutritionally superior; and (b) an increase in the coverege of existing
food security programs directly benefitting the low income and vulnerable
consumers. Details are in Chapter II of the KTASAP Volumes.
98.      Targeting the core food subsidy outlays to a single commodity
perceived to be of inferior quality but nutritionally rich and which would be
marketed in specific areas will play a useful role in the Moroccan
compensation strategy. This component of the program would be limited to
wheat flour. It would involve marketing a high extraction rate flour, which
would cost less to produce. This flour would continue to be subsidized but
1/ Morocco: Agricultural Prices and Incentives Study, Report No. 6045-MOR,
May 15, L986, and Morocco: Compensatory Programs for Reducing Food
Subsidies, Report No. 6172-MOR, April 1986.
303 1 E



- 32 -
the volume of subsidized flour marketed1' will be reduced and sold in target
markets, both rural and urban, where the vulnerable groups are located. Such
an approach will aLso produce substantial fiscal savings.-2 However, this
indirect targeting cannot be sufficient; despite controls on the distribution
network, quantities, and geographic coverage, it is likely that some leakages
to higher income groups would still occur.
99.      The other component of the compensation strategy would be to expand
some of the existing food distribution programs32 from their existing
coverage (about 1.9 million) to the entire target group (about 3.5 million
people). - Current food distribution programs would be used as the main
income transfer vehicle for a number of administrative and nutritional
reasons. First, the poverty criteria for participation in existing food
distribution programs correspond closely to the characteristics of those most
in need of compensation for loss of food subsidies. Secondly, use of existing
programs of,ers substantial cost advantages over alternatives since no added
facilities would be needed and except for modest renovation of some
distribution centers, since all programs can accommodate more participants at
current sites.
100.     The costs of the compensation program at full development are
expected to represent no more than 15-20 percent of the cost of present food
subsidies. Of that cost, more than 75 percent would be in food supplies, and
a request to international donors for increased food grants in order to meet
the needs of the expanded program would be made by the Government. Partial
monetization of the incremental food aid would help pay for the operating
costs of the expanded programs.
Promotion of Agro-Industrial Exports
101.     Export of agro-industrial products represents an important and
dynamic source of foreign exchange earning for the Moroccan economy, having
expanded at an average rate of 15 percent p.a. over the past five years,
compared to an average rate of 4 percent p.a. for total exports. Their share
in total exports has increased from about 6 percent in 1980 to over 10 percent
in 1985. rhey also are an important source of employment at low capital
intensity (the ratio of fixed assets to the work force is about 52 percent
below the industry average). Details are in Chapter X of the MTASAP Volume.
102.     Morocco's overall export expansion efforts have been supported by the
Bonk in the framework of two consecutive Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loans (paras. 12-13 and 26). Specific constraints which presently
impede agro-industrial exports from reaching their full potential have been
1/ 80 percent of the total demand at present.
2/ See Chapter I, Appendix 1 of the MTASAP Volumes for details.
3/ The existing food distribution are discussed in detail in the MTASAP
Volume, Chapter II, Section E.
4/ rCiteria to define the target group are discussed in detail in the MTASAP
Volume, Chapter II, Section D.
303 1 E



- 33 -
identified in the following five areas: (a) simplification of trade
procedures (the export quality control system); (b) supply conditions between
producers and agro-industrialists; (c) incentives to the development of
private export marketing channels (trading companies); and (d) export
financing mechanisms.
103.     Simplification of Trade Procedures.  Exports of fresh agricultural
products as well as of processed agro-industrial products are required to pass
a quality inspection at OCE (Office de commercialisation et d'exportation), a
government agency formerly holding the monopoly in export marketing of the
involved products. The fees charged by OCE for export quality control amount
to 1% of the total export value, a relatively high rate by international
standards. Following the elimination of OCE's marketing monopoly in 1986, the
Government has decided to separate the administration of the export quality
control system from OCE and to create an autonomous entity co-managed by the
Government and the profession. A complete revision of the legal statutes,
inpection standards and fee structure is now being started to render the
country's export quality control system more effective. This revision would
be carried out under the MTASAP.
104.     Supply Conditions.  One of the key problems for agro-industrial
producers is the uncertainty of their supplies of agricultural raw materials.
One factor can be regarded as a major influential cause of this uncertainty:
the frequent breach of production contracts which forces industries to supply
themselves on the open market at highly unpredictable and variable prices,
qualities and quantities.  The fixed price production contracts most common in
Morocco offer strong incentives for farmers to breach during bad harvests,
when prices on the market far exceed those set by the processing plants.  It
is generally not feasible for the agro-industrialists to insist on a legal
enforcement of their contracts, since in most product lines they face a large
number of small farmers and a rather lengthy and cumbersome legal process.
Under the MTASAP, the Government proposes to investigate whether alternative
contract structures can be designed, or are already in operation in other
product lines, which provide better incentives for both partners. Actions are
also foreseen to make adaptations in the legal system could also contribute to
a better legal enforcement of existing contracts. Last, incentives are to be
identified which would encourage a better organization of producers/processors
in cooperatives or associations to facilitate the flow of trade and technical
information be-ween the two groups and help to settle disputes.
105.     Export Financing Mechanisms.  In the process of producing an export
good, producers require imported inputs (in the case of agro-industries mainly
packaging materials) which have to be paid in foreign exchange. To receive a
foreign exchange allocation for these purposes, exporters presently have to
wait together with other applicants for foreign exchange allocations for about
three months. The uncertainty involved in this time-consuming process may
cause some serious impediments to expo:t production, particularly if speedy
delivery is crucial. Under the MTASAP, export financing facilities and
mechanisms would be improved, particularly through the creatiun of a revolving
fund in foreign exchange for the financing of working capital of exporting
industries. I'
1/ This is now available to export-oriented industries as part of the
Bank-financed Export Industries Project.
3031K



- 34 -
D                                        Priorities
106.     In parallel with the short-term resLructuring along aigroed criteria
of the portfolio of ongoing operations, the revised and expandod MTASAP
emphasizes the development of medium-Lermn investment priorities and programs
for both the irrigated and rainfed secLors.  Conslderable aidditional work has
been done in thlis area during ASAL-I iniplementation, usling, whenever
applicable, quantltatlive methodologies to screen anld ranlk potential future
projects and programs.  The essential results of this work, which will be used
as a major input in the preparation of the next DevelopmenL Plati, are
summarized below.  Details are In Cliapters III und IV of the MTASAP Volumes.
107.     Future public expenditure strategy for Llhe major subsectors would be
based on the following:
(a)  in lar g-scaleqrri J1tion, all identified potential projects,
totalling about 208,000 ha for an estimated cost of about DlI 6.3
billion (US$565 million) in 1986 prices, have been ranked according
to economic criteria (net benefit-investment ratio). The list of
projects with their economic rates of return and their priority
ranking is in Tables 3 to 5. Results of the detailed economic
analysis confirm that priority will be given to irrigation schemes
already commanded by existing dams or where the primary distribution
infrastructure is already in operation, and to projects based on
low-energy consuming technology or located in the lowest rainfall
zones (Souss, Haouz);
(b) in small- and medium-scale irrigation, where the number of potential
projects is very large and for which similarity in design, size and
investment costs are significant, priority setting has been developed
by establishing a list of specific criteria which would govern the
selection of any project to be financed during the next Plan,
including those to be considered under the Second Small- and
Medium-Scale Irrigation Project, presently under preparation for
possible Bank financing. These criteria would be the following:
(i) an economic rate of return which reflects the opportunity cost of
capital, presently estimated to be at least l1  percent;1'
(ii) rehabilitation of existing schemes only; (iii) schemes where
small- to medium-size farms are predominant (more than 75 percent of
the farms below I ha and covering over 50 percent of the total
irrigated area; (iv) implementation period of t-vo years maximum; and
(v) establishment of water users' associatiuiis grouping all
rightholders prior to project approval in the p4peline;
(c) in livestock, priority would be given to diversification of animal
feed resources (development of local forage, promotion of crop
by-products); to strengthening genetic improvement programs through
greater reliance on cross-breeding vs. imports of purebred stock, and
through wider participation of cooperatives and producers in the
provision of artificial insemination services; to extension efforts
1/ For very small projects (below 100 ha), where ERR calculations are often
difficult or inaccurate, the criteria would be a maximum investment cost
of DH 12,000 (US$1,300) per hectare in 1986 dirhams.
3031E



- 35 -
on the integration of livestock with cereal productions; and on
rangeland improvement programs;
(d) in research, better coordination of expenditures and focus on key
commodities and programs (cereals, livestock genetic improvement and
forage development, oLive and export crops) would be emphasized; in
extension, investments would aim to improve the mobility, the
training and the efficiency of existing staff, without significantly
increasing the present level of total expenditures; and
(e) in forestry, the focus would be on protecting natural forests and
improving the rate of natural regeneration, on pursuing the national
inventory and the forest management plans, and on reforestation and
soil conservation programs.
108.     In addition, a quantitative approach to public expenditures in the
rainfed areas has been developed for the six major agro-ecological zones in
the country. The expenditure strategy would be to allocate limited public
expenditures to low cost, quick yielding investments in those regions which
are the potential for agricultural growth. The methodology developed so far
by Government permits an allocation of funds between regions based on a set of
criteria which reflect the zones of economic, social and agricultural
importance, the present stage of development and potential. Further work is
still needed to prioritize the expenditures between alternative infrastructure
crop, livestock or forestry activities; a government team is expected to
complete this remaining work and to generate a zone-wise expenditure strategy
before June 1988, to facilitate the design of the next development plan.
PART IV - THE LOAN
A. Rationale for the Proposed Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
109.     The Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-II) would
support the second phase (1987/89) of the expanded and refined MTASAP which
covers the 1985-1990 period. it would contribute directly to the achievement
of the medium-term strategy pursued for the country as a whole by helping to
maintain growth while reducing fiscal and external deficits and improving
economic efficiency. Through the preparation of ASAL-lI, the Bank has been
able to help in the monitoring, refining and expanding as well as ensuring the
continual validity of the MTASAP. In addition, ASAL-Il would finance the
import of essential agricultural inputs and spare parts to ensure that the
current adverse balance of payments situation does not deprive the sector of
necessary foreign exchange and disrupt the assured and timely availability of
these essential inputs. Negotiations took place in Washington between August
24 and September 2, 1987. The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. M. Sahel,
Director of the Budget in the Ministry of Finance. A delegation of the
African Development Bank attended the negotiations as observers.
3031E



- 36 -
B. The Action Program under the Loan
110.     The MTASAP presented in Part III involves a series of reform actions
over 1985-1990 which are summarized in the updated matrices in Annex V, and
are based on detailed five-year action plans for each of the major sector
reform themes (paras. 30 and 78). These action plans form the basis for
monitoring the implementation of the overall program.
111.     An update of the original Letter of Sector Development Policy has
been addressed by the Government to the Bank and confirrs the Government's
counitment to the content of the second phase of the program particularly
focusing on the expansion and refinement of the original MTASAP (paras. 77 to
108).I' Under the Loan, selected measures crucial to the second phase of
the adjustment process would be closely monitored, being linked to the release
of the three tranches of the Loan (paras. 134 to 136). A review of the
overall progress of the MTASAP would be undertaken close to the time when the
first and second tranches are fully disbursed and Bank confirmation of the
satisfacLury implementation of the overall program would be a condition for
the respective release of the second and third tranches of the Loan. The
specific policy reform actions which would be implemented within ASAL-II's
disbursments timeframe (1987/89) are reviewed below for each major sector
theme. These include follow-up actions to continue the reforms originated
under the original MTASAP (para. 29), as well as the new elements included in
the MTASAP after its refinement and expansion (para. 77)
Liberaization of the Agricultural and Food Pricing, MarketLng and Trade Regime
112.     To reach the medium-term policy objectives of MTASAP as discussed in
paragraph 81, the Government, within ASAL-Il timeframe, would:
(a) preparation, before the release of the first tranche, of a list
comprising approximately 10% of the agricultural goods currently
falling under the licensing-based regime to be transferred to the
freely importable regime under the 1988 General Import Program
(PGI);3'
(b) before the release of the second tranche, finalize and announce the
timetable of transfer for the remaining commodities, which would
include inter alia: the protection mechanism which would replace the
present quantitative restrictions (ad valorem tariff, reference
pricing, ...), with the level of the proposed tariff for each, which
would be consistent with the ITPA-II program (45 percent maximum);
(c)  before the release of the third tranche, transfer these agricultural
goods from the licensing-based regime to the freely importable regime
according to the timetable established above. 3
1/ Annex IV.
2I/ There are still about 110 agricultural goods falling under the
licensing-based regime ('list B') in the 1987 PGI.
31  Expected to comprise 30% of the commodities involved.  It is expected that
90% of commodities would be moved to the free import regime by early 1991.
3031E



- 37 -
113.     The adoption of a liberalized trade regime with tariff protection
only would not be immediately possible in the case of commodities that are
subsidized at the consumer level (cereals, sugar, oilseed and oil). For these
commodities, the MTASAP objectives (paras. 81 & 82) of domestic marketing
reforms and liberalization of price formation processes, would be implemented
during the disbursement period of ASAL-IL as follows.
114.     Cereals and Flour.  Specific reform actions during 1987/89 would be:
(a)  prior to the release of the first tranche, the Government would adopt
a floor price policy based on world market prices; this would imply
an abandonment of the present approach to establish official producer
prices based on estimated normative costs of production;-  and
(b) elimination of all quantitative restrictions, prior to the release of
the second tranche, by transfer of hard wheat, barley and maize to
the free-import list [para. 112(c)]. In addition, reasonable import
tariffs would be introduced at a level compatible with the ITPA
program [para. 112(b)];
(c) complete deregulation of the marketing system upstream of the flour
mills;1' this would entail the elimination of the system of
traders' licensing which reduces entry and competition, and of the
system of fixed margins and allowances for storage, handling and
transport of grains, lifting the controls on soft wheat procurement
by authorizing millers to buy their soft wheat from any supplier
(private traders, cooperatives) on the domestic market at the
established floor price.-f The necessary legal texts would be
prepared prior to the release of the second tranche and implemented
before the release of the third tranche;
(d) commencement, prior to v.te release of the first tranche, of the
marketing of high extraction rate flour (minimum of 80 percent);
(e) settlement, by December 1988 (monitored prior to the release of the
third tranche) of Government's arrears to millers on account of the
flour subsidy; since these millers are to play a critical role in the
liberalized grain markets, adequate working capital can only be
assured for effective operations by paying the estimated DH 500-600
million of arrears; 4/ and
1/ In the case of soft wheat, administered producer prices, based on the new
formula, would continue until the consumer subsidy across the board on
soft wheat flour is totally eliminated.
2/ Applies to soft wheat, which is the only cereal going through the
industrial flourmilling sector; for all other grains, the set of measures
proposed in (a) would result in a complete liberalization of domestic
marketing (from farm to consumer).
3/ The floor price would include a seasonal premium to encourage on-farm
storage
4/ Details on the arrears situations are in Chapter I of the MTASAP Volumes.
3031E



- 38 -
(f)  execution, before June 1989, of a technical assistance program to the
Grain Marketing Board (ONICL) to develop and adapt its market
monitoring capabilities to the liberalized grain markets (data
collection systems and mechanisms, data processing, efficiency
indicators).1'
The Government has already undertaken an adjustment of the controlled
flourmilling margin to international standards (about DH 15/quintal), as an
interim measure pending deregulation.
115.     Oilcrops and Edible Oils.  To move towards the essential MTASAP's
objectives (para. 88), the specific reform measures to be undertaken within
ASAL-II would be:
(a) commence liberalization, prior to first tranche release, of the
external trade regime on oilcakes;
(b) design, prior to June 1988, of a floor price mechanism for oil crops
by reference to world market price trends implying the abandonment of
the current cost-plus approach to the determination of official
prices along the same lines as for cereals [para. 114(a)]; and
implementation of above mechanism prior to June 1989; and
(c) the hiring of consultants before second tranche release, to develop a
deregulation action plan involving the elimination of all existing
licensing requirements for private sector investments in crushing and
refining activities and the termination of the system of
government-fixed processing and marketing margins and prices in the
marketing/processing chain; the resulting action plan would be
implemented according to the timetable agreed upon by third tranche
release.
116.     Sugar Sector.  The second phase of the study on sugar industry based
on TORs agreed with the Bank and which includes, inter alia, recommendations
on the options for restructuring the sugar production system in the Moulouya
region and the rationalization of the price formation mechanisms in the sugar
industry, has been compLeted and will lead to the definition of an operational
plan for deregulation of the sector over a five-year period beginning in July
1988. To achieve this and other MTASAP objectives (para. 92), the essential
reform actions to be taken within ASAL-II timeframe woutld be:
(a)  the Government would terminate its programs to encourage the
establishment of additional sugar processing capacityAZ' except in
specific regions where potential for economic production has been
demonstrated, and only when full utilization of the existing
sugarmilling capacity has been achieved;
1/  The detailed technical assistance program is in Chapter I, Appendix 1 of
the MTASAP Volumes.
2/  Government's clearance is required to undertake the construction of new
sugarmills and specific investment subsidies and guaranteed profits are
also provided.
3031 E



- 39 -
(b)  the Government would freeze, prior to the first tranche release, the
administered producer prices in real terms by limiting the
adjustments to inflation and freezing the special premia granted to
selected backward regions at their L986 nominal level (DH 25/ton of
sugar beet and DH 40/ton of sugar cane); the administered producer
prices would be reduced in real terms before second and third tranche
release by limiting adjustments to inflation less at least one and
two percent respectively; and
(c? to adopt, prior to second tranche release, an operational plan agreed
with the Bank concerning the deregulation of the sugar industry
including the elimination of all regulatory controls on the price
formation mechanism of sugar. As a transitional step, unique
processing and refining margins would be fixed at industry level (to
replace the present mill-specific negotiated margin based on costs
and pre-set return on equity). The continued implementation of the
deregulation plan according to the agreed timetable would be a
condition of third tranche release.
117.     Livestock Products.  To achieve MTASAP's objectives (para. 94),
measures to be undertaken within the ASAL-II timeframe would be:
(a) the elimination of the price control and quota based distribution
systems for wheat bran prior to the first tranche release, thus
permitting private flour mills to sell bran at market clearing
prices; private sugar mills would now sell dried sugarbeet pulp at
cost to sugarbeet farmers; and
(b) to maintain the recently increased seasonal output price differential
on domestically supplied milk at 20 percent in 1988 and increase it
beyond 20 percent in 1989.
118.     Pricing and Marketing of Agricultural Inputs.  To achieve the
MTASAP's objectives (para. 37) to eliminate the distortionary effects of input
subsidies (fertilizer, irrigation water, HYV seed) and to achieve gradual
government withdrawal from direct input distribution activities, the following
essential actions would be undertaken within ASAL-II timeframe:
(a) fertilizer reference prices would be increased twice, each as a
condition of release of the second and third tranches, so as to reach
complete elimination of the subsidy by the end of 1989. This would
currently imply a weighted average increase of 11 percent in
reference prices in both 1988 and 1989; however, in view of changing
world market prices, the Bank would be prepared to recalculate the
actual percentage increase in 1989;
(b) new criteria were developed prior to negotiations and agreed with the
Bank to tighten those implemented under ASAL-I for closing down
government- managed fertilizer distribution outlets; 80 percent of
the remaining government-managed fertilizer distribution outlets
meeting the new criteria would be closed down over 1988/89 (40%
before the release of the second tranche and the remainder before the
release of che third tranche);
30311



- 40 -
(c)  the water charges recovery as a proportion of amounts due would reach
75 percent for 1987 and 82 percent for 1988; and
(d)  the freeze on total subsidies to HYV cereal seed users at their 1984
nominal level (DH 34 million) would continue, and these subsidies
would continue to be restricted to specific new varieties of hard
wheat and barley for low rainfall regions.
119.     Expansion of the Food Security ProRrams.  To achieve the MTASAP's
objective of protecting low income groups from the adverse effects of food
subsidies elimination, a National Interministerial Commission for the
Coordination of Food Aid as the agency responsible for completing the design
of the operational plan for selective food aid expansion has already been
designated. Specific actions within ASAL-II timeframe would be:
(a) the preparation, prior to the release of the first tranche, of the
tequired program for targeting of the consumer subsidy on flour, by
(i) concentrating the subsidy on a higher extraction rate flour; and
(ii) fixing physical quotas of production for this subsidized type of
flour by mill and by region according to estimated demand by low
income groups; and prior to the release of the second tranche
allowing the millers to sell all other types of flour (at various
extraction rates) on the free market;
(b)  the preparation, prior to the release of the first tranche, for
discussion with the Bank, of the detailed phased plans1' for
expansion of the selected existing compensation programs (Entraide
Nationale, School Feeding, PSME and Promotion Nationale) to levels
sufficient to constitute adequate aggregate compensation to poor
people placed at greater nutritional risk by the phased consumer food
subsidy reduction; and
(c)  the launching, before the release of the second tranche, of the
compensation programs as agreed with the Bank in (b) above.
Continued implementation of these plans would be a condition of third
tranche release.
Priorities in Public Expenditures Programs
120.     MTASAP's objective is not only to ensure that all available resources
are devoted to the completion of the core program defined under ASAL-I, but
also to establish a more comprehensive medium-term framework for setting
public expenditure priorities in agriculture (para. 106). Accordingly, the
following measures and actions would be taken during the ASAL-II
implementation period (1987/89):
(a) allocation of adequate budgetary appropriations and commitments to
the agricultural core investment program to permit its timely
completion. In 1987, the government allocated 15 percent of total
appropriations and commitments to MARA investment budgets. The
continued adequate allocation for 1988 and 1989 would be conditions
for first and third tranche release respectively;
1I/ Detailed Bank proposals for a phased 2-year program are in Chapter II of
the detailed MTASAP Volumes. Partial monetization of the incremental food
aid would cover the additional operating costs of the expanded programs.



- 41 -
(b)  continued implementation by MARA of the quantitative analysis on the
priority ranking of new large-scale irrigation projects based on a
methodology agreed with the Bank (net benefit investment ratio); and
(c) prioritization by MARA of the Government's development and support
programs (rural infrastructure, soil conservation, land
restructuration, rangeland improvement, credit) in each homogeneous
rainfed agricultural region based on the methodology developed and
agreed with the Bank.1'
Streamlining and Reorganization of Agricultural Support Services
121.     Research.  To achieve the MTASAP's objectives (para. 48), the focus
under ASAL-II would be on further strengthening the National Agricultural
Research Institute. During ASAL-I1, the Government would start the
implementation of the medium-term research priorities for the major
agricultural products, based on the substantial groundwork done in
collaboration with ISNAR and CGIAR experts in the context of ASAL-I. The
following measures would be taken during ASAL-II timeframe:
(a) establishing, before January 1988, the new financing procedures and
mechanisms between INRA and the Government and the revised
programming methods for the preparation of INRA's annual budgets by
(i) providing global quarterly allocations to INRA; (ii) simplifying
budget processing and introducing a posteriori control of use of the
agreed allocation; and (iii) preparing program budgets based on
research priorities for each crop; and actual implementation of the
above by June 1988;
(b) upgrading, before June 1988, of key selected positions (about 12) to
increase the number of senior agricultural researchers for priority
programs; and
(c) upgrading, before June 1988, the personnel grading and career
development status of agricultural researchers in line with those of
equivalent positions in other fields (which have recently been
modified).
122.     Extension.  To achieve MTASAP's objective (para. 46) of improving the
pace of transfer of available technologies to farmers, one of the actions
already undertaken has been to increase the number of extension agents in each
of the 28 pilot CTs to at least 6. In addition, the focus within ASAL-II
timeframe would be on completing the reorganization of the extension structure
by:
(a) creating, by June 1988, a separate service out of existing staff for
extension at the DPA level and completing, before January 1988, the
establishment of subject matter specialist (SMS) teams in
DPAs/ORMVAs; and
(b) regrouping existing staff to create, prior to second tranche release,
1/  Details are in Chapter IV of the MTASAP Volumes.
3031C



- 42 -
a separate division for extension at the central level in MARA, with
SMS and training units.
123.     Livestock Services.  MTASAP's objective of withdrawing the public
sector from commercially viable livestock services would be further pursued
under ASAL-Il. Prior to the release of the third tranche, animal health
services would be privatized in 20 additional zones, and artificial
insemination services would be transferred to cooperatives in L5 zones.-   A
start would also be made during ASAL-II implementation to transfer natural
breeding centers to producers' organizations in selected areas, where
Government's divestiture from the management of these centers is possible and
desirable.
Promotion of Agro-industrial Exports
124.     To achieve the MTASAP's objectives (para. 102) for promoting
agro-industrial exports, the specific measures already undertaken include the
creation of a national committee consisting of representatives of the
administration and professional associations to review the existing legal
statutes and inspection standards of the country's quality control system for
agriculture based products and the setting up of a revolving fund in foreign
exchange in the commercial banking sector to finance working capital needs of
exporters. Additional action envisaged within ASAL-II timeframe involves the
carrying out of a study under TORs agreed with the Bank-' before June 1988
on existing contract structures and forms of organization in the
agro-industrial sector, and publication of its results in a form accessible to
farmers, agro-industrialists and their associations, including the promotion
of alternative standard contracts before June 1989.
Improving the Management of Natural Resources and Land Policy
125.     To achieve MTASAP's objective of improving natural resource
management (para. 61), the Government has appointed an Interministerial
Commission to complete the design of a legal and technical package to reduce
illegal cutting, increase natural regeneration of forests, and improve
forestry range management. The following actions would be taken within
ASAL-Il timeframe:
(a)  Submission, before June 1989, of the findings of the Commission3'
to the Council of Government; and
(b)  execution, before June 1988, with technical assistance of a study4'
to review domestic and foreign market options for industrial wood
products to better assess reforestation priorities by species.
1/ This would bring to 40 the additional number of zones where health
services would have been privatized during the ASAL-II timeframe: on the
basis of present livestock distribution by province, these 40 zones
represent about 25 percent of the total herd. An initial privatisation
carried out on a pilot basis under ASAL-I concerned 20 zones. Details are
in the MTASAP Volumes, Chapter VII.
2/ Detailed TORs are in Chapter X of the MTASAP Volumes.
3/  The Commission would also review the organization and management of the
Forest Service.
4/ Detailed TORs are in the Chapter VIII of the MTASAP volumes.
sn  . I  F



- 43 -
126.     To achieve MTASAP's objective of promoting better utilization of the
country's agricultural land resources (paras. 58-59), actions to be undertaken
by Government during the ASAL-II implementation period would be:
(a) the preparation of a priority cadastral mapping and land registration
and titling program for 1988-1992; and
(b) the preparation, before June 1988, of a priority program for
economically and technically viable land consolidation operations.
Strengthenig of Sectoral Policy Alysis Capabilities
127.     The focus under ASAL-II would be on designing a three-year work
program for the policy analysis unit in the Ministry of Agriculture using the
TA available under other projects. This technical assistance program, which
is detailed in Chapter XII of the MTASAP Volume, would be based on:
(a)  an updating of the computerized database and analytical tools
developed during the course of the Prices and Incentives study and
which are now operational on MARA's computers;
(b)  the setting-up of additional analytical tools necessary for policy
analysis (production and supply functions, computerized farm budgets,
sector model, ...); and
(c) the development of monitoring system for policy action and policy
performance would be developed. Based on the successful experience
gained under ASAL-I implementation, the monitoring framework has been
expanded to encompass the expanded adjustment program, so as to
facilitate ASAL-II implementation and further develop Government's
capacity in that area (see Chapter XI of the MTASAP Volume for
details).
C. Loan Administration
Eliible Goods
128.     The proposed Loan of US$225.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of priority imported inputs needed for the sector, as follows:
LIST OF ELIGIBLE IMPORTS
Item                                             Indicative Amount
(US$ million)
1.  Agricultural machinery and spare parts                      100.00
2.  Seeds & Seedlings                                            25.00
3.  Pesticides and herbicides                                    20.00
4. Animal feed, veterinary medicines and
cattle for genetic improvement                              23.75
5.  Petroleum products (maximum)                                 56.25
TOTAL                                              225.00
In view of Bank's policy on the procurement of hazardous materials, only those
agricultural chemicals used for plant protection and weed control for which



- 44 -
the Bank deems that satistactory storage and handling procedures are in place
would be financed by the Loan.
Procurement
129.     Procurement procedures to be followed would be essentially identical
to the ones used for ASAL-I, which have proved efficient and satisfactory.
Procurement of eligible imports by the private sector would be made following
the purchaser's normal practices, except when any one contract is US$5.0
million or more; in that case, international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with World Bank guidelines for adjustment lending would be used.
For tractors and other farm machinery or equipment, the normal procurement
procedures of the importer would apply regardless of the amount of the
contract. Tractors and other agricultural equipment are purchased under open
market conditions in which many reputable importers of equipment have set up
retail and service networks; there is no bar on entry. This will be indicated
in a General Procurement Notice intended to inform all potential suppliers.
Imports of petroleum products would follow the normal procurement procedures
of the borrower, and would be carried out under existing bilateral agreements
with oil exporting countries based on market prices or on the spot market
through direct negotiation according to industry practices. These
arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of eligible imports by
the public sector would be done by ICB in accordance with World Bank
guidelines, except in the case of contracts costing below US$2.0 million each,
up to an aggregate of US$15.0 million, which would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of written quotations solicited from a list of three foreign
suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines. Items which the Bank considers of a
proprietary nature would be procured by negotiated contract, following
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Review by the Bank of procurement
decisions would follow the standard procedures used in adjustment lending. In
the case of imports of maize for animal feed, the Bank would also review
bidding documents prior to the issuance of invitations to bid on the first
contract.
Disbursement
130.     The Bank of Morocco would have primary responsibility for the
financial administration of the proposed loan. Disbursements from the Loan
account would be made against 100% of the foreign exchange costs (CIF) of
eligible imports. Disbursements for contracts procured through ICB would be
made against fully documented withdrawal applications following standard
procedures used in adjustment lending. Disbursements for other items would be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE) from the Bank of Morocco
detailing individual transactions in a given period, together with a
certification of payment of the amounts involved, and of their eligibility
under the Loan. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the
Bank of Morocco and withdrawal would be consolidated and submitted in amounts
not less than US$1.0 million. There would be a US$56.25 million maximum on
financing of petroleum products representing 25% of the Loan amount. The Loan
is expected to be fully disbursed within 24 months of effectiveness. While no
composite profiles are yet available for sector lending operations in the
region, the experience with ASAL-I suggests that disbursement will be achieved
within the time period indicated. The Closing Date would be March 31, 1990.
Counterpart funds generated by the proceeds of the Loan are expected to be
used for financing priority investments from the public investment program.
Disbursements for potentially hazardous agricultural chemicals would be



- 45 -
against a limited list as mentioned in paragraph 128. A special account with
an authorized allocation of US$25 million would be established at the Bank of
Morocco in order to ensure the smooth disbursement of the Loan. In order to
facilitate a smooth flow of necessary imports for the sector, retroactive
financing for eligible imports undertaken after January 1, 1987 would be
permitted up to an aggregate amount of US$25 million.
Accounts and Audit
131.     The Bank of Morocco would maintain records of all transactions under
the Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. Not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, all accounts, would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports
would include a separate opinion with regard to the claims submitted to the
Bank on the basis of SOE.
Release of Funds andT
132.     The proceeds of the Loan would be made eligible for withdrawal in
three tranches of US$75 million each, the first upon Loan effectiveness and
the second and third, when conditions for their release have been met. The
conditions for release of each tranche would relate to the actual
implementation of specific measures which are crucial to the overall
implementation of MTASAP's second phase. An exchange of views between the
Bank and the Borrower on the status of implementation of the MTASAP would take
place approximately six months after effectiveness and prior to each tranche
release. After this exchange of views, the Bank may cancel any undisbursed
part of the Loan upon 90 days notice if the progress achieved is unsatisfactory
and no adequate remedial actions have been undertaken by the Borrower.
133.     Essential measures and actions which were accomplished by the
Government before negotiations were:
(a) the establishment of the mechanism and timetable for the settlement
of government arrears to the milling sector over 1987/88
[para. 114(e)];
(b) the increase of controlled flourmilling margins to international
standards (about DH 15/quintal) [para. 114];
(c) the completion of the second phase of the study on the sugar industry
based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank [para. 1161;
(d) the transmission to the Bank of the revised and stricter criteria
for closing down government-run fertilizer distribution outlets
[para. 118(b)];
(e)  the designation of the National Interministerial Commission for the
Coordination of Food Aid as the agency responsible for completing the
design of the operational plan for food a'd expansion [para. 119];
(f) the confirmation by the Government to the Bank of its allocation of a
minimum 15 percent of its total investment budget (appropriations and
commitments) to MARA for completion of the 1987 core program
[para. 120(a)I.
3031E



- 46 -
(g)  the increase in the seasonal producer price differential for milk to
20 percent [para. 117(b)];
(h)  the achievement of a collection rate of atleast 66 percent for water
charges (including arrears) in 1986 [para. 68(a)]; and
(i   the privatization of animal health services in 20 additional zones
[para. 1231.
134.     Conditions of Loan effectiveness - or the release of the first
tranche -, on which action is now well advanced and expected to be completed
before the end-1987, would be:
(a)  the issuance of the first list of agricultural goods to be
transferred to the freely importable regime (list A) of the General
Import Program (PCI) with the level of tariff protection and
mechanism to be used [para. 112(a)]; oilcakes would be included in
this list [para. 115(a)];
(b)  the implementation of the first phase of the grain pricing and
marketing reform, including: (i) adopting mechanisms for setting
producer floor prices based on world market prices; and (ii)
commencement of marketing of high extraction rate flour [para. 114(a)
and (d)];
(c)  the liberalization of price and marketing controls on bran and sugar
beet pulp [para. 117(a)];
(d)  to limit the producer price adjustments for sugar in 1987 to
inflation and to freeze the special price premia granted to some
sugar Producing regions at their 1986 nominal levels (para. 116(b)];
(e)  the issuance of the final plan concerning the targeted compensatory
program for the elimination of food subsidies [para. 119(b)]; and
(f)  the allocation of adequate budgetary appropriations and commitments
in the proposed 1988 budget to the agricultural core investment
program to permit its timely completion [para. 120(a)]
135.     The conditions for the release of the second tranche, expected to
take place mid-1988, would be:
(a)  the actual transfer of agricultural goods mentioned in paragraph
134(a) from the licensing-based to the freely importable regime
(list B to list A); issuance of the mechanism and timetable for the
transfer of the remaining agricultural goods to the freely importable
regime [para. 112(b)];
(b)  the preparation of an action plan (including draft legal texts and
operating procedures) for implementing the grain pricing and
marketing reform, including: (i) elimination of quantitative
restrictions for all grains (except soft wheat); and (ii)
deregulation of the grain marketing system between farmgate and flour
mills for all grains; application of the new producer price setting
methodology [para. 114]; and the elimination of price controls
3031 E



- 47 -
on the non-jubsidized types of flours and authorization for the
milling sector to produce various flour qualities for the free market
[para. 119(a)];
(c)  the hiring of consultants to develop a deregulation action plan for
the edible oils subsector, to include the eliminiation of the
controlled crushing and refining margins and administered prices for
edible oils and elimination of the licensing requirements for private
sector investments in crushing and refining activities [para. 115(c)];
(d)  to limit the producer price adjustments for sugar crops in 1988 to
inflation less 1 percent and continued freeze on special price premia
at their 1986 nominal levels (para. 116(b)]; and, for milk,
maintaining the seasonal producer price differential at 20 percent
[para. 117(b)];
(e)  the compliance with the input subsidies phase-out program, comprising
(i) an increase in weiglited average fertilizer reference prices of 11
percent in 1988; and (ii) achievement of a collection rate of 75
percent for water charges (including arrears) in 1987 [para. 118(a)
and (c)1;
(f)  the actual closing down of at least 40 percent of the government-run
fertilizer distribution outlets meeting the revised criteria
[para. 118(b)];
(g)  the launching of the first phase of the targeted compensatory program
for low income groups as agreed with the Bank in paragraph 134(e)
[para. 119(c)];
(Ih) the transfer of artificial insemination services to the private
sector or producers' groups in 5 additional zones (para. 123);
(i)  the creation of a separate division for extension in MARA
[para. 122(b)]; and
(j)  the adoption of an agreed upon operational plan for the deregulation
of the sugar industry to include the elimination of all regulatory
controls on the price formation mechanism of sugar [para. 116(c)1
136.     The conditions for the release of the third tranche expected to take
place mid-1989, would be:
(a)  the liberalization of the external trade regime in agriculture
according to the timetable mentioned in paragraph 135(a)
[para. 112(c)];
(b)  the actual implementation of the new grain pricing and marketing
system, including adoption of new legal framework for the operation
of the liberalized system of domestic marketing; settlement of
arrears to millers; and continued application of the new producer
price setting methodology [para. 1141;
(c)  the actual implementation of the deregulation action plan for the
edible oils subsector according to an agreed-upon timetable
[para. 113(c));



- 48 -
(d) to limit the producer price adjustments for sugar crops in 1989 to
inflation less 2 percent and continued freeze on special price premia
at their 1986 nominal levels [para. 116(b)]; and, for milk,
increasing the seasonal producer price differential beyond 20 percent
in 1989 [para. 117(b)];
(e) the compliance with the input subsidies phase-out program, comprising
(i) an increase in weighted average fertilizer reference prices of 11
percent in 1989; however, the Bank would be prepared to recalculate
the acLual percentage increase in view of changing world niarket
prices; and (ii) achievement oa a collection rate of 82% for water
charges (including arrears) in 1988 [para. 118(a)and(c)J;
(f) the actual closing down of an additional 40 percent of the
government-run fertilizer distribution outlets meeting the revised
criteria [para. 118(b)];
(g) the continuation of the targeted compensaLory program for low income
groups as agreed withi the Bank in paragraph 134(e) [para. 119(c)];
(h)  the actual privatization of animal health services in 20 additional
zones and transfer of artificial insemination services to the private
sector or producers' groups in 10 additional zones Ipara. 123];
(i) the carrying out of the 1988 core investment program and the
allocation of adequate budgetary appropriations and conmitments to
the agricultural core investment program in 1989 to permit its timely
completion [para. 120(a)]; and
(j) the continued implementation of the sugar industry deregulation plan
according to the agreed timetable [para. 116(c)].
D. Management, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
137.     An Interministerial Review Committee was set up during ASAL-I to
oversee and monitor the overall progress of the program. This committee, now
headed by the Minister of Economic Affairs, and including representatives of
the Ministries of Interior, Finance, Commerce & Industry, Plan, Public Works &
Vocational Training and Agriculture & Agrarian Reform, played a useful,
coordinating role during ASAL-I and preparation of ASAL-II and would continue
to oversee the implementation of the MTASAP during the ASAL-lI period.
Day-to-day management and coordination of the MTASAP would continue to be the
prime responsibility of the Secretary General of MARA, who would head a
monitoring committee set up by the Minister of Agriculture and composed of
MARBA directors drawing on support from other Ministries as required. The
Secretariat support for the Monitoring Committee would be provided by DPAE,
which would prepare the periodic status reports on the action programs for
each sub-sector.
138.     During the preparation/appraisal process of ASAL-I, the need for
developing a sound monitoring system to track and adjust the MTASAP as needed
was established and the major institutional weakness - lack of capacity for
doing this - was identified. Under ASAL-I, action was sought on strengthening
the monitoring capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture which executed
personnel and structural changes to ensure that the monitoring function
3031K



- 49 -
received adequate attention. These monitoring and evaluation arrangements
which proved satisfactory during ASAL-I implementation, would be continued.
139.     The monitoring system to be used during ASAL-I1 implementation, and
which is based on the experience gained under ASAL-I, would consist of four
parts:
(a) the Status of the Adjustment Program. Using the Sector Development
Policy Letter as the base document, this segment of the system tracks
all monitorable actions under the control of Government. This is
further split into two parts: Ci) Status of Formal Actions under the
Loan (actions which are included in the legal documents as actions to
be accomplished prior to the release of the three tranches of the
Loan); and (ii) Status of Parallel Adjustment Action (the monitorable
actions under the control of Government which are in the Policy
Letter, but in order to reduce the formal loan conditionality, were
judged to be not part of the key themes of the MTASAP); this second
segment provides the data base (or a Bank certification of the
satisfactory implementation of the overall adjustment program
required as a condition for tranche release;
(b) the Policy Performance Assessments. This segment aims to monitor in
a quantitative manner, the changes in policy variables in response to
the adjustment actions taken by the Government. In a set i tables,
one for each policy area or subsector, factors such as input
consumption, marketing system changes, flow of subsidies, budget
allocations and expenditures patterns, relative prices, water charge
collection, self-financing ratios of irrigation offices, extension
reorganization, credit flow and recovery, are monitored;
Cc) the Production Results. This segment is for monitorable responses,
but not necessarily under the control of Government or directly
attributabLe to the implementation of the adjustment programs. A set
of tables follow production performance, imports and exports; and
(d) the Loan Administrat.on. This segment deals with the procurement and
disbursement activities under the Loan. The various inputs financed
by the Loan are compared with total imported inputs consumed in the
sector.
140.     Given the substantial feedback which would be provided by the
monitoring system, specific evaluation efforts during ASAL-Il are expected to
focus on: (a) tracking impact of the priring, marketing and trade policy
package on production, consumption, balance of payments, budgetary savings,
and farm income, based on the extensive quantitative work undertaken during
the preparation/appraisal process (para. 143); this evaluation concern has
been incorporated in the design of the technical assistance programs to DPAE
(para. 127) and ONICL (parn. 114). Details are in Chapter IX of the MITASAP
Volumes.
3031E



- 50 -
E. Economic and Social Impact and Risk
141.     The reforms undertaken by the Government under the MTASAP support the
macro-economic adjustment with growth program by fundamentally changing the
direction of agricultural and food policies towards price and trade
liberalization and promotion of efficient import-substitutes and exports.
They represent a recognition that the agricultural sector has the potential to
be a major contributor in the Long-term growth of the economy and is
fundamental in assuring improved living conditions for the country's poorest
groups, about 80 percent of which live and work in the rural areas.
142.     The adjustment measures to be undertaken within ASAL-II timeframe are
expected to have a favorable impact on sectoral productivity and on both the
balance of payments and fiscal deficits. They would also improve the
efficiency of investment in agriculture by shifting public resources to
priority activities, and promoting private sector investmenit. Last but not
least, they are also expected to improve income distribution patterns in the
sector and to minimize the social costs of adjustment for the urban poor and
rural landless groups.
143.     A quantitative assessment of the impact of the proposed agricultural
and food pricing, marketing, and trade policy package on production,
consumption, balance of payments, government budget, farm profitability and
farm incomes, and on low income groups, has been attempted, using analytical
tools developed in the context of recent sector work (Agricultural Prices and
Incentives Study2-' and Compensatory Programs to Elimination of Food
Subsidies)."' The analysis was carried out by subsector for the individual
and overall elements of the proposed policy package. It takes into account,
to the extent possible in the absence of a sector-wide model, the
inter-relationships between commodities within a subsector and between
commodity groups across subsector.  Estiwates were made of the incremental
impact of the proposed measures over the "without adjustment" situation which
assumes a continuation of pre-MTASAP policies based on observed trends.
Chapter IX of the MTASAP volumes present the detailed quantitative analysis of
the economic and social impact, which is summarized below.
144.     The estimated impact over 1987-1991 of government actions to be
undertaken under its sector adjustment program would be as follows:
(a)  aggregate agricultural growth would be slightly higher (by about
0.5 percent p.a.) than in the "without adjustment" situation; this
aggregate performance would reflect an increase in the production of
rainfed grown commodities (grains, oil crops), which would more than
offset an expected decline in sugar production. In addition,
adjustments in irrigated cropping patterns would take place with
forage, vegetables, and soft wheat increasing their share at the
expense of sugar crops (para. 145); aggregate consumption would not
be drastically affected, except for soft wheat flour (para. 147);
1I Report No. 6045-MOR, May 1986.
2/ Report No. 6172-MOR, April 1986.
3031E



- 51 -
(b) the budgetary costs of the agricultural and food policies would be
substantially lower than in the without adjustment situation as a
result of the combined actions on input pricing and marketing, price
formation in the agro-processing and marketing chains, and targeting
of the food subsidies (para. 148);
(c) substantial net foreign exchange savings would result from a
reduction in grain trade deficit, despite an expected slight increase
in sugar imports (para. L49);
(d) farm incomes would improve in the grain and oil crops sector, while
sugar producers would face a potential decline of net private
profitability; without productivity increases, some sugar producers
in the least efficient regions would have to shift to other irrigated
crops and intensive dairy farmers making a heavy use of wheat bran
and sugar beet pulp in their feed mix would be driven towards a
higher use of efficient low-cost substitutes to maintain the
profitability of their operations (para. 150);
(e) overall, the protection rate to agriculture as a whole would rerain
in the same range as at present (15-20 percent), with a much narrower
differential among commodity groups; this level would still be below
the present and projected protection level for industry; and
(f) as far as the poverty impact of the package is concerned, low income
groups would benefit in several ways: (i) the proposed reform
program would help redress income distribution patterns in the rural
areas by improving incentives in favor of rainfed agriculture which
employs over 80% of the rural population including its poorest
segments, as opposed to irrigated agriculture which has been the
chief beneficiary of Government policies in the past (para. 150); and
(ii) the urban and landless rural poor would be protected from the
gradual elimination of food subsidies by a targeted compensation
program (para. 151).
145.     Production Impact.  While aggregate agricultural growth would remain
very close to the base case expectations (situation without adjustment), its
composition would change: grain production would be slightly higher (about
0.5 percent p.a.) due to the combined effect of output, consumer, and
fertilizer price adjustments. Production of oil from domestic oils seeds
would also be higher by about 2 percent p.a., but sugar production would be
lower by about 2-3 percent p.a. in response to declining real producer prices
and input subsidy elimination. The increase in seasonal price differential
for milk would cause a shift in production from peak season to lean season of
around 2 percent p.a., but would not affect total supply response. The
changes in animal feed price (maize, oil cakes), reflected in production costs
for poultry, would affect demand for and supply of both broilers and eggs, by
1 to 2 percent p.a. Although the reduction of input subsidies would translate
into increased production costs for the producers of export crops, it has been
assumed that these would be fully offset by exchange rate adjustments and by
past and projected export promotion measures. In view of the production
performance of the export crops subsector during the initial phase of the
adjustment program (+14.6 percent over 1985/86), the assumption that the net
effect of the second phase would be neutral, is conservative.
3031E



- 52 -
146.     The restructuring of the public investment program should increase
the proportion of directly productive and quick yielding investments, and lead
to lower ICORs in the next few years. Improvements of the support services
(extension, livestock, research) should in the longer term help to achieve
better yields and herd performance. The proposed land policy measures
(incentives to farm restructuring, security of tenure) should also encourage
increased land productivity and on-farm investments. Finally, efforts to
conserve the natural resource base should lead to long-term benefits to
protect Morocco's production potential.
147.     Consumption Impact.  The impact on aggregate consumption, as a result
of the planned gradual elimination of consumer subsidies and of agricultural
price movements for other goods, would be negligible or minor except for soft
wheat flour, where demand would be lower than in the base case by about
4-5 percent p.a.- Substitution by hard wheat would be expected to occur.
This is either because demand is relatively price inelastic (sugar, oils), due
to the nature of the good involved or to slow changing consumer habits, or
because expected price changes themselves would be small (milk, poultry).
Also, change in relative prices of competing products within a commodity
group, as in the case of sugar, would not affect overall consumption, but
would slow down by about 2.5 percent p.a. the pace of substitution of loaf
sugar by granulated sugar. Total consumer surplus would nonetheless be
reduced.
148.     Impact on Public finance.  The impact of the adjustment program on
public finance would be the savings from reduced government payments for input
subsidies, for the sugar price support program, for transfers to
agro-industries or marketing parastatals, and for consumer subsidies. These
policy measures would generate fiscal savings over the base case situation
ranging from about DH 1 billion (US$110 million) in the first year to
DR 4.5 billion in the fifth year of the adjustment program (US$495 million).
The most important source of savings would be the package of measures in the
grain/flour sector, which would account for about 55 percent of the
total.-  Cost reduction measures in the sugar system (agriculture,
industry, consumer pricing) would yield about 20 percent of the total expected
savings. The input subsidy phase-out program (fertilizer, seed, animal feed,
irrigation water) and thp gradual withdrawal of the public sector from the
1/  Consumer price increases would range from 2 percent p.a. to 10 percent
p.a. in real terms depending on the commodities involved. Details are in
Chapter IX of the MTASAP Volumes.
2/  Based on producer floor and projected import prices for soft wheat, with
the proposed elimination of price controls on wheat bran and the upwards
adjustment of the flourmilling margins, a reduction of the total marketed
volume of subsidized high extraction rate flour to about 50 percent of
total flour demand (which would therefore still reach more than the
targeted low income groups) wou.d entirely eliminate the net cost of the
flour subsidy to the Government by 1988. Proceeds from the existing levy
on soft wheat imports would then be sufficient to finance the remaining
targeted consumer subsidy. Details are in Chapter I of the MTASAP
Volumes, Appendix 1.
*,3  I E  



- 53 -
provision of commercial services below real costs would yield another
20 percent. The complete deregulation of the edible oils sector f tm farm to
consumer would yield the remainder.
149.     Impact on the Balance of Payments.  The net impact on the balance of
payments would be positive, at about US$50-55 million p.a. over the five-year
period.-'  An improvement in the trade balance is expected in the cereals
subsector, due essentially to exports of barley and a reduced import bill for
soft wheat. On the other hand, a worsening in the balance of payments account
is expected in the sugar subsector, because of lower domestic production, and
in the edible oil subsector, where deregulation and trade liberalization
should lead inter alia to the replacement of an inefficient domestic crushing
process of imported oilseeds by equivalent imports of crude oil and oil
cakes. The expected domestic oilseed supply response would not be sufficient
to offset this short-term effect. Consistent with the assumption made
regarding the impact of the program on export crops production, it has been
conservatively assumed that export growth trends in the "without adjustment"
case would not be significantly affected. The nAet effect of the adjustment
program on the growth rate in imports of agricultural inputs would not be
significant, largely because imported nitrogen fertilizers are alteady sold
close to their co. t price, while the remaining subsidy is concentrated on
domestically productd phosphate-based fertilizer.
150.     Impact on Farm Income.  Insufficient data on the country-wide
distribution of farming systems prevent the estimation of a meaningful
aggregate impact of the adjustment program on net farm income for the whole
country. Instead, the impact of the program on typical farm systems in both
irrigated and rainfed agriculture, was assessed.- The farm income effect
of the program is highly differentiated among systems: grain growers emerge as
the primary gainers, while producers of sugar crops are the biggest losers.
The least efficient producers of sugar crops would likely switch to grain or
pulses (in the rainfed sector) or to forage, oilseeds, and in some regions,
cotton (in the irrigated sector), in order to maintain their net incomes.
Large dairy farmers who have to buy a substantial proportion of their feeding
needs would obtain lower incomes if they do not shift part of their production
from peak to lean season. Relative price movements among animal feed would
lead them to partially switch from sugar beet pulp and wheat bran to barley,
which would also help in regulating the barley market. Dairy producers using
forage based feeding systems would be better off. From the standpoint of
rural farm welfare, the impact of the adjustment program on rainfed farmers
with small holdings is worth noting. For those hovering on the poverty fringe
(the small farmers of favorable and intermediate agro-ecological regions),
their descent to the poverty level (DH 1,527/capita in 1985 prices) is being
staved off by the policy package. However, for the poorest farmers (small
farmers in the unfavorable agro-ecological zones) whose farm incomes are
typically only 40 percent of the poverty level, the solution of their farm
income problem would still have to come primarily from outside agriculture.
151.     Impact on the Urban and Rural Poor.  Since the gradual elimination of
food subsidies could have a major impact on both the urban and rural poor, the
I/ Except for the first year where it would be about US$10 million.
2/ See Chapter IX, Appendix 7 for details, in the MTASAP Volumes.
3031E



- 54 -
Government intends to protect those groups adequately. Although the current
subsidy system is highly inefficient in reaching target populations (the
lowest 30 percent of the population by expenditure class receives only
16 percent of the total budget cost of food subsidies), its elimination would
involve a loss of around 20 percent in real income for the lowest 15 percent
of the population considered to be under nutritional risk. Implementation of
a targeted compensation program (paras. 97 to 100) would alleviate the
negative impact of the food subsidy reduction. The ta get urban population,
which consumes about 70 percent of the subsidized food, comprises some 2.3
million people. The target population in rural areas is estimated as
comprising those in the urban fringes, landless peasants who are likely to
depend on the market for food, as well as those likely to suffer most from
seasonal unempLoyment. Also, in recent years, because of the drought and the
price differential between subsidized soft wheat flour and the traditional
grain (hard wheat), marginal farmers in the unfavorable zones have been
availing themselves to what is equivalent to a net subsidy amounting to about
one-third of their net farm income. The phasing out of consumer subsidies
would also leave such farmers worse off and they have to become part of the
target population. About 1.2 million people would be part of the target group
in the rural areas. The expansion of existing food distribution programs to
the entire target group, combined with an inferior good approach for flour,
would provide an aggregate transfer of real income equal to that expected to
be lost by the disadvantaged groups mentioned above.
152.     The risks of the MTASAP relate to assessir.g the length and difficulty
of the process, uncertainties in the external environment and the
uncertainties in the response of the private sector to adjustments. While
Morocco's record of implementing reforms agreed with the Bank is satisfactory,
as evidenced by its performance under ASAL-T, the magnitude of the adjustments
needed and inter-relationships between them and the general macroeconomic
situation create some risk about the pace of implementation of the reform
package. Actions on input subsidy reduction and trade liberalization have to
be coordinated with adjustment, not only on producer and consumer pricing, but
also with the overall lowering of industrial protection to maintair sectoral
incentives. In these circumstances, maintaining the fiscal and balance of
payments objectives without choking agricultural growth, which implies inter
alia steady actions on food pricing, would be the major challenge to those
managing the adjustment program. Another external factor would be weather,
which might compel the Government to reintervene in livestock feed
distribution or slow down the pace of input subsidies elimination. The
response on the export front is largely contingent on actions by Morocco's
trading partners and competitors, and how fast the private sector would
respond to the liberalized environment is difficult to assess with precision.
153.     The design and management of the adjustment program has built-in
features to minimize these risks. First, essential linkages with the
macro-economic adjustment with growth program are an integral part of the
design. Second, the phased approach to implementing the MTASAP, which has
proved very effective so far, inherently permits flexibility and adjustment
between phases, in light of sectoral and macro-economic developments. Third,
the active involvement of interministerial working groups in the design of the
detailed action plans for MTASAP's second phase increased an already strong
momentum for change. Fourth, the expected continuation of a flexible exchange
rate policy would help assure that the liberalized environment for Moroccan
agriculture generates increased profitability in the sector.
- s::-     



- 55 -
PART V - RECOMMENDAT[ON
154.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recomaend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
October 30, 1987
Washington, D.C.



|~~~~~~~~~~~~ - V
-    ILP  -



Population        22.5 'Sillion (19863
GNP Per Capita;  US$ 580 (1986)
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USS at                                    Annual Growth RaLgtu_L ___                             _  _    _
current prices)                              Actual                                          Praiected   _       _.
Indicator                            infi                  1Z        S3    1984    1985        191_/          11      12ff    1312    1922    !121
NATIONAL ACCOUUII
Gross domestic product a/               14755                  6.8      2.3     2.1      4.4         5 5         1.4      4.5      4.2     4.3      4.3
Agriculture                          3140                 19.9    -3.7       -.3    12.1         17.0       -10.0      3.4     2.4      2.5      2.8
Industry                             4435                  2.2      2.9    -1.1       2.2         0.4         3.5     4.0      4.2      5.0      5.0
Services                             7180                  6.1      3.7      4.7      3.6         4.3         4.2      5.0     4.8      4.3      4.3
Consumption                             12837                  4.9    -0.7      1.6      3.2         6.4         1.7      3.2      3.0      3.1      3.5
Gross investment                         2994                 11.0    -8.3      6.S      4.3         8.7        -2.6      7.9      7.2      7.3     5.3
Exports of GNFS                         3615                   4.9     8.2      2.5      4.3         2.0         5.1      S.      5.7     S.      5.7
Imports of GIFS                         4692                  3.1   -11.3       4.3      0.1         7.2         1.7      4.3      4.0     4.2      3.9
Gross national savings                   2779                 1Z.7    24.7      4.1      9.6        25.7        -2.4      4.1      6.2    11.5      7.9
PRICE                                 1980    19a         LW8    I§S      nu8    198       lM8
GOP deflator (190o = 100)         100.0   110.8   121.8   125.1   135.7   147.8   157.3
Exchange rate (US$ per OH)         .254    .193    .166    .141       .114    .099    .110
Share of GOP at Market Prices   )                                   Average Annual Inc ease.(L _
(at currntl Prices) cl                     (at  on LaL 1969 griS1           -   dL cons aDa !980 prSces)-
j.n.2    l7                                                   1970-75    1971 10           190 85       1985 90      1990 95
Gross domestic product                                                                        4.9          5.5             3.0          3.9          4.3
Agriculture              19.9    17.9    18.1    15.7    15.5    14.6                     -1.4         4.4              1.0          2.4          2.2
IndLstry                 27.0    35.2    32.3    29.8    2S.7    29.6                      7.4         4.2              1.3          3.4          S.0
Services hI              53.1    46.9    49.6    54.5    55.8    55.7                      5.6         6.4              4.7          4.6          4.3
Consunption                 85.5    85.5    88.5    83.7    81.SF        78.4                  b.0         6.1             1.7          3.3          3.5
Gross investrent            18.5    25.4    22.6    21.7    23.4    24.6                       ,.,         1.1             1.9          5.2          5.4
Exports GNFS                17.6    22.5    18.4    19.5    20.3    21.7                      d.O          4.9             4.5          5.3          5.7
Imports GNFS                21.6    33.4    29.4    24.9    25.2    24.7                      8.3          1.7             1.1          4.1          3.9
Gross.national savings    14.8    19.3    14.6    16.1    20.1    24.1                        15.3        -4.4             4.8          8.8          9.1
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  .n                                                                 _u f1
Current revenues                                   16.1       23.3       21.7      22.7        22.3      22.4       22.4       21.7
Current expenditures d/                            14.5       20.2       22.1       23.4       23.7       23.9       24.1      22.8
Current Surplus (C) or deficit (-3                  1.6        3.1       -0.5       -0.7       -1.4       -I.S       *1.7       .1.1
Capital expenditure                                 5.7       12.2        9.B       11.9        9.9        5.7        7.8       4.2
Foreign financing                                   1.3        3.7       4.8         7.2       4.7        4.8        3.2         0.2
QTHER IN ICAIOR                                        n _-u    MA _21     ISILSI   hELlO    1990=H
GMP growth rate (2)                                 6.0        4.9        2.8        3.7        4.5
GNP per capita growLh rate (t2                      3.1        1.8        0.3        1.1        2.0
Energy conswmption growth rate CX)                  6.7        5.6        3.3       4.3        4.3
ICOR                                                3.0       4.1         7.7       5.5        5.5
Margisnal savings rate                              3.08      -0.15       0.4        0.35       0.39
Import elasticity                                   1.R4      0.13      -0.37        1.04      0.9
OQ Z
I/  At market prices.w
bi  Import tales incIlided in services.                                                                                                                                  -X
j/  Projected years at constant 1980 prices.                                                                                                                             o
d/  After debt relief
nI  Preliminary.                                                                                                                        September 22. 19S87              W
EtENA CPIIB



Population        22.5 million (1986)
GNP Per Capita:  US$580 (1986
HROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator                 (million us$ at                      Annual Growth Rates  (%I  (at constant 1930 oricEsl
current prices)                      Actual                                  Prolected
______________ ,                           6         lii    19Z    JIL    1984   LI    III n                   l9U/ It    Il  122   1 a
EXTLRIAL_JUE
Merchandise exports (FOS)              2411           2.9    0.8   11.0    4.3    0.1         3.7       3.8    5.0    4.8    4.7    5.4
Primary products                   1331           -3.7  -11.5    6.3    3.4   -1.7    -1.9            .4    3.9    3.8    4.2    5.2
Phosphate rock                    409          -5.6  -10.1    5.4    2.3   -1.4    -7.4           5.0    3.5    3.0    4.0    6.0
Others                            922           -2.3  -12.4    6.9    4.2   -1.8         1.8     -z.5    4.2    4.3    4.3    4.7
Intermediate a manufactures        1080           21.9   29.0   18.5    5.7    2.5    11.1          7.8    6.2    6.0    S.3    5.6
Merchandise imports (CIFR              3821           2.8    5.3   -8.0    7.9   -0.1         2.3       1.8    4.3    4.0    4.1    3.9
Food                                478          22.7  -18.6   -4.9   27.1  -16.9    -4.4           4.8    1.7    2.1    2.1    2.1
Fuels                               600           10.7   -1.9    1.1    5.2   13.9    -1.6           1.1    4.0    3.8    3.8    3.8
Machinery and equipment             911           -7.7   29.4  -26.3    9.0  -12.3    17.5         -1.0   10.8    7.3    7.0    5.3
Others                             1832           -5.0   12.2   -5.0    1.6    4.3         2.2       3.9    2.9    3.4    3.8    3.8
PRICES (1980   100)
ECport price index                      .           120.7  124.8  135.6  166.7  188.9   18S.3    17Z.4  187.5  197.2  203.5  211.4
Import price index                      .           130.1  142.9  153.4  190.5  214.3   187.6    180.0  197.0  205.2  205.3  21Z.1
Terms of trade index                    .            92.8   87.3   88.4   87.5   88.1    98.7          95.8   95.2   96.1   99.1   99.7                                         U'
Composition of Merchandise Trade (1)                          Average Annualjjyagjj_____-_
(at current prices)             IConstant 1969 prices!  ___ noStnntAl980 _rijusJ_
lfl   11   1             lIM      123111751.0j lUkf                 11311       l     !-7   191-2IS
Exports                                                                    -1.3         7.0         4.3         4.5          5.4
Primary products          86.9   74.4   57.0        50.8    50.3        -2.8         5.4        -1.2         2.3         5.2
Intermediates &
manufactures          13.1   25.6   43.0       49.2    49.7         7.9         12.7        15.8         7.1         5.6
Imports                                                                     9.0         0.7         1.2         3.3          3.8
Food                      25.0   16.9   15.7        14.2    13.1        14.0         2.9        -0.2         1.6         2 1
Petroleun                 10.8   23.6   28.9        Z7.4    27.2         9.6         5.2         4.4         2.5         3.6
Machinery & equipment   24.0   18.9   14.8          17.9    19.3        12.8        -7.3        -3.0         6.6         5.4
Others                    40.2   40.6   40.6        40.5    40.5         5.3         2.8         1.5         3.3         3.8
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with
Industrial CountrigsAII          Develonina Countries (U         Cuptfl.Suij ias Qil ExnorteirS_
i196       197        un         196       1970        LU2        inn                           inn L8                                           z
DIRECTIOM OF TRADE
Ekports                72.3       73.7       76.5       Z7.7      25.4        21.6          .            0.9            1.9                                             H
Imports                76.7       74.9       72.9       23.3      25.1         3.3         ..             ..           18.8                                          P
i/  Prelimin-ary
September 22. 1957
EMENA CPIUB,



Population         22.   millien (195£)
GIN  Per Caulkt:  US5 580 P9861
IQWCOUQ--  A100:l 9§ P^EI     SIllAL CAPIIAt AIM MsI
oen USSt currnt prlcesl
IndtCator                                                 Artual                          __ -*9LtS.
21*8    liii    liii       1;41*2   lil       LED      JI     /       JIl       il        f h.          - 12|2 2
MAIICE aOQE   IAiS
Exports or ooods and serviess            4164    4131       3543    1120    3936    4165         Son          532U       5924    £411    690s    7471
Or whith:  Marchandise fo.b.    2414           2283     2043    7056    2161        2145    2411            2477    2829    Illit    3311        442
lwartc  of goods and servrces            S912    6095    3912        488s    lO0d    5140    54t3             s563      6561    728        J6138    8124
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. e j    3170      3640    3715    3301        3569    3113    2477             1967    4625    4904    S112         154
Net current transfers                      125     lSO       169       94       54       114      166            156      2.6      213      252      261
Current account balance                   1420   -ad61   -1I99    -571    -997          -159     .115           -let      lie     -saU     *4a1       ISI
Met Otrect foreigcn tnvestant             109        73      102       47        51       20       12             1s       14  I     I        17       39
Offtilal Grants                             91      314      124      142        16      300       16                            -        -
34LT loans (net)                         1112      1114    1340       199      960       S93      654            bS0      411      416      171    S16
Official                               145     1094       134      412      IS3      454      595            508      506      697       611      442
Private                                367       60      606       -13      GOB      IO9       56            126      -59      -11    -ICl        114
other Capital (not) I/                     -15      264      450       Zs       -25      463     -394           -los                           -        -
Change in resetrvs                         156       26      -77      IS7       -13      -56      -75           -257        2    -1W      -12A       192
International reserves                    £14       SI0      540      376      1i6       245      466            143      546      96S     1191    1256
OF which:  Gold                        415      250       322      249      217      210      275            275      275       275      275      275
Reserves as eOnth5  ixmorts J/             .81      .45      .44      .26        12      .27      .41           121      1 I 04      44    1.29     1.429
Gross disbursements                       1761    209d      2223    "I"'    1353        3194       Is69
official Grants                         91      114       124      142       16       20e         15
Concessional loans                     743      937       155      252      216       360        377
oaC                                 1ot      121      123       77       121       I95       20o
OPEC                                54       7J7      41       IIs       90         91       302                                                                                                         I
IDA                                   I        I        I        I        2          a         6
Other                                55       23       32       Ss         0        71        75                                                                                                        In
NOn concessional loans                 921      II      1U44       792      931       736       971                                                                                                        '0
Officiel export credtts              to       49       96       40        1s        631       94
10Bt                                64       99       114      174     2175       207        363
Other non-cmncess.                  23       ISo       71       62       30        lit       26s
Private                            505      559      1276      515      631       255        337
Suppliers credits                 a       2S        67       62       iS        30        I1
rinancial credits * bonds   797          510    1152        414      596       225        101
External Debt
Oebt outstanding and disbursed    7254    6059    0120   10240   30529              1253£     146(0
OrItIcl                           215s      4426     5019    6511    6439        3120       '*547
Private                           3504     2510    4070    3749    3959          4335       4764
Undisbarsed debt                      2265     1311    2726    33b7    2976         1347        sill
Oebt service
Total servite paynts if               Ills     1274     1349      IISa      722       971      1441
Interest                           622      £34       590      ^14      521       414        742
Paxntts as t exports of GeS 5/  27.1    30.4    34.S    29.6    19.4                 24.3
Average Ilterel eIate on leu loans (¶l  I.1            5.3     30.o0      1.5      7.5       5.1    1.9
Official                                  3.9       3.7      iS        1.5     S1.        7.1    3S.
Private                                  IW.7    1.]       113,     10.4     11.2       36      3 l0a 
Average maturity or now lognS lycarsi  14 Z            SI s    10.9    1S.6       11.6      31.2   EISs
official                                 lS S    11.9       15.3    20.9    zo.a         la.?   21.1
Private                                   a.b       7.6      6.2      1.4      6.2        6.4    5.                                                                                                     311hz
as et nn  outs tndina  Ut Knd of It                     Leco                                                                                               lb 1:t 3
Maturity structure of debt outstandingd
haturities due within S reers                                        56.2                                                                                                                                'I
MatUrities due within 15 years                                       30.7                                                                                                                                0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                        4.1
3d PrelimInary,.    -                            ---
J/ Projected figures are tlF.
J/ Zncludes financing gap.
11 Reserves minus ugoldfioerts of goods and services.                                                                                     S"tome    22. Its?
J/ After resthodul me  eveludes IMF Service ereents.                                                                                           tma CP it a
1/ Services include Porkers  rmattances.



- 60 -
STATUS  F ME  PERATIXONS IN 1 R1 co
A.  STATKNT aF lAUN ZLOANS AIM IDA  EIOITJC EAs ot Snta b r II  1OE
Loan or                                                                                 USS Million mount
Credit                                                                                 ILns tan:alpt,pnsI
Fourty-Sffn LoIn  lIJZ Disbursed                                                1 ,634.00
Five Credits Fully Aisbursed                                                                 4S.16
1es2     1978     Kingdom of Morocco              Agriculture                      50.0                 27.40
t6l      1979     Kingdom of Morocco              Education                        36.0                 21.50
1724     1979     Kingdom orf  orocco             Watur Supply                     49*0                   1 90
la"      1980     Kingdom of Morocco              Agriculture                      24.0                  12.02
942      1911     CIN                             Tourism                         106.0                  10.23
1s44     19l    Kingoom or Morocco                Urban Development                20.0                  l0.Ii
2006     1912     Kingdom or Morocco              Water Supply                     78.0                  38.91
2037     1962     gNot                            OFC                              70.0 oJ3J
2030     1982     Kingdom of Morocco              DFC (SKI)                        20.0                  21.16
2082     1952     Kingdom or Morocco              Agriculture                      24.0                  19.70
2109     1962     Klngdom c' morocco              Mining                            6.2                   2.76
2110     1982     Kingdom of Morocco              Forestry                          15.S                  8.46
2149     1982     Kingdom of Morocco               Education                        38.0                 15.70
2217     1913     Kingdom of Morocce              Agriculture                       22.0                 16.76
2245     1963     cDi -                           Housing Development               60.0                 30.41
22S3     1903     Kingdom of Morocco              Agriculture                       24.0                 28.37
22S4     1982     KIngdm of Morocco               HIghways                          7646                 50.39
2171     1913     ONAREP                          oil Exploration                   65.2                  6.27
2272     1913     Kingdom of Morocco              Village Infrastructure            16.0                  6.97
2479     198S     Kingdom of Morocco              Vocational Tralinin               27.1                 15.61
2.07     1915     Kingdom of Norocco              Electrical & Mac. Ind.            25.1                 20.12
210O     193s     Kingdom of Morocco               Jorada Coal Mn.                  27.0                 22.24
272      1995     Kingdom of Morocco              Health                            21.4                 23.20
2654     198"      Kingdom of Morocco             Agriculture                       4.60                 43.S1
2557     1986      Pert Authority                  Port of Casablanca               22. 021.03
2164     195      Kingdom of Morocco               Education                       S1.3 O'64.43
2731     1966    CNCA                              Agric. Credit                   12D.3                 62.54
2779     197?    Kingdom of Morocco                VoCattonal Training              22.2                 22.30
2798     1987      Office Natiohal des Postes    Telecoajnicatlons                 125.0                12S.00
2MG      1987     National Bank for
[con. Develop  nt              Industr. Export Fin.             703.                 70.00
2820     1937     Kiogdom of Morocco              Publ. Inter. Rat.                245.3                240.00
282S     1987     Kingdm of Morocco                Nat. Water Supply /              60.3                 6D.03
2826     1987     Kingdom of Morocco              Greater Casa. Sewerage /A  _.60.0.6DJ00
TOTAL                                                         3.523.5S    45.16   1.209.61
of whSch has keen repaid                                     MI4LlS    JA40
Total Now Outstanding                                         2.879.2     41.76
Amount Sold                     20.11
at whSch has been repaid    20_11                               0.0      0.0
Total now held by lank and IDA                                             2.879.2      41.76
Total undtsbursed                                                                               L12aL61
S. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTM4ENTS (As of Auaust 211. 19171
USS Million
ELZalmBr                                                      LQAD       aul t      t
1IWS            Fruumt              Food & Food Processing   8.3                    3.3
1943/1978/1964  1101                 Development Bank         56.8       I.S       51s3
1976            Marrakech Cntent   Cacnt Factory                 -       1.2        1.2
1977/1980       Tar  Count           Cenant Factory            2.0                  2.0
196             SOMTFEN             Copper Mintng             32S        2.3       S.
1981/1983       Casablanca Cement  Caent Factory               11.5      2.0       13.1
1987            CIN                  Tourism                  25.Z        -        25.2
1987            Setaf11              Tegtle Factory            L2j      23        .^Lh
Total camitments now hold by IFC                           110.9       8.4      119.3
Total Undtsbursed                                            15.9      1.3       17.2
7273/p2
9/24/87



- 61 -
ANNEX I I I
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AflJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                   About 14 months
(b)  Project preparation responsibility:              Government/Bank
(c)  Project first identified by Bank                 July 1985
(d)  Bank appraisal mission                           October 1986
(e)  Negotiations                                     August 1987
CE)  Board presentation                               November 1987
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   December 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness at Release of 1st Tranche (US$75 million)
(See para. 134)
(b) Condition of Disbursement for Release of 2nd Tranche (US$75 million)
(See para. 135)
(c) Condition of Disbursement for Release of 3rd Tranche (US$75 million)
(see para. 136)



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Poliey Letter
Mr. Barber ConabLe
President of the World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. President:
With reference to the detailed exchanges of views that have taken
place between the Moroccan Government and the World Bank on agricultural
sector issues, and further to the correspondence sent to you by my predecessor
at the time of the presentation of the First Agricultural Sector Loan to the
Dank's Executive Directors in June 1985, I should like to indicate the broad
lines of our development policy in this vital sector of our economy and
describe the strategy and action programs which we plan to implement during
phase two of our sector adjustment program during 1987-1989.
Before I touch on the special features of this second phase of the
adjustment program for agriculture, I should like to place our discussion in
its overall economic context.
In recent years, the Moroccan economy has been beset by unfavorable
conditions, both domestic and international. A succession of drought years
and deterioration in the terms of trade sharply reduced growth and exerted
considerable pressure on the balance of payments and public finances. Faced
with this situation, we embarked on a stabilization and structural adjustment
program. This program has now begun to bear fruit, since, in addition to
raising our growth rate, encouraging progress has been made in other domains,
notably public finance and the balance of payments, as the following
indicators show. Our GDP growth rate has increased from 2.5% in 1983 to 5.7%
in 1986. At the same time, the budget deficit and the deficit on the current
account of the balance of payments have decreased from 12% and 8.5% of GDP
respectively in 1983 to around 6.4% and 2% of GDP respectively in 1986..
Despite these encouraging results, persistent imbalances in the major
macroeconomic aggregates will require us to continue our efforts in future
years.
The success of the adjustment program on which we have embarked is
conditioned, in particular, upon continued efforts in the areas of export
promotion, mobilization of domestic resources, and rationalization of the
public sector and the resources assigned to it. This is the difficult
environment in which phase two of our action program for the agricultural
sector must be implemented, as an essential element in our stabilization and
structural adjustment policy at the national level.



-63 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 6
During the second phase of our adjustment program for the agricultural
sector, which will cover the period 1987/89, we plan to focus in particular on
linking our agricultural and food policy more closely to its macroeconomic
context. Our primary objective in the sector will thus be >.o maximize
agricultural growth by promoting production patternb whieh reflect the
sector's comparative advantage and reduce the burden of food imports on our
external accounts while reducing the extent and cost of public intervention in
the agriculture and food sectors from the producer all the way to the consumer.
This primary objective must be attained without penalizing the agricultural
sector as a whole in relation to the other soctors of the economy, while at
the same time raising income levels for the poorest farmers.
Following the first phase of our adjustment program in agriculture,
we can already observe an improvement in our agricultural trade balance and a
markedly faster rate of growth in the sector as it emerges from five difficult
years; these results have been obtained while we were at the same time
reducing the budgetary cost of our agricultural policy.
Encouraged by these initial favorable results, our main concerns will
continue to be: (a) raising the productivity of public and private
investments in the sector; (b) improving the cost-effectiveness of our
production incentives (prices, marketing arrangements, externel trade regime,
miscellaneous incentives) both for import substitution and export products;
(c) concentration of government intervention in those areas where it is
essential and the strengthening of basic public support services (agricultural
research and extension activities); (d) improved r.anagement of our natural
resources and better use of our agricultural land potential; and lastly (e)
strengthening of our institutional structures for the formulation,
implementation and monitoring of agricultural policy.
As regards the public investment program, our first concern will
continue to be to ensure the allocation and effective availability of
sufficient budgetary resources to complete the priority projects currently in
progress (the composition of this portfolio of projects is well known to the
Bank as a result of the reviews that have been conducted jointly with you
since 1984). However, with a view to preparing the next Development Plan,
1988-1992, and in accordance with our national objectives to give priority to
rural development and to network development for areas already under
irrigation, we hope to be able to embark on new projects by establishing
investment priorities, both for the irrigated sector and for the rainfed
sector. We thus propose to: (a) ensure adequate allocations to the public
investment budget (commitments and payments) of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform (MARA) for the fiscal years 1988 and 1989, in order to
enable that Ministry to complete within normal deadlines the priority projects
and programs for which it is responsible; (b) finalize the ranking in order of
economic and social priority of the major irrigation projects that has been
drawn up with the assistance of your institution, and use this ranking for the
gradual inclusion of these projects in future investment programs; and



- 64 -                                    ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 6
(c) adopt adequate selection criteria for small- and medium-scale irrigation
projects (rate of return which reflects the opportunity cost of capital,
rehabilitation, implementation period, existence of water user associations);
and (d) make use of the quantitative regionalized approach developed by the
MARA Directorates to prepare our future programs for development of rainfed
agriculture and finalize the priorities for utilization of the Agriculture
Development Fund (Fonds de D6veloppement Agricole) that has recently become
operational.
As regards our policy on prices and incentives, on which far-reaching
studies and discussions were conducted during phase one of our adjustment
program, we propose a significant liberalization with a view to increasing
efficiency and encouraging better utilization of our resources, while
guaranteeing our agriculture the necessary and sufficient protection it
deserves, both vis-a-vis other sectors of the national economy and vis-a-vis
external markets in which prices for certain products that we import are
-everely distorted.
Thus, under reserve of the above, which will enable us to avoid the
transmission of violent shocks to our agriculture, we propose to: (a) extend
the liberalization of foreign trade to agricultural products, by replacing all
licenses and quotas (except for certain basic necessities that will for some
time continue to receive consumer subsidies) with tariff protection adapted to
each product and consistent with the provisions of the ITPA (Industrial Tride
Policy and Adjustment) program and the rules of GATT; (b) adopt for some
agricultuLral products floor prices established with reference to non-distorted
price trends on the world market, which will both encourage efficiency and
allow the markets for the main staples to be regulated and supported through
movements in foreign trade rather than through direct government intervention
only; (c) gradually deregulate the main agroindustrial subsectors that are
currently subject to strict government controls (cereal growing and flour
milling, sugar growing .-nd sugar refining, cultivation of oilseeds and
refining of edible oils, livestock feed, byproducts of these various
subsectors), wLich will enable us to introduce increased competition into
marketing and processing activities, and reduce costs between the farmgate and
the final consumer; and (d) gradually eliminate consumer subsidies replacing
them with food security programs reaching only the most vulnerable sections of
the population. At the same time, we shall continue the efforts which we
started in phase one of the adjustment program to eliminate distortions within
the sector by further reducing subsidies for fertilizer in order to eliminate
them in their entirety in accordance with the timetable agreed at the
beginning of the program. We will, in parallel, seek better balance between
prices of locally produced products and their potential imported substitutes,
in view of encouraging competition for our products with adapted protection
levels coherent with the provisions of the ITPA program. For seeds, we will
stabilize subsidies in accordance with the provisions of the program.
This series of reforms in the areas of foreign trade and price
formation from the farmgate to the consumer will be reflected in higher
incentives for rainfed agriculture in general (and cereal growing in



- 65 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 6
particular) and for export crops; these reforms will also help reduce
production costs for Moroccan sugar, making it easier to achieve the basic
objectives of the Sugar Plan with improved economic rates of return.
A detailed plan of action for the liberalization of the various
agro-industrial subsectors has been prepared taking into account the specific
features of each of these subsectors and whether or not they involve consumer
subsidies. It is included in the tables attached to the present letter.
As you are aware, many measures have already been taken under the
ITPA program and under the Industrial Export Project in regard to incentives
for exports of agricultural products and processed foods. Neve-theless,
during phase two of our agricultural sector adjustment program, we have
already created a trade association to proaoote and monitor the quality of
exports as well as to monitor foreign markets. We plan to take additional
measures to improve the economic environment for our export-oriented
agro-industrial sector including a detailed review of issues relating to
contracts between farmers and processing plants in order to improve the
regularity of supplies of raw materials to agro-industries.
As regards the strengthening of production support services that are
to remain the responsibility of the public sector (i.e. agricultural research
and extension), we propose above all to increase the efficiency of existing
services. We intend to stress better coordination of research with extension
services in order to enable the latter to better answer specific problems
encountered. With regard to research, we will emphasize better coordination
of expenditures and focus on key commodities and programs (cereals, oilseeds,
export crops, livestock genetic improvement, and development of forage and
olive crops). INRA's structure and activities will be reorganized in
accordance with the conclusions and recommendations of the Research Master
Plan. With regard to extension services, investment would aim to improve the
mobility, the training and the efficiency of existing staff. We plan to
complete the reorganization of services with a view to bringing extension
agents closer to the farmers and encourage the formation of trade associations
that would gradually take over responsibility for the development of their
sector of activity. The detailed measures that we intend to take in these two
areas are described in the tables attached to the present letter.
The gradual withdrawal of the Government from the provision of inputs
and services of a commercial nature will continue during phase two of the
adjustment program with the following series of measures: (a) review of the
criteria for continued operation of FERTIMA sales points in the CTs (centres
de travaux) and CMVs (centres de mise en valeur) and closure of those sales
points that do not meet the revised criteria; (b) completion of the transfer
of seed multiplication activities from INRA to other operators; (c) extension
to 40 additional areas of the pilot veterinary medicine system, with
contracting out of prophylactic measures, which was tested during phase one of
the adjustment program; and (d) transfer to private operators or to producer



- 66 -                                    ANNEX [V
Page 5 of 6
groups of artificial insemination activities in 15 additional areas and
certain selected breeding stations.
As regards improvements in the management of our natural resources,
we shall focus our efforts on the following priority items: (a) adoption of a
series of technical and legal measures designed to conserve natural forest and
pastoral ecosystems and ensure better management of these resources; and
(b) funding of the capital budget and the National Forestry Fund (Fond
Forestier National) at levels sufficient to reforest 40,000 ha a year,
inventory 100,000 ha of forest a year, and draw up management plans for
25,000 ha a year. Our land tenure policy will follow the same broad lines as
during phase one of the adjustment program, with the following activities
planned: (a) execution of a priority land registration program; (b) detailed
examination of the desirability of setting up a specific land credit system
and possible ways and means of using this to combat fragmentation; and
(c) preparation of a land consolidation program in high-potential areas where
such an investment would be economically justified. The series of legislative
texts on land tenure prepared during phase one of the adjustment program which
will enable a catisfactory start to be made on land consolidation operations
in rainfed areas are in the approval process.
Finally, the strengthening of policy formulation and monitoring
capabilities in MARA, on which a good start was made during phase one of the
program, will be actively continued. Phase two of the study on prices and
incentives, the essential purpose of which is to complete the establishment
within MARA of analytical tools and the training of staff in their use, will
be carried out. In addition, the monitoring system set up to evaluate the
impact of the adjustment program will be supplemented in light of the
experience gained over the past two years.
In order to ensure effective implementation of this second phase of
the program, we also propose to reinforce interministerial coordination by
appointing a permanent monitoring team attached to the Interministerial
Committee already established. This Interministerial Committee will continue
to meet half-yearly to examine the status of the program and take any
necessary measures. This moniLoring effort will result in a semiannual status
report that will be sent to you.



- 67 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 6
The Government confirms its commitment to continue the adjustment
program set forth in our initial corresp.nilence in 1985 and in the present
letter, the details of which are presented in the attached tables. To enable
us to attain both our macroeconomic and our sectoral goals, we ask you to give
favorable consideration to our request for a second agricultural sectoral
adjustment loan to finance imports of essential inputs.
Please accept, Mr. President, the assurance of my highest
consideration.
Signed by the Minister
of Finance



68 -
Tna AUICTMW  LM                             AppKsgi~fu niS   A
Action  to he Takon                     Action to he Taken                     Action to be Taen
Action  to he Talon                               Refe  P00gm at                            otero Releaiss of                     etfere Islose of
RPoro  bogotistions                               First Troeeh                             Scon  Tranchw                          Third trrOn
I.  IncrVea  flaur milline mrgins to        1. I 1innt first phase of the grain    1 iSloet tLo  sawn phemt  of tm                 1. Start lupleantatlon of tU
intVrnt     l noal (rsh (aboutil  151.11.    pricin  Wa  erkSting return. in-         groin pricing and Mrksting reform.         grain prlcing ai  wrbeting
cludino  gal ftnollaotln or thm  now      including  (a) proearotimn an  sub-        rofor. Including SGttl_nt
U   Finlhie, mebh oi  oan  timtable h Pr       etheolo   Por calculating tflr             elusion at tests related to deregu-         pP arreas to mtillers.
the sottlont of gowernmoit arrears         prie  hosed on world  orlket Priceam      latio  of the grain arketing gystOo
to te milline mactar eoer 1917/1B.         ai wall as sgtting erocurant prIce         beten  faruate and flour mills, (bi 2. tlmit price adhusUents tar
te soft de at at the level of flewr        elaimiation of vrice controls eo nrn-    for suear crags to Inflation
*.  Start the second phse or etn  study        mills, with seaswes  variatianz and        subsidized floar  nd authoriae the          lns 2I toa  ncouroeo
on thr  sugar industry hated on TOEs       Ill stting production quotas Par           ociling sector to priduts warlous           gains In procLlvity and
sereod with tim  oat.                      Suhsi1taod flour groduCgd by 0oCR          4ufntitgS oP floDur for th  Free              rage sg oecial price priab
tleur mill at on extraction race of       corset; ic eliiealt ion of 4uititt-         et their 19t  nmoinal lovols.
4.  Authurler  marketing or low fat milk.      at lest gam                                tlive retrictions for sit grain
(secapt Sort wat); (dl appliea-         3.' ContInw  to Ipl_mnt the
S. Cemlote tronfar of tersal soad           2. Frreso producer PricO  In real tor          ttIn of tna  now wthodology far            operstion progra to darou-
multiplicatiun activities (Ge) frm         for sugar craps (increse  limited to       CalCulatins pricesa fr the 1gb/B            lets the swoer sector *ccerd-
lENN  to SONA0    WA  private sectDr,      inflation to a maciPH   Of lOt)            c_Usigns at tim level of users              Ino to  rood ttmtoble.
agricultural years  l57/PS and A reaso    cantors.
6.  Finlla  work proura For the design    Baeial priCe pr_l at their 1901                                                        4. Adoptlon of the action 0lan
of tarsettd cne_nsotory program            nominal lewels.                         2. Limit price adjustmnts fer sugar            for dersolation of tie entire
Capt ena. ti_tUblo. adalitios).                                                       crops to inflation les  it                 edibld  ills sector ai  Its
S. stablisihnt snd adoptlon of TOBe for   I1985-8S) and freeze special price             execution awardilng to tl_-
7.  Adoption Of A progra bueget by hisA        iaveloprnt of an oetln plan to ds-        grwl  at their  l50  nominal levels.        table orvod with the PWai.
oasod on resarcth priorities.              regulate the entire udibla oils suk-
mectar.                                 3. Adoption of an operational program    S. Increass the  asonal pro-
S.  Identify 4u additional ciws for                                                       over a year: bgtnnilng July 1. lUd          duer price  diftorontiol for
Privatization of anlIm  helith          4. Increase Lhe sesosal producer Price        to deregulate the sugar sector.            mllk to -e  than 205.
servie, and 10 azes for the trans.   differentiam  far milk to it.
rer of artificial Ins_menetlOn                                                     4. Start the study derining on wars-    *  Clos  don  on additioal 405
servicas  to private sctor end          S. Climinats price and mrkating con-          tioln plan for dersoulatlon OP             gowerfn_tirun rertiiger
cooperatlive.                              trols For bran aS  sugar beht ;ulp.        tie entire Sibla oils sector.              distribution outlets
mwlig the rev sod criteria.
C.  etvis  criteris For tho closing dwn  6. Submit final preposals concerning          S. Maintain the Seasonal producer price
of govefaent-run fortillagr distrl-        tareetted cfensatory progrum.              differantiel for milk at IO.            7. Continw to ipleant the In-
butlon outlets.                                                                                                                  put subsldis,. phase out pro-
7. Allocate luff icent budgetary *opro-  5. Close dowe at lost 4DX Of itovern-          era dosignod In ASAL-I. with
10. Sot up Interunist4rlal Co_isslon           prlations and eoit_nts to  1M  In    rant-run rertiliser distribution                 a wuslhted avarage lncrease In
For forest reunration and   nags-          the 1900 Invostment budget.                  islets meting tnC revised criteria.    tertilisr reFerenc  Prices
ant of forestry rongl  nji (n) or IlX. or as soled
a. Privatize animl health serVIeC  In   7. Comly wiLh isut subsidles, phase              with the m aei.
1i. Prewpre a detailed wor prmiarm for         20 additIoal  ones.                        out proorom desiened in hUtL- With a
OPAl f r 1907-91.                                                                      waighted aversee Increase of Ill In
9. Prepare an initial ltst df produCts        fortiziler reference prices g1gs).   a. AchiJeve_nnt Or a collection
I2. Agree on a minis   allocation of ItS    tincludins oil eels, for transfer to                                                     rote af at least 42X fDr
of total budgetgrr a*proprlations          freely importable regim (list A)        0. Achiiev t of a collction rote of           water charges (including
and co_ltnnts to NASA In the 1957          In the context of the 19U PrC  with        at least 75S for water cnargos             arrears) in 19U.
investant budget.                          an adoqete SrSte Of protection.            (including arrearsl In 1IU7.
13. Frnalsastion by OPAat  l TONS of the                                               9. Start leOlerientation of Lre tarpatted 9  Continua to irelInt the
sLudy On aXturnal trade l61ursllxs-                                                   ccensatory program.                        taroetted cowwnmatory
Iion In ag Iculture.                                                                                                             progrs.
1O.Trnsfar artifilell Insoninstlon         10.Allocation of surficient
services to Private sector or coops        budeUtary approprlations and
In 3 additional znas.                      eilt_nts to MOA In its
1909 investment budget and
1I1Create a searate Dlvision fer Exton-    sufficient slecations to
sion In MvA.                               Insure finaning or  thm  195B
investment proeraopi
I? transfer of thm first i1st or           lI.Privatize animal health ser-
Products to list A of the 19U PCI          viegs In 20 additional zoems
and ostablisiant of a timtable for         and tranter artificial
liberalization of other agricultural       mnsalntion services to
products over 4 yr rs lC 90-fl).           private soctDr or Coops in 15
includine annoeunc nt tnhrecr.             additlonal  eas.
ll.T1ransfer to Plst A of agri-
Cultural productS forsoen by
tiestable agreed in the con-
text of the 5959 PCI.



uxucm or maracc
srn  AIICULTUrAL  rECTOR AfTXdSMMT lAN
TIETAULE OF ADJLUSTWNT PROGRW
cricultural and food Pricinanrmd Markatina: Curaals Sector
hetln Proged under UAIA-11
Government's        liedlia-lerm             Actions taken                   Before           Prlor to First        Prior to  oSetrd        Prior to Third
Objectives       Adjustmant Program          Under ASAL-1                 Negotiations       Tranche Release        Trenhe felease          Trwnche el ease           *dWIi-TurU
Improve          Ensure floor producer  Increase In adinistered                            Adoption of the new  .mplentation of            Full Implementation
Incentives to    prices for grains        praducer prices over the                         anthodoloy to set       the method by fixing    of the mthod for
the grain        close to world market   last two agricultural                             floor prices for        prices at the level     the 1959-19W
sector (harma-   prime trends in order   years t11S p.m. on                                grains with referenee  of user centers for      clnaign.
mile protec-     to encourage produc-    averagel.                                         to world mrket          the 191k-SC cpaign.j
tion rates       tion (ntat. mai2e)                                                        price trends with a
with those       or stabilize revenres                                                     level of protection
In other         (barley).                                                      .ciatlble withe    .                                                              . Follwine iUa
sectors.                                                                                   ITFA program  and                                                        elimtinraen of
setting the procure-                                                    the cosur
wnt price for soft                                                       siAsidy on
Aeat at the level                                                        flouw. gazeu    t
of the flauruills                                                        tie prtCINt
based on floor                                                           price sntm  at
producer price Inclu-                                                    thW level of the
ding seasonal varia-                                                     fbaoarilt.
tion to enourage
upstream storase In
the mrketing chain.
Free external   I
Introduce more   Elimination of                                                            Develop under TORt      Adoption of free      .iZlwtation of             trade for soft  C%
dynamis, In      Import monpoly and                                                        acceptable by the       external trade for      the Program to           sat with
the grain        qwutas and replace-                                                       lnk a progrm to          asize  hard Wtoat and   strentihi   ICLIS       adbeate tariff
marketing         ent by tariff                                                            strengthen ONICL's      barley with tariff      capabilities,            barriers after
system and use   barriers consistent                                                       mrket mnitoring         barriers set at levels                           elimtnatien of the
external trade   with production                                                           capabilities.           Alch  nourage                                    cosem r sas¶ay an
as the major     Incentives,                                                                                       prOuction.                                       floar.
regulation and
stabilization
instrument of
the grain
mrkets.
lExtend Uth deresi-
Increase the     Oqregulation of grain                                 Increase flour-                             Deregulate the          Publication of           latitn to the flow-
efficiency of    marketing and price                                   milling mrgin to                            cereals marketing       lal texts and            milling sects after
grain mrket-    formation nmchanism.                                   internatinal                                syst_5 between  frm-   iclntation                elimination of the
Ing system to                                                          norm                                        gate an  flguills      of the now syStin        tumr aasi1dy on
reduce unit                                                            (about on lIql)                            (eliminate traders      of deregulation          flaw.
costs between                                                                                                      licesing, fixed         for the 138-9
farm and                                                               Prepare tintable                            margins an  alluences  Coign.
consuser and                                                           and action plan                             for sterge, hanling
encourage                                                              for the settle-                             and transport,
on-fer and                                                             mat d Gof ost                               authorize millers ad   Settle nt of
lntermediste                                                           arrears to the                              other agnts to buy      arrears to the
storage.                                                               milling sector                              their graln freo  any    milling sector-
over 187/18.                                supplier): preparation
and suemssion of
legal texts.
I/  According to the proposals of the Interministerial Comission (See detailed wthodology in the Cission's report).                                                       'U1|r
U ru<
. m



KI1 iOF IOF DCCO
SECOND  AGPICULTU4At SICIBE A5IJ SU I LUrn
Aarlmultmral and  od PrIein ain arkain.:r  teranl  Lctur
Gowernment's         Mediu-Tern                Actions taken                   k*ore             Prior to First          Prior to Soc d         Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustment Program           Under ASAL-1                  bebatietion          'rranche ftlease       Tramhe nh  lees         Tranche bleas            iJdimm Teon
Improve the       Eliminate the                                                                Start mrketn           . Eliminate price                                . Elimite subsidy
ConSb stency nfd    th  ve t nsart of                                                          subsidised flour at    controls on all                                    en flowr by 1 .
between fooJ t   the consutr subsidy                                                           an extraction rate       other tyes of flaew.
agricultural      (flourl on production,                                                       of ao.
policies for      and reduce the
grains.           budeetary costs of
the dual pricing                                                             Set ur quitas of        Authorlie the milling
ysta.                                                                        producteion of          sector to produce
subsidized             wvrious flair
flour for each          qualities for the
mill.                   free irtet.
s..
_0N



[CICD"  St ICuttUOAL SETcte A&IIE        AcfUT tLOA
Amrieulturml and FOO prsetna miid Ibrkmt1n: 5scar Sector
_                    ~~~~~~aetion  Promoted under AS-fIs
Gowermu nt's         m*dium-Ter                Actions taken                                      Prfere  flier to First  flior to Seoem          Prier t* Third
Objectives        Adjustment Program           Under ASAL-1                   Negotiations        Trreche btlose          Trundebouease           Trundeh btle sOIU   Tow
l erove the                                                               Agrei_nt to                                                                                     .ostritt further
fFiciency of                                                              achieve full                                                                                      exsoin  f $VW
the suWur                                                                 utilizatien of                                                                                    prfdation te ti
sector while                                                              existtno su,ar-                                                                                   most effici'nt
pursuing the                                                              milling capicity                                                                                  rogien.
objective of                                                              before construc-
Self-sufficiency                                                          tion of new sugar
under economic                                                            mills.
conditons.
Reduce the        O reeulate m_rketing                                     Start tHe second    Freeze production        Limit price adjust-        I tmit price adjust-
Finaniall and    and Price formation                                      phase of the          prices In real term   ment for sugar              *nts fer sour
econoic cast    _chmnisme  In the                                         study on th           (increase limited to   crops to Inflation         crops to Inflation
of domestic       sugar setor.                                            sugar Industry        inflation of costs      of costs less It to       of costs less n to
sugar produc-                                                             based on TOfs         with a   x1         Of    oun tO ains In          enousoe gains
tion.             Eliminate the bud-                                      agreed with the       1n2  for ce-Aign        productivity.             in protstion.
getary costs of the                                     ant and including  1987-88.
sugar production                                        interf      the
sy5teo.                                                 filaule : .n freze special price   Freze special                     . frnze special
a? developent        prnia at their           price pressiwn at        price prniin at
possibilities    IUO nominal levels,   their ItU  ninal             their 185 nominal
for SUCRAFOR                               levels,                  levels.
bJ rationalizs-      Create a sugar crop
tion of price    insurance schn  .jV
faretimn
*achanims
In the sugar
industry.
1/ To be fifnaced through a levy on the producer price.



KINGOSi OF MCUOCWQ
SICONO AGRICULTURAL SET~OR ADJUSTMENT LOA
TIfETABLE OF ADJUSTMENT PEWIRMAI
Agrifultural an   hiPii.mmi  carktptlg:Sugrtee
Actins Prmesmed under ASAL-11
Governmnt s          Medium-Term              Actions taken                   Before           Prior to First         Prior to S rcad         Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustment Program          Under ASAL-1                 Negotiations        Tranche  lrase         Tranthe btiase          Tranche ftlease           Hedia  Term
Define i TOs of the    AdoPtiOn of an operatIon-   Continue
third phase of the     nal program sor t years    inlennatims
study an the sugar     acceptable to the Bnk         of the progrm
industry mechanism     and starting July 1           Sccording to
for impl~nta' in        1S U  for dereulating        agred
of the deregulaaon    the sugar sector               tintable.
progrm of the sugar   ceerising
sector.                  - fixing of unique
transfer prices and
Hilling Mareins for
all sugar mills;
- pri.atizatien of
certain sugar mills;
- elimination of the
budgetary cost of the
secter ever this                             Achieve comlete
period;                                      dereglation of ti
- tuprovment oF the                             sector  eACI
effielency of the                            consuar Subsidies
sugar sector Icoenservatlfn                  are elimnated rt
of energy. Increase In                        Eel imnation of    I
capacity utilization-rate.)                   systn of fi_ hs
trics NW m-rgn
aet.).



KZSLAOM OF IQCO
armina AcerCUzsUeat SECTOR A£1tW11r tOnsm
TIPETALEt OF ADJUS-Tu_JLfEfhhf
Aarteluhral And Food priin  a            s brtincs Edlib  oils and Oil Crcos Sector
cti.ns Pramosmd under Aft-TI
Govern  nt's         Hediun-Term               Actions taken                     Before           Prior to First         Prior to Seconrd         Prir to Third
Objectives        Adjustnent Progrm            Under ASAL-I                  Negottations         Tranche Release        Tranche felease          tranche Release         he1du_-Tem
Improve           Insure a level of                                                                                     Develop  nt of a          PIl  bnt floor
tncentives to    producer prices for                                                                                    floor price foehanisn   pricing muhanist
oilseed           oilcrops that will                                                                                    for o11 crops (cotton,  based an now
Production         ncourage production,                                                                                 sunflowr. soya. etc. I  mthodolosy.
tharmonnie                                                                                                              by reference to warli
protection                                                                                                              m_rtet prices and
rates with                                                                                                              apply tariff protection
those In                                                                                                                compatible with ITPA.
other sectors.
Increase          Eliminate licensing                                                                                   Transfer of oil cakes to
erfictancy        and awota Systn and                                                                                   list A with tariff
within the        apply tariff barriers                                                                                 protection.
sector by         compatible uith ZTPA
e4ternal trade   and at levels which
to stabillie      encourage production.
and regulate
the markets.
Increase the      Oeregulation of                                                              Oevelopment and          Start the study.          Adootion of the         l olem nt n   plete _
efficiency of    marketing and price                                                            adoption of TOPs                                  action plan agreed      deregulation of   W
the edible oils  formation mechanisms                                                          asreed with the lank                               .ith the rnk fer        the edible oils
sector to         In the sector.                                                                for a study to                                   ct  lete deregula-       secter along the  I
reduce unit                                                                                     establish An action                               tien of the edible      martet1negprocessing
costs between                                                                                   action plan to com-                               ols sector and          chain.
farm and                                                                                        pletely Ceregulate                                its execution
consuar.                                                                                        the edible oils                                   according to
sector (freeing the                               tinetable agreed
entry Into crushing                               with the  uank.
and refining
aCtivities, elimina-
ting the systi of
formation of Prices
along the mrketinst
processing chainj.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



KINUCDS OF M02CfO
Sifm  SdtIaUA   ticam  *flSStN  LA
TTWETAULE OP IUMET PatOfM
Aarieultural and Food Pricn  and Nartetina   Livestock Produrts
Goverr.nt's          Mediu-Term                Actions taken                     lare             Prior to First         Friar to Secon           Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustfent Progra            Unhder ASAL-I                 Neeatliatins         Tranche bloese         Trancw  ftlran           Tranche ftleasn            etdlan Term
. Improve the    . Encourage the devel-  . Increase in Weat bran                                  Eliminate price
efFictency of    opment of forage           and sugar beet pulp                                 control and  uotas
feed resource    production and better   priceS  i%).                                           a on bran and bmet
uae in the        utilization of under-                                                         pulp-I/
sector,           utilized doestic
low cost feed.
Eliminate Price dis-    Initiation of a study an
tartions acn  enial   the complete liberaliza-
Feedstuffs.              tion of _mrbetin  and
pritirg for brai and
pulp by Deeebr 19g7.
Oevelop a         Develop a sat of                                      .Authorize mar-         Increase the            Meintaen the seasonal   Inmrease the              . Eliminte con-
national dairy   wasures to better                                        keting of low         seasonal produesr       producer price            seasonal proedtr          sumer prlce
processino        adjust deend and                                        fat milk.             price differential      differential (peaki'      rice differential         control en fresh
lndustry          supply for fresh                                                              (peek/lean) Far         lean) at 2fn.             for miii to   rate        milk.
capable af        milk intra-annually                                                           milk to let.                                      hiegr than 2Et                            I
absorbing the    (seasonal producer                                                                                                               after evaluation.
totality af       price diffe,ential. 
milk produc-      long conservation
tion a mrketed    products ..                                                                              1I
throughout the
year w4er
econormically
viable condi-
tions.
I/  Given the need to calculate 'an aministrative price' at the sugar an  flourmill level for subsidv purposes.   Mn prices will be calculated
on the basis on its nutrttive value with respet to barley, and dried sugar beet pulp prices an the b1ais of Its greition cost.
F0



o~~~~~~~~~~~~r  nSL1
M?flo OFLS          5t-   ol
Ictimisf Promoted wider ASAL-Il
Gvacruumnt'u          Nedli-Terew              Actions taken                     *efre            Prior to First          Prior to Second         Prior to Third
Objectivns        Adjustment Program           Under ASAL-I                    egotIations        Tranche Release         Tranche tleaSe          Trsnche elekne               t1du  Term
Ieorove inut    EInsure the profit-         Adjustment of fertiliaer
distribution      ability of input          xerketing mrgins.
systa  to         arketins  nd Ceualize
(a) satisfy       aeess Conditions to    Adoption of autistie
present growth   the activity for all    lndextioUn formulae
of consumptimn   operators.                 for fertilizer erketing
and lb) ensure                              arsins.
adequate and      stoplify regulations                                  .bvise the cri-   .stablish the list   . ACtual closing down              Closing di' of at
timely avail-    regarding seed eulti-   Closing down of sm               terua of ASAL-l       of eearernent           of 4II of the mutlets   least en aJition-
ability of        plication activitles.   Govermn.nt-run fertillzar   regarding closing   outlets to be closed   meting the criteria.   el 4C  of the
fertilizer                                  distribution outlets          dewn of outlets.    dowt  according to                                  mutlets meting the
across the                                  according to pre-             based on the          retained criteria,                                criteria.
country.                                    established criteria          evolution of
(Volu   of sales, level       sales and the
Encourage                                   of private sector invol-    private distri-                                                                                   . Cclete deremsulatia
private and                                 veoment.                      bution network,                                                                                   of fertiliaer mrketi
cooperative                                                               so as to concen-                                                                                  (elimination  f fix"
sector            Encourage storage by    Participation of private    trate ramining                                                                                        argins and price
participation    private sector.           cmanies In fertilizer         sales outlets In                                                                                  controls).
In Input                                   itport and distribution        low rainfall
marketingl                                  plaming.                      areas.                                                                                            Liberalize fertilize
storage.                                                                                                                                                                    itots.
transfer ell seed        Partial transfer of seed    Conlete transfer   Prepare draft legal                                    Create a securit,
mjltiplification acti-  production activities           of cereal seed       text creating                                      stock of certified
vities frca INRA to      16-4) from INCA to             production           security stocks of                                 cereals sao". U                          L
SOWACOS and private      SOGTAISOWACOS.                 activities (G-41    certifted cereals
sector.                                                 from SHUA to         seeds.2/
SMCETA/SOMACOS L/
Oevelop seed producers                                  and prepare with-
associations.                                           drawal plan
for the 6-3.
Provide financial        Decision to grant              Issue operating
InCentives to sold       royalties to INCA for          procedures for
varietal developant    seed varietal develop-           for royalty
in INA.                  innt.                          grants to INRA.
It  Escept for new varieties for the first U years.
I/ Financed by users throush integration of costs in the price structure.



10
S(COUIECL  TL  stem             EKUT LOA
tnrtArLE Or AfJUSISET immAx
SAritultujal Na   Feed Priein  and bartetin.*  tna.ts Ifartiizrtaed.rtaatian lbterl
Aetions Prooose  fie  ASk-11
Government's         Mediug-Term                Actions taken                     Before           Prior to First          Prior to Secad           Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustment Program           UWder ASAL-1                   Wegotiations         Tranche flease          Tranche aeleaas          Traneh  ftlease            bedlui tam
Eliminate the    Eliminate gradually   . in  Increase in average                                                           Increase weighted         Increase weighted    . Colste tlet-
distortions       a11 Input subsid1ie        fertilizer prices In 'uS.                                                    averas  fertli2er         avernge fertiliter      tain af fertilimze
Within the        while mintainins                                                                                        reference price by        referuce price           subsiiem  by
agricultural      production incenti.es .202 Increase In                                                                  lit in T)uaw iesa4.j      by lII In ham             Uecle"r 1969.
sector which      through output             fertilizer prices In                                                                                   19X9 or s agree
result rrv        pricing.                   lk,6                                                                                                   With the mW*t./
Input
subsidies.        oeduce subsidies           Freeze In subsidies on        Continued to                                 .aintain the preeze         N intain the
on HNV seed.              NYW  Sead at their 1934        free2e on NHW  seed                           NYW  seed suhsidites.     freeie on TK
lvoel,                        subsidies.                                                               sad subsidies.
Achieve full cost         Adoption of a five-year
recovery for irriga-    progra, for increased
tion water.               water charge collection
rates to be reached by
each OHNA.
Increase of bastc water
charges by IS to 202
and pwuing charges by
522.
Increase in collection                              Collection rate of       Collection rate of        Collection rate
rate of water charges to                            witer trarles of         water charges             of water chargs
57X In 195.                                         642 In 19S6.             in 19i7 of 7iS.           of 6nl In 191.
. Issuance of inter-
ministerial lnstructlons
authorizing ORAS to
apply a 9n distribution
argin for Input supply.
the real cost for other
services, and to transfer
couwarcial services over
a 3-S year period.
1/ WIth reference to CLF prices (nitrogen and potassiia based fertilizers) and FOB prices (locally Produced Phosphates.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-



TintUaL OFl ADJLISTENT PWEUAM
Canensiatrv Prr         or the Gradual flhAminlan of Foo dSusidies
Aetions Prooosed saWrr  ANAL-r l
Gdverwvent s         FHdiu.a-leru             Actions taken                    lerare           Prior to first         Prier to Second         Prer to  Third
Objuctthes        Adjustment Proram            Under AAL-1                   Nesotiations        Trafihe  llease        Trancte ties'            Trumshe kleJsle I dmu Tern
Protect low    . Strengthen the existing                               . Firalit woerk         Submit Final  roaeo-  . Effective start-   or . Cftlue IsSpl -
Incasn grcups    food security systm                                     pgroram for the      sg1s concerning          tareetted COMeSa-        tatios of the
rrao the          by expanhion or                                        design of             tarsetted comensa-    tory progra.               targtted c spa-
effects of the   coc.ensatory program                                    tareetted cawen-   tori progra                                         tory prwgrv.
gradual eli-      in parallel with                                       satory proerm
mination of       the reduction of                                        loptions. tim-
food subsidies,  food subsidies.                                         table, modali-
ties).
I
-. 
.1§
rL 



KrIGWI OF ICOCC
SECOND AGRICULTURAI SECTOS AAR JASTINT LOA
TIMWTAILE OF ADJUSThMET PROGm
Public Expenditures Prgcra
ArktgimsJ-aina&d sSng.MAs4L_____11_____
Governrentts tgdius-Term                       Actions taken                     fefore           Prior to First          Prior to Second         Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustment Program           Under ASAL-I                    gotiations         Tranche Release         Trance  etease zstraathe Rlease                             Tom
lmprove the       Put greater emphasis  .Adoption of a priority           Priority alloca-    Priority allocations                                Priority alloca-
contribution      on Public investment    core program.                   tions of 1981         for 198 appropria-                               tims of 1989
of public         operattons for                                          appropriations        tions to the c'-wle-                              aperoeriatiom to
investment        rainfed agricultural    Distribute budget alloca-   to the cmyletlion   tion of the core                                       the cvlletirn of
Program to        development. saIl-L    tions to subsectors in           of the core           prograo.                                          the core pro@r.
agricultural      eiJtum-scale irriga-    comPliance with agreed          program.
growth.           tion and forest           priorities in the 19F6
development               investment budget.
Pursue the restruc-                                   .Aereemnt on the    Allocation of sufft- .Ensure adesqte level . Allocation of
turing of public         Allocation a' lit of           allocation of &       ieint budgetary to-    of funds in order to    suffitient
Investment in agri-      total budgetary appro-        mintim  of 158 of   proPrietions And           fiance  iARAs l9         budgetary   WQe-
culture (stop non-       priations to agriculture    total budgetary         CMeiLtmnts to NAc    investment prorm.             prietlens amd
priority operations,    in 196a                         appropriations       In the lsa9 invest-                                cenitm_nts to
accelersted completion                                  and cfmitkents       mtnt bwdget to                                    HARA In the 19E9
oF priority opera-       Setting up of a Compute-    to MARA In the          permit execution of                                In .  t ent budget
tions). and Improve      riaed systec for monthly    1e;7/a8 invest-         the priority Invest-                               and aiequte level
the titelIness of        monitoring of appropria-    ment budgets.           nnt program.                                       of fiting to
budget execution.        tions, cin9tumnts Vnd                                                                                  aswe financtng
'upan"itures on the           Approval of MAM                             . DrOval of HAM             of 19M  invest nt
Strengthen Investment   Investment budget for           investmnt program                             Investment prograw In   budgt.
progrmsino nthodo-    agriculture,                      in 19e7.                                      194
logies for projects
end general suoport                                     Finaliae develop-                             Preparation of no         AWproval of MEA
groorans In the                                       _ant and invest-                                legal tests regarding   investent program
sector.                                                ant priorities                                 structural interven-    In Sen.
for rainfed and                                tions In the ralnfed                                              I
irrigated agricul-                            sector (partial         . Subit to the                            *
twre during the                               revision of Agricul-    Cosscil Of                                co
next Ceveloient                               tural Investment           eve gmt few                             I
Plan (198-1192;:                              code).                    legal frmaien
ci selection of                                                         regarding struc-
small-scale                                                         tural lnterventian
Irrigation                                                          In the raInfed
projects to be                                                      sCter (partial
finfearL   during                                                   revision of
the 'lan -n                                                         AgriCultural
acLejdanca with                                                     Investtnt code.
agreed criteria;
bh agreuint on
priority anking
or large Irriga-
tion projects to
to be financed
during next Plan:
c) agreement on the
design bf regional
priorities for
the rainfed
sector.



KIfGlN OF IIOCCO
SIECOND ACGCUCLIUAL SECTOM ADIUSiENL LOAN
TYICTAILE OF AiJuifTHET PIMEAM
Sutoort Services: mnsearch
Promosed Action Under AStL-11
Goverruwnts    Medium-Term           Actions CoWleted                           eforn             Prior to First         Prior to Second          Prior to Third
ObJectives   Adjustment Prosrm       Prior to and Under ASAL-                Negotiations         Tranche uelease        Trenche Release          Tranche Etlease         Hediua-Ters
-Reorgan-    -Reorganihation of -Enactment of a law In Apr. 1931          -Open 12 new         -Submission by           -Adootion of the new    -Ifinaton of 5            -Extend resarch
lie and      of IhRA's struc-   supplemented by an implnntation    positions for                RItA to the Ministry   financial budgetary        deputy accountants      by objections
strength-    ture I activites   decree in Mar. 19t2 ereating  IRA    high level                of Finance of the        and accounting            fee the Co" of           nd budget
en the        including!          £ giving it the  andate to organ-    researchers,            draft legal text         organiuation of IRUA.   Agadir. Taner             progrm 0s i all
hational       definition of      ize coordinate £ execute all sgo-                             defining the new                                  Oujda. Kenitra and      research.
Amricul-       national re-       ment agricultural research,                                   budgetary, financial                             hont Itllal.
tural          search priori-                                                                  and accounting                                                            -Strengthen
Research       ties for the      -Stud, by ISNAR on INRA's structure                            organization.                                                             coordination
System to      next S years;      L activities (in consultation with                                                                                                      of reserach
support ex-                        ank).                                                       -Nomination of 3        -Create 12 new                                     carried out by
tens0on       enactnent of in-                                                                 deputy accountants       poSitions for high                                goverv n1t
service       structions de-    -Assieruent of a new statute for                                for the CRMA of         level researchers                                 agencies (define
with effi-   fining I[RA's new  personnel with increase in salaries                             settat. Meknes and                                                       wuoing rules
cient crop-  organigram;          and of financial autonrwy for IhRA.                          Marrakech.                                                                 of the different
ping pat-                        -Selection of the field research                                                                                                         conmttees.
terns I      closing down of    stations 9 commorcial seed produc-                             -Revise statute of
responses    about half of the  tion activities to be closed doe.                               KERA researchers.
to specific  stations with re-
problem,    grouping of staff -Forul approval of new organiza-
on fewer loce-      tional structure for IlRA.                                   -Presentation of
-Increase      tions.                                                                            ISA's 1938 budget
INhA's ef-                       -Actual closing down of 25 research                           based on research
fectiveness .owleuentation        stations I Dart of commercial                                 priorities.
In execut-   of the progras       cereal seed pred. activites (G43.
Ing priori- for research by
ty re-       objectives and    -Preparation of an leplementation
search.       budget-progr_s.   progrom basud on 1SlAM's proposals
for IlAA reorganization.
.transfer to other
agencies of most
of the commercial -Iplementation o.' new statutes for
G-seed produc-    lIRA persornel.
tion.
-Preparation of priority research
progrm for priority croeps (eer-.
gals, livestock, forages a olive
trees .
-Dev. of research contracts between
IlRA & other agencies In line
with new priorities.
-Starting up In 1986/J7 of new
progra  based on prioritites
defined for cereals, olive trees.
livestock I forages.
-Starting up the i.plmenntation of
structural changes proposed in
studies for information processing
and computerization.
-Starting up implemL tation of re-
search by objectives for Saharian
agriculture and rainfed agri-
culture In arid aznes.
ten



.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~raot -, mar
SICONO AtUICUtTIJSAL SECTOR AfIJUSMM?T LOA
TIMETALE OF AO3JSTIEUT PROGRAM
Sunnort Services: Extensign
PranauiArtii 1ar ASAL-11
Governmen'i    Miedins-Term                                                      Before            Prior to First          Prior to Secord          Prior to Third
ObJectives   Adjustisnt Program    Actions Completed Under ASAL-1             Negotiations         Trancthe Release        Trmnche ftlease          Truic he Nlelese           Me    urnTe
-Introduce -EmplomLenation of -Iawlementation of the new extension -Increase by Lrans- -Otaignate a S11S uitt -Creation or an exten-
after eva-   the extension         System in Bank-financed agricult.    for the number all  at OVIA level with            sian division at O%tL.
luation the  systeiv based an    develop. projects.                        extension agents    one coordintatr.
training &   11V methodology                                               in Pilot Cis to at                            -Creation of extension
visit         ifl Ill CTl/OWs.   -Preparation of a Master Plan by          least 6.                                       Services at the OPA
system salt-                       June lo. 1ose,                                                                         level and OSIVA.
able tor    -Complete separa-
Morocco for  tion at field                                                -Strengthen the
extension    level of Exten-   -Starting up extension based on the   cooperative oFfice
nationwide.  tion work from        new methodology in El pilot CTs.        by assigrment of
all other activi-                                            one engineer to
ties in CT/OWV.   -Creation of a revolving fund to           participati in
finance operating expenses              the study on
-Designation of a   for about 28 CTs applying the new    cooperatives.
head of extension methodology.
In each CT/OWY &                                            -Select the agency
at CPA levels.    -Establishmnent of a unit at MARA to   to tale over
monitor pilot Crs activities.           CENEY £ define Its
-Esteblishunent of                                            legal statute.
subject metier    -Integration of livestock within
specialists tea.   extension agent activities In El
at the OPA/DRMVA   pilot CTs
level.
-Cancellaltion Of subSidieS for farm                                                                                                                         0o
-Phasing out of      mechanization services.
non-extension-
related se,vices -Evaluation of the pilot extension
and discontinu-    program  in 28 Cls by 11/21/lB.
Ing farm mechani-
zation services. -Developmeint of Programs f or closer
linkage between lIlIA £ extension.
-Continuation of upgrading CTs
directors' to the engineers levels.
-Preparation of annual training
program by Aug. I1 every year In
pilot ETs
-Creation of a third year far
training in extension at
agricultural colleges.
-Closing down Farm Mechanization                                                                                                           -Comlete stoppage
Services of 2a CYs by 12/31fif8B                                                                                                           oF Farm mch.ani-
and suspension of all traCtors                                                                                                             zto    evcs
purchase for CTs nationwide.
..                                                                       F



.t ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~suLm  o      ..,r .0.c.
!,.>( ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ SC   AfhrUmA 'EIC ;kMTU  LO
KlbNGOM OF HtOW"x
TIETAtLE or FADusLIureT Rot"A
Suponrt Services: Livestock
*I7ernmunt's         Ikdi1uaTeju               ActionS taken                    Before            Prior to first         Prior to Secon           Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustment Program           UAder ASAL-1                  Uegetiatlons         Tranche felease         Tranchh fleiss          Tranche felease              Mediiu  Term
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                  aurw loan -n  rw1-
Improve the       Privatize veterinary    Privatization of                Identify 40          Actual prtvatization   transfer of artifl-   . Actual privatiza-            *emnraliaz
efficiency of    medcine and carry out  veterinary medicine               additional tones    In 20 additionl           CIA) lseoinition          tion In 2R  addi-         wrivately m*mued
animal health    prophylactic health        in 20 pilot zones.            fet orivatization   zwons (total:  40).    activities to rodu-    tionl inrs                      an1e? health
services,         services through                                        of animal nealth                              cers in 5 additional    (total:  d)                 services to the
contracts of public                                     services V  and                               wones and identifica-                              entire cmuntry.
sector with private                                     of 10 iones for                               timn of 5 other zones.
veterinarians,                                          the transfer of                                                       . Transfer of artifi-
artificial                                                             cial ismination
insmination ser-                                                       services to pro-
vlces to producers                                                     ducers in is
roups.                                                                 additionl zones
(total:  251.             Corlete with-
Improve the       Gradually restrict        Issuance of leoal             Actual tranifer                                                                                  drawl ef htwie
efficiency of    Govt. lntervention         fraswork for the with-        of artificial                                                                                     sector *ro d-
aninal breeding  to provision or Sown   drausl of public sector           insminaltion                                                                                      livery of artificial
services,         and storage facilities  from artificial irsemi-         services to                                                                                       Snsinstion su ties
for artificial inse-    nation services.                Producers eroups                                                                                 fother than storage
mination; transfer                                      in 20 zones.                                                                                     ad producti0n of
gradually the breed-                                                                                                                                     frozen SOil
ing stations to
producers groups.                                       tdentify breeding                             Actual transfer of
centers the mana-                             identified breeding                                                   -
ge_nt of whtch                                centers.
can be transferred
to producers groups
jI In order to avoid payment arrears by the State to private veterinarlans for prophyizCtiC health services.
the necessary funds will be allocated to an existing special account.
oj



KIOc   F 01I XCO
SICSSICULThIre -MtTD ADUSTMT LoM
TlIlETAULt OF      RULT12M
Forestry and tod ProArts
Atrtinr  PrhasSer  SU-Il
Goverrent's           NedILm-Ttra              Actions Coaleted                  Before           Prior to First          Prior to Sweond         Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustaent Program          UWder ASAL-1                    Notiations          Tranche blease          Truths Salaass          Trifce SalemO                Idiua Tem
Attain effec-    Iwleant poliCy                                           Apoint Inter-                                  Translete these           Submssion of
tive self-        manures to reduce                                       ministerial Cor-                              masures Into a              lai-cadre  to
sufficimncy in   Illegal cutting and                                      mission with TOls                              draft *loi-ca4re         6eermn_nts
Industrial        overgrazing and land                                    acceptable to the                             forestilre.               Council.
wood and con-    clearing to increase                                     Ban  to sake pro-
tribute par-      regeneration of                                         posals for
tially to the    forests.                                                 natural regenera-
need for fuel-                                                            tion of forests.
wood and
forage.           Accelerate the                                          Prepare a prio-       Include priority                                  Include priority
nationOl forest In-                                     rity proram for    pranra In PSA's                                      progrm In NAS's
vmntory and manage-                                     national forest       1Hi investant                                      sUs  wvast_nt
mnt plan studies,                                       Inventory and        budet.                                             budet.
including the deli-                                    enageant plans                                                                                                    I
mitation of State                                       for 1987-g1.
forest areas in the                                                                                                                                                      N
Sif.
Identify clearly                                                             Finralie TOAs for        Finalize study on       .Iplwent study's
arket options for                                                            the carryins out of  _  rtet options for           recoeations In
industrlal wood                                                              study on market          wood prowucts hearing   the contest of
products.                                                                    optins for wood          In mind the varius       Sti's priority
produets,               users and the need        Progrm.
ror forest protection
activities.
IsA
*!a .



TTIAKIJE OF ADO   THET Fi
goverment's          Medits-Tera              Actions Completed                hefore           Prior to first         Prior to Second          Prior to Third
Objectives        Adjustment Prorm            Under ASAt-1                  Negotiations        Tramhe bless           Truahs blese             Trase  nlece                  edium Tm
Improve the        Develop mere flexible   Apply a 6S tax on the        .-ontify and study                                                      Prmration ad
organization      finacing mchanisms    imprt of lumer to                                                             measures peritting       stissgin to
of forestry       for raforustation        replenish the FPF.                                                         the raife1nroret and   Goern_t Of
activittes        activities.                                                                                         lmplentation of the   legal MM roela-
in the cuntry.                                                                                                        finaning achanile        tory texts related
for reForestation        to imprevnt of
activities.              finamine
Designte specific                                    . Idntify priority                                                      machanisi for
areas for natural                                      areas for forestry                                                    reforestation
and artificial                                         regnration in                                                         activitSn
regeneration for                                       iga7n8. aW
iOu-Si *                                ~~~~~~~~~prepare an
indicative
prorm for the
next 5-year Plan.
Imlmnt an annual                                     . Provide adepate  . Provision of                                     . Provide of
reforestation progrm                                   funding In 1N?7    ad"ate funding In                                  adeete  funding
of 40,000 ha.                                          for the regenera-   IM  for the                                        inl199 For the
tion progrm at       regenration prOgrm                               regamaratimn
the target level.   at the target level.                              prgra  it trh
target level.



SECOND AfhCITEt It.if  AMJUSTMNT L
u    A        Of ,i  RLAL.SJIeT eu'  aL:
LaiW PalAtles  raoadLae SAtf
Goveranmet'         PMedium-Tar.               Actions Taken                    Bef ore          Prior to First         Priar to Second          Primr to Third
ObJectives        Adjustment Program           Under ASAL-1                  Negotiation         Tranche Release         Tranche ftelsen          reanche htlt@              tdifl Tom
Promote the         Develop the legal        Preparation and subuls-       Identify                                      Comlete th_  prepa-
estabiishment    framwork applicable    sion to the Council of            potential                                    ration of a priority
of economi-       in the rainfed           CGovernment of the legal       priorit), areas                              land consolidation
cally viable      Sector in the             Package Applicable to         for land consoli-                            program for  gsa8-9
production        following areas:         agricultural land policy.   dation program                                  (technical and
unintst.                                                                  in the high rain-                            eComaiC study).
* Provide setter   a) consolidation and                                   fall areas of the
security of          prevention of land                                   rainfed sector.                            .Start the study to         Presentation of the
tenure to            frawontation;                                                                                     review the opportuinity  stuody to review the
tenant            b) expropriation and                                                                                 of setting UVe a lanm    onortwiitv of
farmers,             land transfers:                                                                                   apeaty to gncourage       setting Lo a land
c) privatization of                                                                                  fam. restructuring.      ageny to U~W5gOLr
*Strengthen the       collective land                                                                                                             farm restructurinog.
knowledge of         included in con-
characteristics      solidation scheems:
and production   d) land leases
potenttial of     el land use obligations.
holdings as a
necessary data
base for
inplenntation .Improve fluidity of                                                           .Finalize TOWS to be
of land policy,  agricultural lanvd                                                            agreed with the Sank
aurkets.                                                                     of a study to review
the costs, benefits
and mode of function-
nling of a specialized
Speed up the                                                                 land credit schin.
Cadastral Survey and                                       EfPrepare a priority
land registration                                                                                    progra   for Cadastral
operations.                                                                                          Survey and land regis-
Complete  the identi-                                                                                tratio  for th   -fl.
fication of collective
lands In the high
rainfall areas of the
rainfed sector.
tenure to   frgwentst10n;                                                 rev1ew the oP90rtunitr  Study to r w1eu tho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
ten nt   b} exPrePr1atlen ane                                             of *ett1n u a linX    oPsortun1ty of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



KINGDOM OF MOROCCo
SIIR.AG1CUULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT MOAN
TIMETABLE OF AOJUSThEMT PROGAM
Prowition of Aurn-!nduttrial Imrint
-.M                                   5Aol ProDsed under ASAL-II
Government s          Medium-Term               Actions taken                     Before           Prior to FirSt          Prior to Second          Prior to Third
ObjeCLives        Adjustment Program            Under ASAL-1                   Negotiations        Tranche Release         TrFnCha Release          Tranthe Release               Mldius Tern
Increase          El[lmnation of           Elimination of all export
exports of        exaorts restrietions   certificates relating to
Moroccan agro-                             agro-industrial products.
Industrial
products by                                Elimination of the statis-
improving the                              tical export tax.
existing
incentive                                  Elimination of all packagtng
scheme and                                 materials (including glass
taking trade                               for packagins) from negative
facilitation                               lists of PGI.
measures.
Sloolif1cat1on of        A posteriori settlement of
E.cuegn_Trade            customs litigations without
_£Dc*tarCs               blockage of ongoing transac-
- Extension of           tion.  snmediate *provisional'
temporary admission  customs clearance of perish-
procedures to all    able goods, decentralization
inputs of the         of administration of  export-
sector.               ation prealable". reduction of
- Speeding up of        custun processing time to a
customs clearance,   maxims of four hours for
exports and five days for
imports, introduction of
global annual custous
guarrantees.
Updating of customs code
and tariff list.
Facilitation of          Separation of OCE's           Set up national                                                          Present findings of
quality control          quality control function    comittee                                                                   national c _ ittee
procedures,              from the Administration.    Composed of-the                                                            to Bbvernent.
Administration
and professional
associations to
revise standards
for control
system.



>fi=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IGO or r.m,c .
i
5ECOhD ACICULTUEL SECTII ADJUSfMEI
TMTWABLE F  *fufliET   SA
fjrjjt1r it Aura-Industrial Exorts
ActiJJs  Proeosed      r ASAh-II
Geverwnt s              Mediu  Turn                   Actions Taken under          Before           Prior to First            Prier to Second              Prior to Third
Objectives             AdJustent Proerm                ITFA I and ITPA It         Negotiations    Tranche ftleass             Tramnhe fleass               Tranchu  fleas s              dia Term
Encourage the develop-    aroWant of SuanRly. Initiatton of a study   Publication of results  . Praetimn of
Mont of export              Cmdimn                                                                 on nTOs as agreed with  of the study In a fo-_          stadard ce-
oriented agro-                                                                                     the Uank an the agro-   easily accessiblo to            tracts and
Industries and of           - Improve contractual                                                  industrial sector          to Producers. agrs-         alternative
private trading               relations Wtween                                                     with special emhasis   Industrialists and               organi2atiohal
co anies.                    producers and agro-                                                  on existing contraCt    their associatins.              structures to
Industrialists                                                       types and oreantix-                                    producers and
(profit participation                                                tional structures.                                     agraindustria-
or producers, ete.)                                                                                                         lists.
and encourage
foration of local
Producer associations
or Coops.
Diversification of
Exoort Markets and
Iarovmnt of .rkutina
Caaab111t  e
- Elimination of          - Elimination of OCE
restrictions on export  export msrketing
marketing                 mnopoly for agro-
industrial produ cts.                                                                                                                    o
- Encourage the           - Reduction of mini1mm
forntion of private    export volme from
trading companies.        Orl   million to
Oi 2 million to te
eligible for ISP
exeMption.
Imrormernt of Export
financing Mechanism
- Improvement of          - Creation of a foreign
foreign exchange          exchange risir fYrd.
risk coverage.
- Improve exporters       - Automatic allocation   - Establish
access to foreign         of foreign exchange up   mnt of a
exchange for the pur-   to 32 of annual export   revolving
chase of Inputs and       value (possibility of    fund in
for market Protec-        accamultion).               In foreiln
tion,                                                 exchange
for the
financing
inlorted
Inputs



SECONO AGRICULTURAL sECinT ADJUS1HWMI LOAN
TINETA  - oF AOJuSfUt £tU
Strmnothanmno Sectoral Policy Analysis Capabilittes
--Actions Pronosed urder ASAL-I1
GovetvmtnL's         Mediwm-Term              Actions Taken                    Before           Prior to first         Prior to Secor            Pfrior to Third
Objectives        Adjustment Program          Under ASAL-I                  Negotiations        Tranche Release        Tranche ftlease             ranche Release           Hediui-Tern
Build up a        Set up with external    Completion of the Agri-        Prepare OPAE work   Start studies to         Start studies to        . Actual set uP of
sector            assistance (FAG,         cultural Prices and           program  for 1967-   build up analytical    build up analystical    priority aiflytical
planning          USAIDJ a permanent       Incentives Study.             1991 (objectives    tools for the policy   tools for tfi  policy    tools In OPAl for
analysis          analytical capability                                  means, detailed      analysis unit:          analysis unit:            use on a pernanent
capability,       in MARA to:            . Creation of the Agricul-    priorities),             second phase of       a) supply and pro-        basis.
tural Development Fund                              Agric. Prices and         duction functions
a) carry cut analysis   lFDA).                         Finalt2e               rncentives Study         for the ejor
Develop              on agricultural                                     operating rules        (regionaliied            ciodities;
quantitative         pricing and           Creation of a parastatal    and procedures           approach. inclu-      bi desan  analysis
criter   for         narketing policies;  specialized In ogricul-        of FDA.                sian of mre               (elasticities. .
planninig and     bi review incentives    tural economics and policy                            commodities ....)     cl price  ndes of
Investm_nt           to production and    analysis (AGROCONCIPT).                                                        agricultural inputs.
selection in         private Investment
agriculture.,        priorities in ag-    Strengthenine of OPAE                                                                                                                        I
riculture;            In terms of staffing.
cl analyze public in-
Strengthen          vestment priorities                                                                                                                                                 A
the monitoring      in agriculture.                                                                                                                                                    I
and evaluation   d) undertake long-
or public            tern strategic
sector               work (modelling,
development          etc.. I
actions In        el carry out system-                                                        Establish work pro-    Lauunch study related    Present results of
agricultur'.         atic monitoring a                                                        grm for collection    to costs of produc-         study on costs of
evaluation of                                                            of statistics re-       tiensrro  budgets.       preductimi/Jfrn
projects and                                                             lated to costs of                                budgets.
programs                                                                 production.
Initiation of a train-
ing program In monitor-
ing and evaluation for
OPAE personnel.
4
N6



SECOND ArRICULTURAL SECTO7 ADJUSTMEfT LOAM
TIWETAE OF ADJUSTMN  PROGAM
External trade Realmv In Agriculture
Aetions Proocsed under ASAL-11
Coverrment's         Nudilu-Term               Actions Taken                     Sefore           Prior to First         PrIor to Seeowd            Prior to Third
Objectings        Adjustment Program           under ITPA-11                  Negotiations        Tranche Release        Tranche Release            Tranchte blea.             Shute   term
Improve cases- . Liberalization of          Transtfr of a nuSber of       finalizatLin by      Preparation of a         Transfer of first         Tranfer te list A
titiveness        external trade by         industrial produets           DPAE of TORs          first list of           list of products to       of agricultural
of the agri-      elaimnating quanti-       from list B to list A.        agreed with the       products (including    list A of 1itO PSI         prodduets In context
cultural and      tative restrictions       and from list C to            Sank on the trade   oil takes) to trans-   and p.paration of            of 1 91  PGI fore-
food process-    (quotas  licenses,         list S or A of the PGI.       liberalization        fer to the freely       tintable of transfer   seen In tinetable.
Ing sector        authorliattons,                                         study for           i1nortable Regme          of the other agri-
while ensuring   import monopolies)         Revision of overall           agricultural          in the context of       cultural products
a minimm          and replacing with        tariff structure.             soods.I/              the 19t8 P&I. with      with prior notice
level of          adequate tariff                                                              an adequate prote-    tnereof; thiS tim-
protection to    barriers compatibl.   Ruduction of the                                         tion mechanis..         table will cover a
donestic          with GATT rules and       special tax (TSI).                                                          perlod of 4 years be-
production.       consistent wtth the                                                                                    tnning In 1989.
provisions of the        Reduction of basic
Use external      ITPA program.             customs duties to
trade as the                                a maxits of 45i.
Instrument                                                                                                                                                                                CD
of market                                                                                                                                                                                 cD
regulation and                                                                                                                                                                            I
stabilization.
1J The study would be carried out by MARA/DPAK. Division of Econele Affairs In eonsultation with MCI fExternal Tra,d and Industry
Departments) and the rAE (Directorate of Prices).
, ,t;
- .                                                   a



- 89 -                           ANNEX VI
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
TECHNICAL SUPPORT VOLUME
Table of Contents
Volume I
Page No.
Introduction .........................................................    1
CHAPTER I     PRICING AND INCENTIVES FRAMEWORK:  MAIN ISSUES
AND NEW POLICY DIRECTIONS ..............................   2
CHAPTER II    COMPENSATORY MEASURES TO ALLEVIATE THE IMPACT OF FOOD
SUBSIDY REDUCTION:  EXPANDING FOOD SECURITY PROGRAMS         99
CHAPTER III   IRRIGATION: POLICY DIRECTIONS IN SECTORAL
MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT PRIORITIES .... ........  127
CHAPTER IV    RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY:  IMPLICATIONS FOR
THE DESIGN OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES PRIORITIES .... .......  163
CHAPTER V     SUPPORT SERVICES:  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH .....    ..........  212
CHAPTER VI    SUPPORT SERVICES:  AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ....    ..........  260
CHAPTER VII   SUPPORT SERVICES:  LIVESTOCK ......    296
VOLUME II
CHAPTER VIII  FORESTRY AND WOOD PRODUCTS:  POLICY AND STRATEGY ......   331
CHAPTER IX    IMPACT ANALYSIS OF THE POLICY PACKAGE ......    391
CHAPTER X     PROMOTION OF AGRO-INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS ..       .    ......  652
CHAPTER XI    MONITORING SECTOR PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS UNDER THE
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM:  FRAMEWORK AND INSTRUMENTS ......    672
CHAPTER XII   STRENGTHENING LOCAL CAPABILITIES IN POLICY ANALYSIS:
ACTION PROGRAM AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE NEEDS ....... . 688
This report and the President's Report for the Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan are based on the findings of preparation and appraisal
missions which visited Morocco between April and November 1986. These missions
were composed of Messrs. T. Baudon (Mission Leader), C. Chung (Economist),
S. Darghouth (Rural Engineer), J. Glenn (Livestock Specialist), F. Reeb
(Agronomist), H. Tuluy (Economist Consultant), B. van de Poll (Agronomist), and
Mesdames S. Patel (Economist) and B. Mierau (YP). H. Benabderrazik and
0. Alaoui (Consultants Agro-Concept), assisted the missions for the impact
analysis of the policy package.



KINGOMI OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTUtAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PUBLIC INVEsTMENT PROGRAM IN AGRICULTURE
Core Group of Priority Proiects and ProErag
Evolution of its Share in Total Planned Investments and Actual Expenditures
Project/Program                 ludoetary Nomenclature                1984                        1985                          1986 Ia                 .A L/.e
Article   Para.   Line    Budgetary        (Actual      Budgetary    14±tual          Budgetary    (Actual            adisetary
Allocations   Expend.)   Allocations    :Pend.)         Allocations   Expend.)           Allocations
Small & Medium- Scale Jg
Irrigation Program           11        5        1 to 9        106           (65)        1SO         L8                 27D         (84)              i3
Integrated Rural
Development Projects: /b   13          4        1 to 9         n1          LI4           [n         (117)             2iS         (104)             2*
3        2        6
Large-Scale Irrigation'c   13          1 to 9  2 and 11       fl0          12191         46         141                            1269)              AI
*   Extension and Research      10        1 to 5                   55          (31)          78         (373               Ifl         (58)              12
15       Ito 4
Rangeland Improvement        3         1        1 and 2                      16)          1( a)1                         1°          (7)               lb
Program
Soil Canservation and
Sylvo-Pastoral Programs    9           ID       I to 4         2            (20)          fl         (16)                23         (14)                21
Reforestation program /4   9           8        1             11            (89)         167        llOll              LU          (103)              3M /d
9         15      1
9         16      1
Subtotal Core Program                                     US           (Sl)        1.102        (6331            1.757        (639)             L.lA"
Total Investment Program                                1.435          (854)       1.9           626             L4U          (712)             2.32
Core Program as a Percentage
of Total I vestment                                    562           (70)X         69X        (T6t)              72         (8on)               8Zt
'a Including the Bank-financed prc ..t (15SI-1-).
b 1Icluding Sank-financed projects (Fes-Karia-Tissa. Oulmes-Rowmni, Hiddle Atlas).
/; Excluding non-priority operations in Gharb and Loukkos OFIVAs; includinj Bank-financed.
/d Including National Forestry Fund and Bank-financed projects (Gharb-mbmora and Loukkos).
e Including zommitted carry-over appropriations which were merged into the Loi de Finance starting in 1986.
. 345E/p19



-91 -                                               T    2
KINGDOMOFO MOROCCO
SECOND AGIRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1987 PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRANN ACRICULTURE
Core Croun of Prior7ty Proleets and Programs- 1987
Project/Program                         Budgetary Nenclature                 1997 Budgetary      Estimated Commitmnts
Article   Para.   Line               Allocations          Required in 1987
(--------(OH Million)-----------
*   Small & Medium Scale                  11         £     1 to 9                 in                     3
Irrigation Program                    12       1 to 9    4                     60                    60 /i
(of which SHS-I Jal                  11         s       2
*   Integrated Rural Devel. Projects    13           4     1 to 9                 2i                    Ut
(of which:
-   Fes-Karia-Tissa /a            13        4        1                   100                    100 In
-   Oulmes-Rommani Ifl            13        4        4                    40                     40 In
-  Pfddle Atlas /a )               3        2        6                    52                     S2 /C
*   Large-scale Irrigation /f             12       I to 9  2 and 11              MffA                   Iu
of which LSI Project  Al)             12       1 to 9  11                     115
*   Extension                             10       I to 5                         ii                     42
*   Research (IPRAR                       IS       I to 4                          iz                    4I
*   Rangeland Improvement Program         3          1     1 and 2                 16                    it
*   Soil Conservation and
Sylvo-Pastoral Programs               9          9     1 to 4                  32                    25
ReforestatiDn Programs                9          8     1                      302                   302
of which:
-   Gharb-HManra /a               9       I5       1                      65                     65 /n
-   Loukkos /a                    9       16       1                      40                     40 /!
Subtotal Core Program                1,892                 1.641
Total Investment Program             2.320
Core Program as a percentage
of Total Investment                   82S
/A Bank-financed.
fk Excluding non-priority operations in Gharb.
fn  Given the amounts of unpaid conmitments carried over from 1986. a 1001 comnitaentslappropriations ratio
is required in 1987 on Bank-financed projects to avoid a slowdown in implemientation.
2045E/p21
j045E



- 92 -
Table 3
NIORUOC                               02-Feb--7
SECOND AGRICULTIURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION
INVESTWEN PRIORITIES
NET PRESENT VALUE
-             PROJECT-        --            NET PRESENT          NET PRESENT!
!            !                                                  V !   MALUE  !     VALUE
OMIVA        N NO  !          NAIE                !RK!      T IOX      !RK!   AT 12Z
flUKKAU        I   ! HAIT SERVCE                     12 !     (91,744.6)!13  (I59,055.61!
! GR             2  ! Ni RIZl, N5, Nh, N10, N,  10 !14  !  (204,884.5)!14 ! (212,129.11!
!  3   ! STY NI,I N2                    !13 1    (120,917.1)!12 !(124,163.9)!
!  4   !BEHT S4, S5                       7         45,843.2 ! 7!   26,31.8 !
!  S      B EEHT S8, S9                 110        117,042.7)! 9!  (25,145.4)!
!HAOUD       !  6   ! TESSADUT AVAL                     I!      7S,OID.! II!  553,111.7!
!  7   ! CENTRAL NI, l2                 !4!       264,394.2 !4!  173,222.9
!   !  8   ! CENTRAL 13,  4,15            2! 2    512,58B.0 !2    387,248.6!
!  9   1 ' CENTRAL Rl                     9!        (4,407.5)! 6 !  117,741.9)!
I            I        I                               t   I                I   I            I
! LDUKKOS    1 10   1 PLAINE ET RIVE DROITE           !11 !     (43,901.6)11! I  (65,43B.4)!
I            I       I                                I   1                I   I            I
! SOUSS-HASSA!  11   ! TRADITIDNNEL LERE TRINCHE    ! 6         167,449.9   6 b    117,492.3 !
12   ! TRADITIOINEL 2EIE TRANCHE    ! 5        208,976.0 I!5   146,570.0 !
1  13   ISEBT GUERDANE                  ! 3 1     267,712.1 73!  200,155.4 !
I!AD L         1 14   'BENI ANIR                        a 8 !     L2,602.5)!10 !  (54,993.4)!
!            !       !                                1   1                1   !            !



- 93 -
Table 4
mROCCo                      16-br-U
SEMUhD AhIICILIIEML SECTOAR ASTWEN  LOUN
LUBE SCALE IRRIGATION
LWESTEIfT PRIORITEs
NET  EFT-INESTNT RATIOS
!           !              MJiC ECT                    NET  FIT- !
!      I !                           I     INVJESI T
OR"I    !ND !              NlE               1RK I    RATIO    !
I DOWAA   !  1    WHAVT SERICE                   !9!           0.7!
!           I      I                             ! ' !      
! 5WI 1  2  ! 1RIZs N5IN N16f N70 N7  ,10 !11!                 0.3!
!  3  ! STI NIP !2 12                             0.2!
! 4   ! BET 5S5                         7'         1.7 !
!  5      BWITS iS S9               !10!           0.6 !
!       !                            I! !       
a !UUZ      !  6   ! TESS        AVAL            !4!           2.8!
7   ! CENTRL N1 N2               !6!            1.8 !
I  8   ! CELT l3  N s @15           ! 2 !          5.9 !
! 9   i COTRR1             !          8 !          0.8I
! LWOU      ! 10  ! PIAIEET  RIVE MITE            10 !         0.6 !
! ~       ~ !                                 I !               !
SOVSS5-SSA£  11      TRDMONNEL 1E  TRAN!mrE     s !           2.6
!           ! l2   ! TRADITIOINEL 211E TRME    a 3 !           3.1!
! ! 13 ! SEDT6lUAIE                              I1!           6.6 !
!TAL          14    DM  AMR                       8 !          0.8!
!        !      !                            !£  !              !



---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---
LAWG  SCAE IRRIGATION                                                                                   .
INW9TIENT PRLDRITIE9
PRIORITY RANKING OF PROJECTS U1[ER PUBLIC IWJESTKNYII LIMITATIONS
I- ------MJECT - ---------T-  I                     I             I
4       I      ~~~~I                            I            I  TOTAL    I CLIULTIVE I
I  ORNPJA    I  N!NAME                               I   DIR    I   COST    I   (ORHS)   I
9 e.e   9    ee*~.... ..S.... .. . ....    ------
I BWBB-ASSA! I   I KT SERDA                               6.6 I      166,0 I       166.0 I
1HAOUZ       I  2   ICENTRAL Wit N4tN5               I        59!         330.3!I      496.g11
ISOUSI-NABI   3   I TRADIT1IWII2ELEICMANCHE    I              3.1!1      306.9 I      903.7 I
9  4   1TESS      A WLAUI               I        2.9!       729.39I    1,532.0!1
I SIIS-IIASAI  5   I TRDITIOWIL IERE TRANCH         1        2.6 1       161.5 I    1.693.5 1
IIIAOZ       1  6   ICENTRALNi .12                   I        1.91        429,6 1    29123.l1I
IIMAWZ       I  7   IkNTS4.S53I                               187 1        76.2!1   2t399*3I1
I IiHARI     I  U   I CENTRAL RI                     9        0.  I       230.5s I   2.429o,81
fTADLA       I  9   IMDalIMIR                                 Ol0.9!      750.l19    39179.9 1
I DO(KALA   I 10   9IHAUT SERVICE                             Os07 1   1.661.1 I    6494 1,0
1GHARD       I 11   IDEHT Sao S                      I        06!         116.3!1   4t957&3 1
I LO1X(KOS,   1 11   I PLAINE ET RIVE MRITE          I        0.6 I       347.7 1   5v305,0 1
IOI4AR      I 13   HI HiRiZI N5. Nb, lie, 19, 110 I          0.3 I       7M97 I   6,13.  1
owlAR       1 14   'STI Nip 2                       1        09291       223.4!1   6327.14f
-------------  ---------------- --------------- -----------  -  - ---------  -  - 



ItINGOOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ImoorLs of Aaricultural Inputs Ellaible for Financina under Lhe Loan t1987/88 and 1988/891
1JltifI-                                                                                             1 9 8 6  /a --------   ------- Eligible for Financing  /C-
cation                                                                                    Annual
NuLinUbr.    Description of GAoods       Main IMoorters        Procurement Procedures  ImpLortL    _ ValJue.   YAlL  /b           _ 1988  __            JI          andLJt _
(tons)   (DH 'COD)  (US$ 'ooo)   (OH '000)  (Us$OO)   (OH  000)  (US$'000)
o lmd Croos - Irripatgd Crops
SEEOS & SEEOLINfi
07.01.01    Potatoes                     SONACOS. OCE           Normal Procedures for    32,130    77,970           8,633
contracts below
12.03.11   Sugar beet                    SONACOS                US$5 million (private)         852    29,519        3,280
& US$2 million (public);
12.03.30   Forage                        SONACOS,               limited international          544      9,208       1,023
Private companies    bidding by public sector
07.05,      Other Vegetable, Fruit    Private companies    for contracts above                    -    16.209        1.801
12.03                                                         US$2 million
SUBTOTAL                                                                             132.906       14.737      112,500      12.500      225,000       25.000
SECTICIDES, HERIlCIDES
31.11.92   Insecticides                  Private companies    Normal procedures for          2.355    80,619        8,958
38.11.93   Fungicides                    Private companies    contracts below                1,686    51,727        5,747                                                     1
38.11       Other                        Private companies    US$5 million                        -    23.500      21611                                                     v
SUBTOTAL                                                                             155,846       17,316       90.000      10,000      180l000       20,000
Livlstock
ANIMAL FEED
10.05.90   Maize                         Private companies    (                            215,009   197,108       21,901
23          Oilcakes, other              Private companies    ) International               46,882   118,474       12,164
(competitive bidding
w ETERINAY MEDICINES                                ) or normal procedures
(for contracts below
30          Vaccines                  -DE                '      'USS5 inillion                   .    12.800        1,422
Private companies    I (private)
38.11       Antiparasite treatments   DE.                       ) and US$2 million                     14.800       1,644
Private companies    ( (public)
23.07.99   Vitamin, mineral              Private companies    )                                940    2Z,031        2,448
additives for feed                                                                                                                                            0 C
GENETIC IMPROVEMEN
0%
01 02 10   Purebred Cattle               Private companies                                        -   164,849      18,316
for reproduction                                                                                            ._
SUBTOTAL                                                                             530,062       58,895      106,875      11,875      213,750       23,750
'.'I&IP22 23



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Imports of Agricultural Inputs Eligible for Financing under the Loan (1967/8B and 19sU/S91
* Identifi-                                                                                         -    9 a 6  /a --------   ------- Eligible For Financing  Is-
. cation                                                                                   Annual
iNumber     Description of Goods         Main Importers        Procurement Procedures  Imports    Value    value  /             _    1988                1988  and   1989
(tons0   (OH '000)  (us$'o00)   (OH '0001  (US$'o0e)   (OH '000)   US$'000)
lb                       /b
General
27          PETROLEUM AND                SAMIR /d               Normal Procedures                - 5,409,568    601,063        253,125      28.125       506,2S0     56,250
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS          SNPP /g
AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY
87          Tractors                     Private companies    Normal Procedures              7,491   268,356       29,817
84,82       Agricultural equipment    Private companies    Normal Procedures                 6,580   326.245       36,249
and spare parts
SUBTOTAL                                                                             594,601      66,066      450,000       50,000      900,000     100,000
TOTAL                                                                                                       J             .LLLtfnn    2l,Lng 22Sp
/a Actual imports, quoted in dirhams.
lk  Assuming an exchange rate of US$1   OH 9.
-L Indicative amounts to be Financed under proposed loan; retroactive financing for 1987 imports limited to US$25 million.
{ Societe anonyme marocaine de raffinage
eg Societe nattonale de produits petroliers
3045E/p22-23                                                                                                                                                           e|
OQ



_________  I                                                               MOROCCO
_  _           IUASIA A~f'p. ~n..,  I.                               SECOND AGRICULTURAL SEC
vi  i  c . # . aba,9 I YUNISIA  ' r.......ov..16li.-  .-
Aic I          Itt                                      1                                        2
MOROCCOj           I      JRA
r      AiC.SljIA       I                ARABi''                                                                                   -.
O       r -,I                                IREYP°                 Main Forest Production Areas (Cork, Oak, Cedar, Reforestation)
NJ        mm                    \                     < T I__ 3Multiple Use Forest Area (Accent on conservation)
MAURITANIA          _                                          Maior Alfa Producing Areos
_ OI   J  MAI I  J  NICE   j -j   A                    7       Argan Areas
YZEI            MA-        NG _     EHAD
~~Ni SlidooIN-   %1.                        UDANKw
%gNiA r^! TGIILW l[URKNA.                    L                        Main Roads                                                    -.R M -
.~.. (r&~o~W    Secondory Roads                                       C°osbt -
MADEIRA      .                    Troclds                                            An             5     a-
Roilwoys                                         El Judd.    >toi          j -
-   Rivers                                                            . Kh;r: bqo
Salt Lakes                                                          2us' 
-321                                                                    Elevations above 1,000 meters                Sl4 
International Boundaries                               .,Ao
-  -   International Boundaries (Approximate) J
---Indicates the territory of the
forrmer Sponish Saharo           Essn-   ar
(Western Sahara)
, n j, (lriode .       A PPqO'-1
,           ,            .    -.                                                -- _01,,,             Io
, !,_, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aodt.s  r. II'- 1.,_
.   ;>..~~~~~~~~~~~~,b,   ~  ~     ~ ~ T. r.
,41         -~N
*'            (Spn- - -  - -7 -.                                                             *       j
, -          !*r  .  J.                                                                        i     
:e,~~~~~ A U  R I'- Thfv A  N  I'
16                   JA,,                                                iZ'  .
i~~~~~~~ I
2r                            .  -.        -'        -
- ~                               -    *ZuQJn                                                        !
|    I Deflc; ~ ~     ~       ~              N
___~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~  -0~ 1i    
_r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  Not ?.nm,r                            -J
I 1                      *e um -4 in-Sno                                          1,7P Ot



_____ _____ ____ __ _  _ . .IBRD 19761
MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Melillo
* 12- 0V T>,<Ardeasj     *          *,{,65                        Laoch.,                     N      *;;7
Faresi Pmduction Are(s (Cork Ook Cedar Reforestation)        -                  si4N>      ~lMrncoto
la Use Forest Area (Accent on conservation)                                                                  5YSdbdiA"bm';,
-AUfg Producing AreasSol.IAh.uRbb                                             Da>':s,*                                             Sid
Areas                                            -                                 v'r.. aL
Roads                                                   RABT                                   OEe    t
Jory Roads
.ElJadWda      %                                        ...,.
oiIkes                                            S.d.                                                     .     S A
tons obove 1,000 meters                             ., -
ittional BOufdaries                   *       n,a,                                                                                    7
alonal Boundaries (Approximate)                       d  
es the terrikowy ofthe Etheuiro                 '   Marro
er Spanish Sahara                                                                                           ico
itern Sahara) 
,   4       a -'m ,I                                                 Ben.-Abbie
Iiarbiw~~~~~App r             AYT  A 8°
-   I'zokairn  Akiw/,    I,vremoj un                                                                   
Akk.                                                                      Tr-       Gon bo
-   - ''                        i        'm.  A. -'                                                             -
J t.7)R       
ci.o                                                                    A  L G  E R I A                                    tn So.oA
jN.~ N
.          ---- ------
N..
f   B. Mc.                                                        .
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~~~~~~~~~~~2'
w~ ~~ ~ ~~~ NI N. N' 
M  A  L I 
Zoue,e ratN
F 0. 'ci.                                                      jIt EEA
M  RN             200      3C0
-; M    A         U     R    i  T    A     N     I    A        j*o
_ 2'                          I         *                                                                                       1986
JULY 1986



MOROCCO
AT!An:i(    (rk                UNISiA WI)IMIrRANIAN rA                     SECOND  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  A
OlCEArN   I oRntV'",           \              tARAB                                      TANGER         .,
.....         Al C.1-RnA    t        LIBYA    IREP Of                             ;           .              ME DIT.
EGYPI
-   r    \         ff          L  _                                        {I -II  t   EUAN
MALJRIIANIA      "IT                                                         Laroche                            At H0CE'N  V
NKIt     CHAI) j SUDAN                                Lorach,
SHEWGA(                 2           /t  --4-  ICAO
asuuIA.-'~   FASLN..,. 1 VI                                          RV
it IA_r 8 frA5Liu 1 -=2                                      LOUKKOS.  
ORM          VA- i                ,tJgN> 
GH ARARBm      mA
TA
A r 1 A N T I C                                             RABAT
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B FQ A                                i\§2 A/uw >                            0
DOUKKALA~~~~ASBLNC
O  C  f- A  ps      CA5A       X              a         y   Xoibo  FdI  zJ  (           M
EL-JADIDA  S-tilerreshffl   {   \      )     {'        \ _/   \EPCIDA
ORMMA            <      ~~~~~~~SETTAl Oe              en f g/%
>\-y/ Zftl;)S /        KHOURIG< A                        /\_               -
32 SAFI                                               B +M-M blETAF
32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2   n     4SMyA jz S                     /             /~~~ ~~~~~~~~~/ERRCHD
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
wvS-MA-  
0.1~~~~p
LARGE SC
ORMVA LIMITS (OFFICE REGIONAL Of MISE EN VALEURAGRICOLE]
REGIONAL OFFICE FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
/LARGt SCALE IRRIGATIQN AREAS:
>--     EXISTING IRRIGATED AREAS
FUTURE IRRIGATED AREAS
;  j  I  DAMS TO BE CONSTRUCrED
TAN-TAN                                                               I     EXISTING DAMS
Tn todoyc
RIVE RS
_r-- .- b~ S,*-0-_~_*_ -4.i'_ MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS
2R   s... aQ _n                                *           a" 
~- l _8o4



IBRD 19762
MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TANGER
MED17ERRANFAN  SEA
T '   rrJA^N              .                        ORMVA
LOU S            \           AL HOCEIM                        MOULOUYA
Ber,ech,d  (   '\Laachi
4X Z .q(OU -_torache2/;l}N<   \iCHAOUt N
= .   LOU KKOS   - - -                        <                     t    x .    ro o,9I
GHAARZA _
CASLABLANCAARGE SCALE IRRI|A=ION AREAS
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
I' _t----  RAI*WAYS^tC                                      -         i     
-~~  ~~                                                                              __/Zm   ,     =>W
4~~~~/                                               8MVAI ROAD
D , . v -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~ERR^CIA 
\  &SM7A) }-F      //                    TAKILAFILLETJ      X
REGION   OFC FOR A-RIULTRL DE-;OMA     L   G    E    R    I  A
A A                           AR EA                         _-
o    SELECTED TOW.   N  C \KlOMETERS
/        //  ( ~~~~~OUARZA%T                             0  
---r g -- \4 ~MOROCCO
EITING IRRI\                                   E AREAS             LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION AREAS
y                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   RAIIWAYS
,t                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROAD$
-               ~~~~~~ORM-A LIMITS (OFFICE REGIONAt DE MISE EN VALEURAGRICOLE)   AIRPORTS
_                 ~~~~~~~REGIONAL OFFICE FOR AGRICULTURAL 3FVELOPMENT         .L    OT
/      L/0RGE_CALE_R_GAT ON ARtAS~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
/               - I    ~~~~~~~EXISTING IRRIGATED AREAS                                  RVNECPTL
FUTURE IRRIGATED AREAS                                   *    NATiONAL CAPITAL
*  DAMS TO BE CONStRUJCTED                             ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I  EXISTING DAMS                                       --   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (APPROXIMAATEI
RIVERS                                                         INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF THE FORMER
-n  MEAN ANNUAL RAINFAML IN MILLIMETERS                            SPANISH SAHARA (WESTERN SAHARAl        28B
8                                                                        4e
JULY 1986



,'MOROCCg.J                                                                    ~~~~SECOND ft
ATFANriCCEAN .                                                                                                                  SECOND  F
ALGERIA                 LIBYA                                       12*
MAURITANIA
MALI                NIGER
'    ~- -J  .   . '                  * CHAD
SENEGAL,r
MAJOR RAINFED AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT ZONES
PRINCIPALES REGIONS DE CULTURE PLUVIALE
AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFAlt Imm)
PRTCIPITATIONS MOVYNNfS ANNUEIf#IS !n,I
L  lion
aUO
.400                                             ...
ATLANTIC   OCEAN
20(1
-32'
MAJOR RAINFFD AGCICUI TURAL DtVELOPMI Nl ZONES
PMrtI, IPt.;tt (fliOHFt Dl (LUlEFtRL PLUViAl:
. flST POT[NIIAL
FAVORABLE
INTERMEDIATE POlENrIAl
INTERMEDIAIR:
tIMItE L POTENTIAL  WESI
DLFAVORABIE  OCCIDFNTALF
LIMITED POTENTIAL - EAST
OV    f FAVORABLE - ORIENTAtE                                                                                                  I
MOUNlAIN (VARIABLE POTENTIALI                                                                                               Aged.
MOUNJAGNFS                                                .
SAHARIAN lFITREMELY LIMItED POTENTIAII
SAHARI&NNE
NATIONAL CAPITAL
(APITAIl DEfAT
*   PROVINCE CAPITALS*                                          ..                                                           i
CHEF LIEUX DES PROVINCfS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
tIATES DES PROVINCFS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONTIERES D ETAT
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (APPROXIMATE)                      ..   -
FRONTIERES OETAT rAPPROXIMA IVE)                        :  - ._
INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF THE FORMER                                                                    -
SPANISH SAHARA [WESTERN SAHARA)
-        NDIOE LE EERRITOIRE DF L AN'CEN                      .9
SAHARA ESPAGNOC (SAHARA OCCIDENTAL)
*NOrE. PROVINCE NAMFS ARE IDFNTICAt
TO PROVINCE CAPITAL NAMES
2B:



MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LC
SECOND PRET D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRJC0
- /    ~~~ATLANTIC  OCEAN                   ....
.i0.5



IBRD 19763
MOROCCO
ruD AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
'D PRET D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE
::~~~~~~~                                                                            I
:                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
~~~~~~~~~~I.
5o5                                                                                                                        Mpg  3?IO   D   0
*f _____c_wvrnlmh  _ r_.
we ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~u
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CaES   20                                                               25        0
; S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                  l£IC e
RAB ~ ~ ~ ~~~0                     010                        5            0
Mokna~~~~~~~~~~I
C ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~       s.~.*..L              b8o
sonat~~~-                                     e        -n --m
-n . in, ~m$.. -0.~r    Cn   we.,
- -  -  *k'.A 1  -   ~~~~  .er0~flI   0  ~32S
El 4K



-     = - yOROCCQ;                                          di   .                                                                   SECONDtt
v,                                        effim A.'A
3rLuNt O-N                             V TJ . 0/s.'t98+V  ld  ;                                       _                SECON
N- -t.         ALGERIA                    LIBYA                                           1?
.MAURITANIA                         A T-
;            \    ~~~~~MAll I             NIGER          !
SENEGAL                      .
LAND CAPABILITIES                                                                                                                      t
VOCATION DES SOLS                                                                                                                       f
S%l vC) P'ASIOi'AI
YlN
*7'1 VI) I'^S I CiRAI I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
l pWltNl IPAI S 11 Pl''ll'
MAUR,,is IT IA MG1( RtlRAI          7 /tiINIAl
&s AuRn U111 fiRiI IN Sit A IDRII POUNIINAldif
_ INIIRMdI IAII ACRIl UITURAl POIlNIlAt
_  A(,RICUtil`JR/ IN 5f1- A POTI-NNAIITF MOrrFNNr OU fArdLtlArA                                           fI                 C    A 
LAND CAPABILITIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATANIC                                                          OCA
VOIRRICA I TI I I  OS IN VADI  S O
-      NA,URAPOLCtFURt IRRIG;E i DAhtS 115 ONES OF VAILFFS
- - Hli vP 1A1ECIAI Di Pi NDANI ON AVAILABli 11Y Of WATER
.it-)Rrt% P()tiN1lAII?FS SOUJS RISIRVW DUNU lMP>ORIANIF
DSISPVN8S1ITI IN tAIJ
* - POOP F 11F NII i TEIAI
r-_  _ri MII IIU NAY l11 tJI DFrA VlORAfi I
-320                                                                      L
MA% 1Y RAlNfr)tt A(;Rl II  MPltA4 D)fVIIOPMINI iOfNIS
PMiN( t P IFS If N% Of (0l711;F f9llV AI;
iff[ HplPull tUBAl   I
:N;,lkMnllAl                                                                                                                     . T^A
HIGIYMtDIA(IRI    S INIIAI         IEE
IRI I A VI RA1l1  ' (I N                                                                                                             1ALN IA
FIM0E  P1'1TINIIAI  I A l R       NP        A
D ESOIIAIRAHTI  DINNA i/
A0ltlNIAIN rVARIAPII1 1`,ll NllAI!                                                                                                   t
'M POfI IN AC;NII S
,,    A11AIAN iXlXRiA4lt, IIIII P1011 OINTIAI                                                                                             i
SAHA Mll NAL
D    NAltONAI N APIIAI      E
( APITAI, D rTA I 
l'LIF IIoeiAJ ft Ill 11 N ISf    _II' EE IIVA
E PROVINM APIPOlE NIA
'("If I orUt 9DES P770VIN( fS 5 
PR1VIN    POEINDAWIFS.
IIMIIES D15 PROVPNCFS_
INMI IIENATIONIAI OUNDARit,'
FR ItAJ 'lf i R1 S  P i I A       A
INI[RNATIONAt BOtJNDARY (APPROXIhAATE)                                                                                 >#--
SRHANIINFNE1)f A
RNAlVOIFSDIIAI (APFOIIAArIF)1-
INDICATIS tHE ItRAl10RY oF tHE IORM                                                                                             *
SPANISH SAHARA IWESTI RN SAHARAf r,;<>l_t\<,*R
--INDIQUF If TFRRITOIRF DE t AiNCIfN                                                                                   c1 X           ,   _
SAFtAirA FSPAC.NOt (5At1ARA OCClOFNTAI.J _ _ =
*N0ot PP OvONCF NACEFS AP InANTICALL
PO PROVINCN CAPIF NAMFS



MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SECOND PRET D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE
12° 0r                                             -   -   -  ,   :
~~ .,~~~~~  Al -Moaa'.
saw 
C-sablac
ATLANTIC.   OCEDAN                       I  - 
-NIA~ ~ - 



IBRD 19795
MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PRET D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR AGRICOLE
-.                                                                                    A
32?
/.                  ..                            --S           /t o  50            210     3  ao
~~~~~-    *L'          _ -                      1    -_c__a_ _ _
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~10vk                                       ~
-sfEd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
AtUGUST 1Q"^
4t.  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



