                                          Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                     ReportNo: 33203-IND




                              PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                        PROPOSEDMULTIDONOR TRUST FUNDFOR
                           ACEH AND NORTH SUMATRA GRANT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$64.7MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                             FORA

                             COMMUNITY RECOVERY THROUGH
                         THE KECAMATANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                         August 22,2005




Environmentand SocialDevelopmentUnit
EastAsia and PacificRegion




This document hasa restricteddistributionand maybeusedby recipients only inthe performanceof
their officialduties. Itscontentsmay not otherwisebedisclosedwithoutWorldBankauthorization.

                                CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                           (ExchangeRateEffectiveMay25,2005)
                               Currency Unit = Rupiah
                                   Rp. 1,000 = US$O.lOS
                                        US$1 = Rp.9,470

                                        FISCALYEAR
                                   January 1   - December31

                           ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
APBD      DistrictDevelopment Budget
APBN      NationalDevelopment Budget
Bappeda   ProvincialandDistrict DevelopmentBoards
Bappenas  MinistryofPlanning
BPKP      National Development Audit Agency
BPS       National Statistics Bureau
Bupati    District Head
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Review
DAU       General Block Grant to Districts
DPRD      Provincial and District Parliaments
FAD       Inter-village forums
Go1       Government of Indonesia
Kabupaten District
KDP       Kecamatan DevelopmentProject
Kecamatan Sub-District
KPKN      Provincial Office of the National Treasury
M&E       Monitoringand Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MOHA      MinistryofHomeAffairs
NGO       Non-Government Organization
PAD       Project Appraisal Documents
PjOK      Local Project Manager
PMD       Village DevelopmentAgency (Ministryo f Home Affairs)
P M U     Project Management Unit
Susenas   National Expenditure Survey
UPK       Sub-districtFinancialManagement Unit
UPP       UrbanPoverty Project/
VIP       Village InfrastructureProject
WSSLIC    Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project


                               Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                            Country Director:      Andrew D.Steer
             Sector Director/Sector Manager:       Maria Teresa Serra/Cyprian Fisiy
         Task Team LeadedCo-TeamLeader:             Scott E. Guggenheim

                                                           FOROF'F'ICLALUSEONLY


                                           INDONESIA
                         COMMUNITY RECOVERY THROUGH THE
                          KECAMATANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
                              EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                                             EASES


 Date: August 22,2005
 Country Director: Andrew D. Steer               TeamLeader : Scott E.Guggenheim
 Sector Director/Sector Manager: MariaTeresa     Sector: Social Services
 SerraKyprian Fisiy                              Themes: Social Analysis; Social Development
 Project ID: PO97535                             Environment Screening Category: Partial
 Lending Instrument:Emergency Recovery Loan      Assessment
                                                 Safeguard Screening Category: LimitedImpact




 GovernmentContribution:N/A
                                      FinancingPlan(US%m)
          Source                  Local                  Foreign                   Total
 Borrower
 MDTFANS                           64.70                   0.0                     64.70
 Total                             64.60                   0.0                     64.70




 Projectimplementationperiod: Start July 1,2005 End: June 30,2008
 Exnectedclosing date: December 31. 2008




This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be-usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwisedisclosed
without World Bank authorization.

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects? [ ]Yes [XINo
Does the project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?                      [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved byBankmanagement?                                      [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                    [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?      [XIYes [ ] No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?   [XIYes [ ] No
Refi PAD
Project development objective Re$ PAD: The purpose of this grant i s to support community recovery in
the areas of Aceh andNorth Sumatra that were affected by the December 26,2005 earthquake and
tsunami. All affected subdistricts and villages will be covered by the grant program. The grant supports
(i) earmarked block grants to communities; (ii) grants for developingvillage levelrecoveryplans;
                                                 block
(iii)recovery and capacity development for local government; (iv) technical and social facilitator
services; and (v) monitoring and evaluation. To acceleraterecovery, the procedures for the pre-existing
Kecamatan Development Projectwere revisedto allow for more rapid disbursementand adjustment to
post-disaster conditions.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD:
The proposedUSD64.7 millionMDTFANS-financedKDPproject will be 100percent grant financing,
with large amounts of up-front fundingover an eighteen month implementationperiodduring2005/ 2006
and will be executedthrough the Ministryof Home Affairs. The Projectwill consist of the following
components and activities:
     0  Block grants to tsunami affected kecamatans [(79%) $49.9 million]
     0  Planning grants to tsunami affected kecamatans [(3%) $2.1 million]
     0  Social and technical facilitators [(13%) $8.5 million]
     0  capacity programs for village and kecamatan management units [(4%) $3.4 million]
     0  monitoring and evaluation [(1%) $0.8 million]

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD:
     0  GO1issuingthe revisedbudget allocations for eachparticipating sub-district;
     0  MOHA completes staffing for the provincial anddistrict management teams;
     0  MOHAauthorizes decentralizedmanagement for the reconstructionprogram.




                                                      iv

                                                  INDONESIA
                          COMMUNITY RECOVERY THROUGH THE
                            KECAMATAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                  CONTENTS

Executive Summary.. ............................... ... ...,.............,,..........      .. .............    vi

Technical Report.. ....................   .. ..... ...........,.......... .... ...,.............,,........... 1

   1.  Background and Rationale .......,.........,,,......,............,..,,....,.,..........,,,,,........ 1
   2. Detailed Project Description., ..,.... ... ...............,.......
                                                     ,                        ,    ... ....................,... 2
   3. Project Costs.... . ..       .   ... ............................. ... .... .......................... 4
   4. Relationship/Coordinationwith other RehabilitatiodReconstruction Activities.. ............ 4

   5. Implementation .......................................................................................    5

   6. Social Issues.. ..... .... .....   ........ ............................. . ...     . .................. 7
   7. Procurement Arrangements. .. ..........,...............,.... . .., ...... ...........,.,.......... 8
   8. Financial Management, Audit and Disbursement Arrangements, ..,...,...,....,..,........12

   9. Safeguard Policies. .............. . . ...... .........................,......... ... .,.
                       . .
                                                                                                    ,  . ..... 19
   10. Complaints HandlingandAnti-Corruption Strategy.. ......... .... .                .. ...... .............24
   11. Results Summary.. .. .. ...      ,. ........ ........,.........,............... .   ,, ,,,     ........ 30



   Annexes
   Annex 1               KDPAceh Implementation Schedule
   Annex 2               Management Organizationof KDP
   Annex 3               KDP PlanningCycle
   Annex 4               KDPFundsFlows System
   Annex 5               Grievance ResolutionMechamism


                                       EXECUTIVESUMMARY

Background and Rationale. The earthquakes and tsunamis which struck Indonesia and several other
countries inthe Indian Ocean region on December 26, 2004, resulted inone of the worst natural disasters
in recorded human history. Indonesia bore the brunt of the disaster. In Aceh and North Sumatra, the
disaster left more than 230,000 people dead or missing, caused an additional 700,000 homeless, washed
away hundreds of communities, collapsed many local governments, and devastated normal social,
economic, and political life inthe affected areas. While the relief effort has prevented large-scale disaster
and in many areas NGOs have started reconstruction programs, a key challenge for the reconstruction
program i s to identify mechanisms that could reach large numbers o f affected villages quickly inways that
provide a maximum amount of resources directly to villagers and which maintain effective corruption
mitigation measures.

The ongoing KecamatanDevelopment Program (KDP)' is a nationwide community development project
implementedby the Ministry of Home Affairs. Currently covering nearly 30,000 village across Indonesia,
KDP has operated in Aceh without interruption since 1999. KDP strengthens the ability of communities
across Indonesia to plan and manage local development. By doing so, not only do communities produce
high-quality, economically useful social and infrastructure investments, but district level agencies can
concentrate their resources on technically more complex and higher-value programming. Equally
important for a transitional country such as Indonesia is that participatory development programs, such as
KDP, provide local governments with concrete examples of alternative ways to manage decentralization.
Prior to the earthquakes and tsunamis, the KDP was already operating in approximately 45% o f the
kecamatans in Aceh that were affected by the tsunamis. The Aceh damage assessment prepared by
Bappenas, and the reconstruction blueprint, both designated the proposed project to be one o f the key
recovery vehicles. The government has requestedthat KDP scale-up to support the reconstruction o f Aceh
and North Sumatra. The MDTFANS-financed KDP has the primary objective o f providing block grant
funding to support reconstructionina large number o f villages affectedby the disaster. It will provide an
effective, large-scale way to help Acehenese and Nias communitiesplan and manage their reconstruction.

The Project. The proposed USD64.7 million MDTFANS-financed KDP project will be 100 percent grant
financing, with large amounts o f up-front funding over an eighteen month implementation period during
2005/ 2006 and will be executed through the Ministry o f Home Affairs. The Project will consist o f the
following components and activities:

1.     block grants to tsunami affected kecamatans - These consist of uneannarked block grants that
       are transferred directly to communities for investing in village development. The block grants
       support a participatory planningprocess that includes special measures to involve women and the
       poor. Project menus are open - with the exception of a short negative list that bans civil servant
       salary payments, weapons, and environmentally destructive activities, villagers can invest the
       money across the full gamut o f localpriorities.
2.     planning grants to tsunami affected kecamatans - These are small, pre-investment grants
       transferredto communitiesto cover the costs o f technical and social facilitation;
3.     the provision of social and technical facilitators - The functions of KDP's facilitators are to (i)
       promote district and subdistrict coordination across donors, NGOs, and government programs; (ii)
       support participatory planning and management procedures; (iii)provide technical support to
       villagers, including guidance in earthquake resistant infrastructure design and how to assess and
       repair damagedvillage infrastructure; and (iv) monitor project quality and prevent corruption


'Kecamatan   means subdistrict inIndonesian.


                                                     vi

4.     capacitybuilding programsfor village and kecamatanmanagementunits-Programs will train
       villagers and local governments ina range o f topics tied to improved governance, participation, and
       local developmentplanning ;and
5,     monitoring and evaluation- which includes both quantitative and qualitative impact evaluations,
       participatory monitoring methods, corruption assessments, and independent monitoring by
       Acehnese NGOs.

Coordination. The newly established Baden Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (BRR) for NAD-Nias will
work with M O H A and the provisional and kabupaten working groups in coordinating rehabilitation and
reconstructioninAceh andNorth Sumatra. InternationalNGOS are also part of this, and there i s a growing
consensus that a consolidated village planning process, supported by various donors and MDTFANS will
be the most efficient way to work at the village level. The three other project concepts endorsed by the
MDTFANS Steering Committee being the Urban Poverty Program (UPP), the Reconstruction of Aceh
Land Administration System (WAS) Project, and the Housing and Settlement Program will all work
with, and buildon, the platform of community facilitators and committees either already inplace or being
expanded underthe KDP project.

Support by other donors.Because it provides an efficient, locally popular delivery system, KDP i s also
beingsupported by several other donors. The Netherlands currently provides approximately $40 millionin
grant support to the national KDPprogram, and this support has allowed KDP to respond quickly to crises
such as the Bali bombing and the tsunami. In Aceh, DFID i s providing an additional $4 million to help
KDP support IDP return and reintegration. AusAid i s contributing $2.3 million so that the MDTFANS
grant can be complemented by a program to rebuild village meeting halls. CIDA i s adding $5 million to
support local investments and KDP's gender programs. NZ Aid will provide TA to train KDP facilitators
in earthquake resistant technical designs. Although not counted here, the Japanese Social Development
Fundalso provides about $3.0 milliondollarsto support KDP linkedprograms for widows and internally-
displaced people. Total parallel financing by other donors for the Aceh program totals approximately
$12.0 million

Partnerships- KDP cooperates with a large number of national and international civil society and UN
organizations. KDP is part of the Aceh community development working group hosted by PMD that meets
bi-weekly inBanda Aceh and includes some 20 NGOs and bilateral agencies. CARE, EO, IOM, UNDP,
WFP, World Vision, and UN-Habitat already support varying degrees of cooperation with KDP, including
collaboration on damage assessments, community consultations, participatory planning and training.
Under the project, these partnerships will be expanded. An additional 36 "information facilitators" will be
hiredby KDP to support subdistrict level coordination groups managedjointly by local government and
NGOs.

Transparency and Accountability. Projects in Indonesia operate in a high-risk environment when it
comes to issues of leakage and corruption. The anti-corruption strategy for the highly dispersed
community driven KDPproject addresses the fact that it i s a different institutional environment to standard
projects. Itmakes greater use of social controls and transparency thus ensuringhigher levels o f confidence
than traditional project designs operating in the same villages. Its three main themes are: (i) eliminating
complexity; (ii)focusing on every financial transaction; (iii)     responding quickly to complaints. The
strategy and action plans have been in place since the first KDP project, but have been updated based on
anti-corruption diagnostics and evolving decentralization.

Risks.      The KDP in Aceh and North Sumatra is expected to face three major risks. The high risk
fiduciary environment in Indonesia i s expected to be exacerbated inAceh where KDP has faced problems
of illegal levies by boththe rebel movement (GAM), and fkom the army. A second risk i s that because the
KDP platform exists in many areas, other programs might overload the technical teams with additional


                                                    vii

tasks and responsibilities. Finally, poor coordination between KDP and other private and public
reconstruction programs might lead to wastage and confusion. There i s a well- developed risk mitigation
program that addresses each of these risks. The project's anti-corruption action plan has generally been
effective and the other risks are to a large extent being mitigated through the increasingly effective local
level coordination networks. The 36 information facilitators that will be h d e d through this grant are an
essential part of malungthose networks even more effective.

Effectiveness Conditions. The following are the conditions of effectiveness for the grant:

    0   GO1issuingtherevisedbudget allocations for eachparticipating sub-district;
    0   MOHA completes staffing for the provincial and district managementteams;
    0   MOHA authorizes decentralized managementfor the reconstruction program.




                                                      ...
                                                     Vlll


                                       TECHNICAL REPORT

                        PART 1-BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE


Community-based recovery planning has been at the core of the Acemias reconstruction planning
process virtually since the disaster struck on December 26, 2004. It i s not difficult to understand why.
Global as well as Indonesian experience show that community-based recovery strategies are under
most circumstances quicker, involve more affected people in their own recovery, and are more likely
to leadto sustainable solutions than top-down strategies can achieve.

For Aceh and North Sumatra, community-based recovery programs are part of a phased strategy that
builds on the presence of successful community projects that can jumpstart the recovery but then
moves into larger, more technical programs such as larger infrastructure rehabilitation, support to
health and education systems, and the reconstruction of district government line agencies. Because
Indonesia has a history of support for successful community even before the crisis, using a
community-based approach also provides the foundation for a sustainable system over the long term,
after recovery i s complete andnormal development can take over.

The project being proposed for MDTFANS funding builds on the government's pre-existing
Kecamatan Development Project (KDP).

Prior to the earthquakes and tsunamis that struck Indonesia (and several other countries in the Indian
Ocean) on December 26, 2004, KDP was already operating in approximately 45% of the kecamatans
inAceh that were affected by the tsunamis. InJanuary 2005, the Governor of Aceh and the head of
Satkorlak issued a letter instructingKDP to become one of the focal points for community recovery.
By early March, some 250 kecamatan facilitators hadbeen trained and deployed. The government has
requested that MDTF support the government's ongoing scale-up of KDP to support the
reconstructionof Aceh andNorth Sumatra.

The proposed MDTFANS contribution to the KDP program in Aceh and North Sumatra will be
valuable ina number o f keyareas. Preparation of the proposed MDTFproject has involved substantial
modifications to the core KDP approach to better reflect boththe priorities of Aceh reconstructionand
the numerous opportunities provided by the presence of other donors, NGOs, and technical specialists.
First, the MDTF and BRR will provide oversight and pressure on what all stakeholders (even
government) agree is an extraordinarily poor fiduciary environment. MDTF participation therefore
contributes greatly to the effectiveness by which aid i s used. MDTF supervision missionswill provide
additional oversight and support for improved financial and program management. KDP will also be
monitoredby BRR's financial trackmg system.

Second, KDP i s significantly revamping its operational manual and procedures to respond to the
disaster and recovery. Particularly useful innovations that will be introduced through the project
include:
        Technical manuals and training that guide communities in earthquake resistant construction
        and inlocal assessment and repair of damaged infrastructure;
    9   Information facilitators ineach district government whose job i s to disseminate reconstruction
        policies and elicit policy questions from sub district multistakeholder workmg groups that will
        be formed ineach sub district;
    -   Cooperation with Muhammidiyah on a substantial program of community-based trauma
        healing;
        IDPreintegrationmonitoring

Third, Indonesian agencies normally do not carry out very rigorous monitoring and evaluation
programs. Constantly evolving projects such as KDP require much closer monitoring and evaluation
because of their wide geographical coverage, diverse scope, and the need to have real-time
information on progress. The project also values the importance of learning what works and what
doesn't inorder to make procedural and policy improvements. MDTF,will help GO1use quantitative
and qualitative measurementsto improve the program's design. Such studies are appreciated and used
when they are done, but they will not be done without MDTFinvolvement.

Fourth dialogue with the MDTF and its member agencies brings global experience to bear that would
not be otherwise available.      Specific examples include the new district and sub district     multi-
stakeholders' forum, which developed from dialogue with UNDP, Habitat, and other agencies that
have supported community based reconstruction programs in Afghanistan, Cambodia, and Rwanda;
and the improved approach to facilitator training and management, which has come from recent
discussions withOxfam, CARE,World Vision, and Save the ChildrenUK.


                         PARTI1-DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION

Objectives. At therequest ofthe Government, the KDP is designatedto be one ofthe keyvehicles for
the recovery of Aceh andNorth Sumatra. The MDTFANS-financed KDP has the primary objective of
providing block grant fundingto support reconstructionin a large number of villages affected by the
disaster. It will provide an effective, large-scale way to help Acehenese and Nias communities plan
and manage their reconstruction. The project will (i)    initially support quick injections of cash into
communities, with a special focus on the poorest and most vulnerable groups; (ii)     rebuildproductive
infrastructure and social services; and (iii)support bottom-up planning and management. KDP's
bottom-up planning system will also allow for effective sub district level coordination and information
sharing at the sub district level.

The KDP also has higher overall development objectives of reducing poverty and improving local-
level governance in the affected areas. Development objectives for the MDTFANS-financed KDP
include:(i)  institutionalizingparticipatory processes inlocal government; (ii) providingcost-effective,
basic social and economic infrastructure; and (iii)strengthening the capacity of the micro-finance
institutions to manage and monitor funds sustainably.

Components. The proposed US$64.7 millionMDTFANS-financed KDP project will be 100percent
grant financing with large amounts o f up-front fundingover an eighteen month implementation period
during200Y 2006. The Project will consist ofthe followingcomponents andactivities:

    (i)      blockgrants to tsunamiaffected kecamatans [(79%) $49.9 million]-These consist of
             unearmarked block grants that are transferred directly to communities for investing in
             village development. Planning begins in the hamlets and villages but allocations take
             place in kecamatans, where the project maintains a financial management unit to keep
             records and to provide oversight. With the exception of a small negative list that prohibits
             items such as weapons, civil servant salaries, and environmentally destructive activities,
             menus are open. The majority of investments inthe KDP program throughout Indonesia to
             date typically go for basic economic infrastructure, particularly farm-to-market roads,
             water supply, and irrigation, butthere are also significant investments ineducation.

             A number o f special provisions to the basic KDP framework have been introduced to
              support the Aceh and North Sumatra reconstruction work. First, grant sizes for the
             affected areas are adjusted to match estimated damage impacts. Kecamatans in the
             tsunami zone will receive cycles of 4, 3, 2, and 1billion rupiah over the eighteen month


                                                    2

           reconstructionperiod (1 billion i s the standard, sustainable allocation for KDP) based on
            the kecamatan damage impact scale developed by KDP during its field survey.          Second,
            during the emergency phase, a maximum of 25% of the grant can be used as a "social
            fund" whose purposes are to provide micro-grants to highly vulnerable groups, and to
           recapitalizemicro-enterprises destroyedby the tsunami; in subsequent cycles, a maximum
            o f 20% can go to women's revolving funds. Third, the planning cycle has been
            compressed into emergency, short term reconstruction, and sustainable planning cycles.
            The emergency cycle is for immediate use. During the emergency cycle, villages make
            their own individual assessments and no kecamatan decision meetings are required.
            Subsequent cycles do require more planning and technical review, though they are still
            highly compressed, since they should start leading communities back to more normal
            recovery.


            planning grants to tsunami affected kecamatans [(3%) $2.1 million] - These are
            small, pre-investment grants transferred to communities to cover the costs of technical and
            social facilitation by candidates (one man and one woman) proposed by the village and
            trained by the project; socialization meetings; dissemination materials, and, where
           justified, small travel grants so that poor villagers can attend planningmeetings.

            social and technical facilitators [(13%) $8.5 million] - Technical support for KDP
            comes from a tiered program of consultant facilitators, all of whom are Acehnese. A
            regional management unit in the province includes operations support, training, and a
            monitoring/complaints management unit. Each district includes a technical and social
            facilitator, and for Aceh, a small dissemination unit that supports government-NGO
            partnerships. Each kecamatan also has a technical and social facilitator whose job i s to
            train and supervise village facilitators, provide technical support and advice for larger
            infrastructure proposals, and ensure that records are properly managed. Finally, this
            component also includes funding to support approximately 30 "information facilitators"
            who will be attached to the KDP district coordination team. Their job i s to visit each sub
            district on a fixed schedule, during which they will disseminate information about
            government policies and reconstruction programs, and gather queries from the field for
            discussion with district government.

            capacity programs for village and kecamatan management units [(4%) $3.4 million]
            - This activity covers training for kecamatan and village governance units. Typical
            programs include village cross-audits, village visioning exercises, training in book-
            keeping, procurement, and technical assessments, and basic social mapping exercises.
            However, in the Aceh context, these programs can be expanded to take advantage of the
            skills available from highquality NGOs experienced incommunity development training.

            monitoring and evaluation [(1%) $0.8 million] -Covers the costs ofNGO, university
            student, andor journalist monitoring; commissioned baseline and impact surveys, and
            qualitative case studies.

Readiness Status. KDP was already fully operational across Aceh and North Sumatra before the
tsunami, so it i s not surprising that preparation for using the grant i s well advanced. Approximately
350 facilitators were already in place. The network i s currently being expanded through the
recruitment of an additional 300 facilitators. This number i s sufficient to cover the entire area affected
by the disaster. Baseline damage and needs assessments have already been completed for all villages
that were part of KDP in Aceh before the tsunami. The special operational manual and project
implementation plan were issued in May, 2005. The improved management plan and terms o f
reference for all new positions have already been prepared; advertisements for new positions have


                                                    3

already been issued and final shortlists completed. Draft budgetswere also appraised and only require
confirmation. Local socialization seminars have already been completed with all local governments.
Documents prepared for either the wider KDP3 project or specifically for Aceh and North Sumatra
recovery that were reviewed by the MDTF appraisal and which are part of the MDTFANS-funded
KDPappraisal package include:
    a) Project operational manual
    b) Project ImplementationFrameworkand timeline
    c) Draft Project budgets
    d) Project anti-corruption actionplan
    e)  Technical manuals
    f ) Facilitator training program

In brief, the delivery mechanisms and project structure are either already in place or are well
advanced.

                                      PART111 PROJECTCOSTS
                                                -
Total estimated costs for the eighteen month program are approximately $113.65 million. The budget
also assumes that the majority of shelter programs will be funded by NGOs and other specialist
agencies. The contribution sought from MDTFANSi s $64.7 million with additional funding provided
from the following sources:

                      (i)US$20millionalreadycommittedby/GO&
                     (ii) millionfromDFID
                          US$4
                     (iii)US$5 million from Canada
                      (iv)US2.3 millionfrom AusAid



                                                       Indicative              MDTFANS-       Yo of
                            Component                    costs       Yo of      financing  MDTFANS-
                                                       (US%M)/a      Total       (US$M)     financing
     1.    Block Grantsto Tsunami Affected                 89.16       78.6
           Kecamatans                                                                49.9          79
    2.     Planning Grants to Tsunami affected              3.42          3
           Kecamatans                                                                 2.1           3
    3.      Social and Technical Facilitators              14.87        13            8.5          13
    4.      Capacity programs for village and                4.6          4
           kecamatan management units                                                 3.4           4
    5.     M&Eand Studies                                    1.6        1.4           0.8           1

                                  Total Project Costs I  113.65    I    100   1      64.7 I      100
                            Total Financing Required  I  113.65    I
    la Indicative Costs include Government and other donor contributions


       PARTI V-RELATIONSHIP/ COORDINATIONWITH OTHER REHABILITATION/
                                    RECONSTRUCTIONACTIVITIES

    Global experience and experience elsewhere in Indonesia shows that multi-sectoral village
    development programs can deal with local level coordination challenges effectively provided that
    they have sufficient information about sectoral investment plans. The reason i s that villages can
    adjust their own preferences to take into account fundingsources fi-om elsewhere.



                                                     4

    To promote this type of demand-driven coordination, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA), as
    Executing agency, has established provincial and kabupaten working groups whose job i s to
    provide a forum for sharing information about local recovery plans. The newly established Baden
    Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (BRR) for NAD-Nias will also work with MOHA and the
    provisional and kabupaten workmg groups in coordinating rehabilitation and reconstruction in
    Aceh and North Sumatra. InternationalNGOS such as Oxfam, Care, World Vision, PCI are also
    part of these mechanisms, and there i s a growing consensus that a consolidated village planning
    process, supported by various donors and MDTFANS will be the most efficient way to work at
    village level.

    The MDTFANSgrant-financed KDP, which focuses on rural communities, i s an extension of the
    wider KDP3 and, as such, already coordinates with the other large government recovery programs
    such as the World-Bank assisted Community Recovery through Urban Poverty Program (UPP)',
    which focuses on urban communities, and also water supply projects funded by the Asian
    Development Bank. In addition to the MDTFANS assisted KDP and UPP projects, the
    Reconstruction of Aceh Land Administration System (RALAS) Project and the Community
    DrivenHousing and Settlement Program, concept proposals for whichhave also been endorsedby
    the MDTFANS Steering Committee, will both work with, and build on, the platform of
    community facilitators and committees either already inplace or being expanded under the KDP
    project. By using the existing or expanding pool of KDP (and UPP) facilitators, (i.e. pooling
    resources) with the possibility o f additional facilitators in land management or housing being
    provided by the W A S or housing Projects respectively, good coordination and harmonization
    between all these projects will be ensured.


                                    PARTV IMPLEMENTATION
                                             -

    Institutionaland implementationarrangements. The MDTFANSgrant-financed KDP, like the
    wider KDP3, will be executed through the Ministry of Home Affairs. The core executing team i s
    guided through a coordinating group at each level of government that includes the finance
    department, the development planning board, and the relevant line agencies such as health,
    education, andpublic works.

    Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results. KDP has a robust monitoring program that
    includes both quantitative and qualitative evaluations. The internal monitoring system includes:

          A computerized Management Information System (MIS). The KDP projects maintain a
          master database that records progress on planning and works, levels and types of
          participation, complaints and their resolution, and end result evaluations. MIS data are
          aggregated and used in each of the regional management units, with a master system
          maintainedbythe national oversight team.
          Grievance and complaints resolution mechanism - communities can direct their questions
          or complaints to KDP facilitators, government staff, NGOs, or send inquiries directly to a
          PO Box. KDP maintains a complaints handling unit at national and provincial levels to
          record and follow up on inquiries and complaints.
          Financial management oversight - the national KDP team includes a seven person financial
          unit that provides on-sight supervision and training to improve the quality of local record-
          keeping.
          Supervision by consultants.

* TheUPP is also being extendedthrough MDTFANS grant financing


                                                   5

     The external monitoring includes:

         0  Community participatory monitoring - the most effective means of monitoring i s through
            the beneficiary communities, themselves, who elect a monitoring committee to oversee
            project implementation and finances. Committee members check on prices, quotations,
            supply of goods (quality and quantity), benefits to the community, financial book-keeping,
            and the progress of infrastructure implementation. The implementation team also reports to
            the communities twice in "accountability meetings" (such meetings are stipulated in the
            MDTFANSOperations Manual) regardingprojectprogress and finances. KDP also requires
            project information to be posted on village informationboards.
         0  KDP is routinely audited by BPKP. To date, it has also received supplemental audits from
            both Price Waterhouse and Moores Rowland. For Aceh and North Sumatra, the standard
            2.5% audit sample will be increased to 5%. The revised audit manual for Aceh and North
            Sumatra includes direct feedback to village and kecamatan assemblies on the findings from
            BPKP audits.
         0  Independent civil society monitoring     - through contracts to 28 independent provincial
            NGOs, and 32 independent journalists. Consideration i s also being given to including
            university students. The journalists' contracts provide them with operational expenses so
            they can visit andreport on KDPproject sites inregional andnational newspapers.They do
            not provide any prior report to the project for review before publication. Two copies of their
            published articles are sent to Home Affairs, and an annual review summarizes their
            findings.Thejournalists provide aroute by which the independent NGOmonitors and other
            civil society groups can report on KDP activities.

KDP has already accumulated a large body of evaluation information inboth Indonesian and English
that i s online and can also be made available to the MDTFANS Secretariat and Steering Committee.
These evaluations include:

              i. NGOevaluationreports
              ii. EconomicandfinancialretumstoKDPinvestmentsinpoorvillages
              iii. Studiesonparticipationbywomenandthepoor
              iv.    Reviewsof grievance resolutions and accusations of corruptioninKDP
              v.     Environmentalandtechnical reviews

Quantitative evaluations to date include a 100-village economic evaluation, and a 55,000 household
expenditure questionnaire drawn from Susenas, the government's national expenditure survey. Both
studies found high rates of return to KDP investments and effective poverty targeting.              More
qualitative methods, in particular community-based monitoring, draw on tools such as participatory
monitoring, using the photo documentation methods that were developed for the linked" widows in
conflict areas" project supported through the Japanese Social Development fimd, and community
monitoring and evaluationtechniques developed bythe Aceh NGO forum duringKDP1.

Risks.    Despite its structure, KDP i s not exempt or immune from corruption and other forms o f
leakage. Indonesia's lax system for sanctioning clear cases o f corruption aggravates the risk since,
once it is clear how few risks there are to stealing money, new entrants quickly join the corruption
market. KDP's general strategy for combating this hinges on two elements: high levels of social
control through the various mechanisms (including community participation) to promote social
oversight and financial transparency; and prompt action by government to pursue cases of documented
corruption. The government has announced a national anti-corruption campaign. Sustained, follow-on
enforcement would reduce corruption risks considerably; correspondingly, a failure to implement the
campaign would allow for the continuance o fbad practices.


                                                     6

                       Risk                       RiskRating      1                   RiskMitigationMeasure



Component 3: Data collection quality is bad            S             TOR and contract will specify on-site supervision.

______
Component 4: 5 core regulations not                    H             Follow-on support from KDP is keyedto adoption
adopted                                                              o fregulations.
Extemal autonomy o frevolving fund                     M             Operational Manualrequires Bank review
management
Locally available humanresources for                    S            Outsourcing to NGOs andbanks
training inlocal fund management i s
 insufficient.
 Matching grants innon-tsunami districts do             S            Refusing service to the districts that do not honor
not materialize                                                      agreements
 FromComponentsto Outputs

 Component 1:Matching grant formula for                M             Working group within BAPPENAS and MoF
 long-term sustainability achieved
 Component 4: Regulationsinadequate                    M             Consultations with specialists and local
                                                                     governments underway
 Corruptionrisks:                                      M

 Block Grants: Minimal risks are expected to                         Using block grants and independentdocument
 affect the block grant transfer.                                    counterflows minimizes risk. Publicallydisclosed
                                                                     auditsprovide anadditional check. Enduse
                                                                     oversight remains vulnerable.

 Village Planning Capacity: Collusion risks                          Public accountability for all procurement limits
 exist with suppliers; nepotism with within-                         supplier collusion. Openelections for FDpositions
 village selection                                                   l i m i t s favorite son choices

 Implementation Support: Mainrisks lie with                          Main mechanismhas beento switch to direct
 procurement and with company transfers to                           contracting o f consultants, with standard monthly
 field consultants                                                   payments transferred through payroll

 Microfinance -- Mainrisks are collusion                             Disclosure rules will ensure competition
 among bidders and forced partnerships

 Studies  -- Mainriskis procurementcollusion                         Close monitoringbyMDTF
 and substitution o f personnel

 OverallRiskRating                                     M

RiskRating- H(HighRisk), S (SubstantialRisk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligibleor Low Risk)



                                       PART VI SOCIAL ISSUES
                                                 -
KDP's primary objectives are to support social development. Three topics deserve special mention.
These are social issues related to inclusion, poverty targeting, and the strategy for local institutional
reform.




                                                      7

Inclusion of women and the poor have beenproblematic issues for development projects inIndonesia,
including KDP. The overall participation of women in Indonesian governance has generally dropped
as decentralization progresses and traditional social institutions are revived. Nevertheless, KDP's
gender action programhas made good progress in some areas, and operational analysis i s also doing a
good job identifyingnew methods for increasing the involvement o f women. The introduction of a
separate planning stream for women has been particularly effective, as have project decision making
rules that require the physical presence of women in decision meetings. KDP2 included a competition
for all KDP facilitator groups to advance their best proposals for increasing the involvement o f
women. Results from the competition will be brought into the KDP3 operational manual and training
programs and will be applied inthe disaster affected areas under the MDTFANSgrant-financed KDP.

Poverty targeting. KDP uses a fairly sophisticated method of general poverty targeting. Itbegins with
the development of a master poverty list using the national expenditure survey and an infrastructure
gap assessment survey assembledby Bappenas. The latter will be very much to the fore inthe disaster
stricken areas o f Aceh and North Sumatra. Provinces then select eligible districts from this list, and the
districts thenpropose eligible subdistricts. The final lists are thenre-verified by Bappenas. While there
are problems with both the quality of survey data and some local manipulation of eligibility criteria,
by and large this methodappears to be reasonably effective at identifyingpoor regions.

This overall success however, diminishes significantly when one examines poverty targeting within
sub districts and villages. Because KDP's decision-making process is based on public review of
proposals, wealthier and therefore more educated groups are more able to succeed inthe competition.
Other variables that can act against the poor within sub districts and villages include distance,
language differences, and deep-seated hierarchies that make the poor unwilling to speak up inpublic
meetings. Better facilitation can break through some of these barriers, but the ability o f local elites to
control the KDP processremains a major challenge to the program.

For Aceh, the overall master targeting framework was updated in March and April 2005 through a
comprehensive village damage assessment carried out by facilitators during preparation of the
MDTFTRANS project. All villages drew maps identifying the levels and scope of damage. These
village maps and records formed the basis of the MDTFreconstruction budget assessments (the village
data has also been usedby IOMand will soon be available online).

Working with local institutions. An important question is how can development projects work
effectively with community and local government institutions? Indonesia's ongoing decentralization
program and the accompanying revival o f "adat" (customary) institutions and practices add a new
level of complexity to the question. While in general all studies show that people prefer their "own"
organizations to development groups newly formed by government agencies, not all traditional
organizations are equally well received. "Adat" institutions in many parts of Indonesia already face
resistance from community members who see them as espousing sectarian rather than village-wide
interests. Also, for both traditional and modem institutions of governance in rural Indonesia, lack of
alternative channels o f access and redress continue to be central challenges. A long-term challenge is
the need to develop a full fledged system o f multiple checks and balances between different branches
of government and the smooth flow o f information between different levels o f political and civil
society.


                         PARTVI1 PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS
                                     -
Procurement for the proposed MDTFANS grant-financed KDP project will be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank



                                                    8

Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement with MOHA. A
Procurement Plan will stipulate the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and timeframe as agreed between the Borrower and IDA,
as Partner Agency. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as requiredto reflect the
actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Selectionof Consultants. Consultant services underthe MDTFANSgrant-financed KDP will consist
of: (i) Consultants to provide Implementation Support: National Management Consultants, District
Consultants and Kecamatan Facilitators; (ii) Consulting firms for surveys, audits, impact monitoring,
and special programs. Considering that this i s an extension to the wider KDP3 project and that
selection of entirely new consultants would be disruptive as well as confusing in the field, these
consultants are plannedto be single sourced through extensions to the contracts of existing consultants
which originally were selected through a competitive process under earlier KDP projects subject to
satisfactory performance. Ifa new selection i s required, this will be processed on a competitive basis.
Some exceptions are for selection of consultants with unique qualifications, such as the National
Statistics Bureau(BPS) which were initially single-sourced under the earlier KDP projects.

Goods. A small number of computers, associatedoffice equipment, and motorcycles will be neededin
each district or subdistrict to replace items lost to the tsunami. N o one district or subdistrict i s
expected to require goods worth more than $10,000. These will be purchased through local shopping.

Operating Costs. These consist of expenditures for kecamatan and village staff training, workshops,
minor office equipment, supplies, and utilities. Expenditures for training and workshops cover costs
for travel, accommodation, meals, and venues, which will be processed following standard
government procedures. A semi-annual estimated travel schedule for these operating costs i s prepared
and submitted to IDA. Tickets are purchased through normal government procedures. Per diem
allowances for travel follow standard government procedures.

KecamatanBlock Grants. These are block grants to the community inwhich procurement will be
undertaken using the community participation method. Around 9598% of these activities will be
works for village infrastructures and a smaller part will be used for sub-districtskecamatan planning
grants and revolving fund schemes.

Procurement under the community participation scheme requires a price comparison from at least
three suppliers for transactions estimated to cost less than IDR 15 million (around USD 1,560
equivalent). For transactions estimated to cost IDR 15 million (around USD 1,560 equivalent) or
more, a "bidding" process has to be arranged by the community groups.


The procurement procedures and standard forms to be used for each procurement method as well as
model contracts, are presented inthe ProjectManagement Manual.

Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement. Procurement activities will be
carried out by the Directorate General o f Community Empowerment - Pemberdayaan Masyarakat
dan Desa (PMD), o f the Ministry o f Home Affairs (MOHA). The agency is staffed by a Project
Manager, assisted by Treasury and Financial Management Officers and the procurement function i s
staffed by a Procurement Specialist. Since this MDTFANS, i s basically an expansion of the current
KDP projects, the assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency (PMD) to procure for the
project refers to the PCAR o f KDP3 / KDP3b. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure
for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance.




                                                   9

Risks. The key issues and risks conceming procurement for implementationof the wider KDP project
have been identified in the PCAR of KDP3KDP3b and include legal issues, project cycle
management, organization and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, and
the general procurement environment. Some o f the applicable corrective measures for this MDTFANS
are:

        a    Employ three additional procurement specialists inPMD.
        a    Enhanced disclosureof information to further enable civil society oversight.
        a    The procurement plan has been updated and an updated procurement plan will be
            required for eachnew fiscal year before disbursementscan be initiated.
        a   A Project Operations Manual has been developed during preparation. This manual
             contains a section on procurement which covers procurement procedures, procurement
             methods, and reporting requirements. The manual was reviewed during appraisal. The
             project Grant Agreement specifies that all changes to the manual must be approved by
             IDA,as Partner Agency.
        a    Procurement supervision will be conducted every six months and the procurement plan
             will bemonitoredon a continuous basis.
        a    To enhance procurement capacity of the villages, procurement training will be
             conducted as part of the capacity building for project management in all participating
             villages.

The overall project risk for procurement i s "medium".

ProcurementPlan. The PMD developed aprocurement planfor project implementationthat expands
the procurement plan of the KDP3b project. This planprovides the basis for the procurement methods.
This plan has been agreed between MOHA and IDA is available in the project file. It will also be
available in the project's database and on the World Bank's extemal website. The Procurement Plan
will beupdated inagreementwith the ProjectTeam annually or as requiredto reflectthe actual project
implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Frequency of Procurement Supervision. In addition to the prior review supervision to be
carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment o f the ImplementingAgency has recommended
bi-annual supervision missions to visit the field to cany out postreview o f procurement actions.

Detailsof the ProcurementArrangements

(a) The following tables explain the procurement arrangements under the MDTFANS:
(b) All procurement o f Goods through Shopping will be post reviewed. The prior review
threshold for Consulting firms i s USD 100,000 and for consulting contracts with individuals
the prior review threshold is USD 50,000. All sole source selection will be subject to prior
review. The prior review thresholds will be set forth inthe Procurement Plan of the project
and may berevisited following the capacity improvement o fthe Borrower.

(c) Shortlists composed entirely of national consultants: Shortlist of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$ 400,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely of
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                    10

                                                                               1
-
Sele :tiono f Consulting. Services:                               I
Ref      Descriptionof Assignment       Estimated        Selectio     Review      Expected    Comments
No.                                                         n        by Bank     Proposals
                                                   Contr Method       (Prior I     Sub
                                                                       Post)      mission
-
1.   Additional Sosial and            1,993,333.33      sss                                Contract
     Technical Facilitators in                                                  `05        Amendments o f
     NADProvince andNias                                                                   KDP contract to
     including office support                                                              PT Phibetha
-                                                                                          Kalamwijaya
2.   Additional Specialist                              sss            Prior   IDecember   Contract
     Consultants at Provincial                                                  `05        Amendments o f
     level including office support                                                        KDP contract to
                                                                                           PT Amyhtas
                                                                                           Expert
                                                                                           Consultant,
     Additional Individual                               I C
     Consultant at KDP
     Secretariat including office
     support
     Province BasedMonitoring        I                   CQS                               LocalNGO
     inNADProvince
     Province BasedMonitoring            55,556          CQS                               Local NGO
                                     I
     inNias, NorthSumatera
     Province                                                                  I
6    Organizer for Pre services         833,333          sss           Post    IFebruary   Modification
     Training & Refreshment                                                     `06        Existing
     Training and Trauma Healing                                                           Contract PT.
      Support inNADProvince                                                                Amythas Expert
-    andNias                                                                               Consultant
9    Bank services for managing                          sss
     Community Training funds

-
10   Audit for MDTFNS Grant             111,111          sss

11   Journalist Monitoring               55,556          CQS

13    Impact Monitoring                  83,333          CQS
                                                                     ~

-
14   District Profiles Baselines         83,333          sss                    March `06
      Survey                                             ICQS                               Statistics Board)
                                                                                            1Autonomous
-                                                                                           Gov. Universit

Proci

Ref.          Contract           Estimated Procurement     Review          Expected     Comments
 No.        (Description)          cost         Method     byBank             Bid-
                                                           (Prior /        Opening
                                                            Post)             Date
1.      Procurement Office       18,556      Shopping     Post            November,
        Equipment for Support                                             2005
        Provincial KDP



                                                   11

         Secretariat at NAD
         Province

2.       Procurement             15,000      Shopping       Post        November,
         Computer Equipment                                             2005
         for Support Provincial
         KDP Secretariat at
         NADProvince

3.       Procurement Office       12,000     Shopping       Post        November,
         motorcycles for                                                2005
         Support Provincial
         KDP Secretariat at
         NADProvince



           PARTVI11- FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT,AUDIT AND DISBURSEMENT
                                          ARRANGEMENTS

Executive Summary and Conclusion
The Executing Agency for the Trust Fundwillbethe MinistryofHome Affair (MOHA). The financial
management assessment takes into account the existing constraints arising fkom the security conditions
inAceh, and inadequacies of project management staff of sub-districts that were directly affected by
the Tsunami. The central project management (CPMU) in MOHA as the lead implementing agency
has had prior experience in managing Bank financed projects. However, in managing financial
management risks, it i s anticipated that special challenges will be posed by weak coordination among
different government agencies at the centre and the districts that are involved inplanning approval of
budgets for this project, weak financial management capacity at the local level and project
implementation and the wide geographic spread of project work at the community level. Based on
these factors, financial management risks in the project entity have been rated as substantial. To help
mitigate these risks, a detailedoperating procedures manual that has been adapted from the other KDP
projects funded by the bank will be provided, together with a team of consultants and community
facilitators to support project staff inmaintaining financial controls.

Internal Controls and RiskAnalysis
The project's major risks relate to block grants implementation at the community group (sub-district
and village) level, particularly on how effectively grant beneficiaries use and account for the funds that
have been used for intended purposes; coordination among government agencies and project
management capacity. The project includes several mechanisms to mitigate the risks. Among them
are:
    0    Channeling the project funds directly to community operated bank accounts. The community
         groups will manage and execute the project implementation and account for these collectively.
    0    Coordinationwith other agencieswith Government's rehabilitation agency for Aceh (BRR)
    0    Providing technical support to the national and local management teams. The consultants will
         assist central as well as local project implementing unit on project administration and
         implementation.
    0    Independent reporting by trained facilitators, who supervise and monitor developments of
         project implementation
    0    Adaptation of other proven management tools and systems used successfully under existing
         KDP project. Some o f these are already in operation in other areas in Aceh as part of the on-
         going KDP projects.




                                                     12

          0   The central project management unit (PMU) will issue the project operational manual for the
              project as a key riskmitigationmeasure.

      Besides the above risks, some risks may arise due to delays inthe issue o fbudget approval documents
      (DPA) by the Ministryof Finance and other related documents, such as project manual and budget
      circular letter. Inthe past, delay in issuingsuch documents has been significant, and this has disrupted
      fundflows. The Bankproposesto mitigatethese risksbyrequiring drafts ofthe above documents to be
      available before effectiveness of the grant agreement. We also require all requiredprocedures to be
      documented ina Project Operational Manual.

      A detailed analysis of financial management risks arising from the country situation, the proposed
      project entities and specific project features and related internal controls has been completed during
      the assessment, and is summarized below. These risks have been rated on a scale from High,
      Substantial,Moderate and Low.




1.Budgetaryprocedures         H                 Overall pragress inbudgeting reforms is slow. Risks arise from
                                                incomplete implementationguidelines on a new finance and treasury
                                                laws. There are many implementation guidelines which needto be
                                                issuedby MOF.
2. Public Sector Accounting    S                Public sector follows single entry and cashbasis with a partially
                                                computerized system. Govt. Accounting Standards Board on
                                                modified accrual basis have issued beenprepared and formally
                                                adopted in2005.
3. Auditing Arrangements      M                 BPK now has legal mandate for external audit o f central and all
                                                regional governments, though coverage i s currently limiteddue to
                                                resource constraints. BPK thus has legal mandate for external audit
                                                o f all reconstructionprojects inAcehr
OVERALLlNHEREhIT              Substantial
COUNTRY RISK


1.Implementing Entity         M                 Lead implementing agency is MOHA, which has past experience in
Organization                                    managing Bank projects. However, capacity of local government is
                                                weak.
2, Accounting-~capacity,      S                 Accounting capacity at M O H A i s adequate, but capacity inlocal
staffing.                                       government isweak.
3. Audit arrangements         S                 Risks arise from integrity constraints and limited capacity o f the
                                                auditor
4. Informationsystems.        M                 There i s risko f not getting reliable and timely financial reports from
Reporting and monitoring.                       the local level. KDP has management informationsystem which will
                                                be usedfor the project.
Overall Entitvmecific         Substantial
Risk

1.Organization Structure      H                 MOHA has several experiences inmanaging Bankprojects.
                                                However, coordination and capacity inthe local level are weak.
                                                Group o f consultant team will be provided to assist PIUto manage
                                                the project inthe local level.
2. Budgetaryprocedures        H                 Budgetdocument issuance may create delays infundflows and
                                                hence project implementation. Budget documents should be drafted
                                                and mocessed earlv.



                                                            13

 3. Flow ofFund              M               I The fimd will transfer to communitv account inthree tranches (40%,
                                                                                                                ~~
                                                40% and20%). Except the first tranche, the transfer will dependon
                                                progressimplementation. There willbe independentfacilitatorswho
                                                will ensure that the fund goesto eligiblecommunity.Risksmay also
                                                arise from decentralizeduse of imprestbankaccountsfor field
                                                consultant payment. Mitigation ofthese risks will be through
I                                               extensionof financialaudit to includesuchimprest accounts.

e4. Selectionandout put o f   M                 Timely mobilizationof consultantsandfacilitatorsinthe fields.
 consultants                                    consultantpaymentrelatedto presentationof consultant inthe field
                              M              II The communitygroup will execute the project implementation.
                                                Aadoption ofprovenmanagementtools andsystems usedo f existing
                                                KDP.
 7. Paymentvalidation         S              IIITraditionally a weak area inGovt. executedprojects. To mitigate
                                                risks, additionaldocumentationandinternalcontrolrequirements
                                                willbe prescribedinProjectOperationalManual to enhance
                                                documentary trails.
 8. Audit arrangements        M              IIIRisks arise fromthe auditors' integrityand capacity constraints.
                                                Optionofhiringa privateaudit firmto work under BPK




      Proiect Financial Management Staffs
      MOHA finance staffs have experience infinancial management of many other Bank financedproject.
      They meet the government requirement as project finance officer. Some districts which have
      previous KDP experience have staffs have adequate experience and knowledge. Some other districts
      that were affectedby tsunami do not have adequately trained staff.

      The mitigation actions to reduce the above risks, include providing technical assistance and
      independent monitoring to the project management operation. The project consultants will provide
      technical assistance and training in project screening, financial management, procurement included
      budget document preparation, disbursement mechanism, accounting and reporting. The project also
      provides technical assistance for oversight and monitoring at the local level.

      Accounting and Reporting
      The financial transactions for this project will all be recorded in the Government accounting systems
      and included in Government accountability reports. However, since these reports are not entirely
      suitable for project financial monitoring, for project financial reporting a separate set o f special
      purpose financial statements will be prepared and submitted to the Bank / Trustees. The specific
      accounting procedures for the project's activities will be included inthe Project Manual. The Project
      Management Unit (PMU) inMOHA and PJOK in sub district level will maintain separate accounting
      records, on cash basis. The community groups are also required to maintain simple accounting and
      prepare financial reports for disclosure to communities. Project consultants will assist all
      implementingagencies on financial administration. PMU in MOHA will be responsible to prepare a
      consolidated Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) and submit this to the Bank on quarterly basis, in
      formats to be agreed with the bank. This will include information on financial, physical progress as
      well as procurement activities. Special purpose financial statements for this project will be prepared
      annually for audit purposes.

      Audit Arrangement
      The audit of the annual special purpose financial statements will be carried out by independent auditor
      acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report will be furnishedto the Bank / Trustees no later than
      six months after the end of the government's fiscal year. The acceptability of auditors will take into



                                                            14

account specific audit methodologies that are needed to audit widely dispersed community based
activities, as has been established under other on-going KDP projects inthe country.




   Audit Report                                          Due Date
  ProjectFinancial       A single annual Audit Report, no later than six months after the endof
      Statement          each FiscalYear

Special Account
GO1will establish a Special Account (SA) at Bank Indonesia denominated in U S dollars, with an
authorized ceiling in accordance with the standard Bank disbursement procedures. The SA will be
under the name of the Directorate General of Treasury (DG Treasury), Ministry of Finance. The DG
Treasury shall provide copies of the weekly bank statements of the SA to the central project
management unit. Special Account withdrawal procedures will be followed the govemment
procedures which have been accepted to the Bank in the past. The project will follow FMR-based
disbursement procedures for replenishments into the Special Account. The Withdrawal Application
(W/A) will be submitted to the Bank on quarterly basis and supported by quarterly FMR and cash
forecast for the nextsix months.

Flow of Fund
The project will follow the standard govemment flow of fund mechanism for payments to
beneficiaries, which i s acceptable to the Bank. The project manager will be responsible to administer
and prepare reports on project activities. The project manager in the central as well as PJOK in the
local level, submit their payment requests (SPM) to the nearby Treasury Offices (KPPN) who will
issue payment orders (SP2D) to the operational bank; to transfer the money directly to the thirdparties
or community bank account. For the sub-grants, once a community financial unit (UPK) received the
sub-grant fund in its bank account, UPK may pay the fund to suppliers, wages to village worker or
other beneficiaries. Payments to field consultant salary will utilize impress account mechanism to
administration services firm which developed and applied in existing KDP. The first payment will
cover 90 days (3 months) o f field consultants operation cost. The detail mechanism will be in the
operation manual.

After the operational bank transfer the fundto thirdparties or community account the operational bank
will issue a debit memo to the Bank Indonesiawhich will debitthe project Special Account. Basedon
SP2D issued, the PMU prepares a project financial report which should be submitted to the World
Bank on a quarterly basis and used as the basis for disbursement. The flow of fund diagram i s as in
diagram 1.




                                                   15

                                         Diagram 1
                            Flow of Fund & Reporting Mechanism

                                         I   WorldBank
                                              T          [
                                              A
                                                 F M W A

Central



         ~1      0 erational
                              SP2D       Il....r
                                          Tr asuryoffice 4-
                                                            SPM     ~1

                                                                                         paymentto third
           (sank(                                                                      parties, communities
                 Operational 4-           Treasury Office 4-                              & beneficiaries
                              SPPD       ~1                 SPM     F  Facilitator  l




Allocations o f Grant proceeds




                                                            Total 1      64.7

Procurement
The project will follow procurementprocedures for community demand driven (CDD). The riskmay
come from availability o f material in the local market, since there will be a big demand for such
materials in tsunami affected area.        . Another risk is selection of reliable and trained consultants who
will needto assist the project management units as well as community groups. Arranging hundredsof
trained individual consultants locally, in the face of similar needs of other projects in Aceh, will
present challenges.



                                                         16

Compliance with Audit Covenants.
There i s no outstanding Audit Report either from the ministry or DG level on the Bank financed
project. Therefore, there i s no restriction for the agencyto proceed with the project.

SupervisionPlan
Supervision of project financial managementwill beperformed on a risk-based approach at least twice
a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system, including but not
limited to sub-grant expenditures, accounting, reporting and internal control. The financial
management supervision will be conducted by financial management specialist and Bank consultants.

Action Plan
There i s several actionplans that central government needto implement before project became
effective. Table below shows action plan as agreed

     Issues/ Problems                     RemedialAction                Responsibility       DueDate
                                                                            Unit
  1. Project staffing      Appointment o fproject management staff,       M O H A       Before execution
                           inc. financial officer for the project                       o f Grants
                           management unit and draft TOR for FM                         Agreement
                           consultants should be agreed with the Bank

  2. Project management    Recruitment o f FMConsultants                  M O H A       Inthe first quarter
     capacity                                                                           Year 1ofproject
                                                                                        implementation
  3.Project Operational    Project OperationalManual issued               MOHA          Beforeproject
  Manual (POM) or                                                                       effectiveness
  JuklaWJuknis, inc. FM

  4. Budget& Funding     I The government budget is calculated and          MOHN       IBefore execution
  for the first year       documented, including budget for local level      MOF        o f Grants
  implementation                                                                        Agreement




KecamatanGrant -Disbursement process. KDP begins with a fixed total amount that is assigned
to a sub-district. This amount i s standard and i s widely publicized so that all stakeholders know how
much total money i s available. Within the sub-district or village, the money supports individual
proposals that come from village assemblies. The allocation o f funds to a particular village i s based on
completed designs and budgets drawn up together by the village and the field engineer and approved
by the local government's project manager. Once determined, this amount of funds is never changed,
althoughhow it i s spent and the physical works undertaken can easily be amendedby the three parties.

Upon ratification o f ,the plans by the project manager and responsible party from the village, the
village implementation team requests an initial withdrawal from the local branch of the treasury at the
district level. They use a standard administrative format that simply withdraws a standard percentage
o f the allocated funds. It is signed by the village representatives and by the project manager. The size
o f the withdrawal i s a standard percentage o f the budgeted total. The treasury office undertakes a few
simple checks when processing each withdrawal: proof that the project manager and village
representative are indeed the authorized parties, a copy o f the grant agreement with the village, and
signature samples. The funds are transferred directly into the account of the village implementation
team ina local branchof a government or commercial bank.




                                                          17

Even though the funds are intheir own bank account, the village team cannot withdraw funds without
countersigning by the consultant. Both the consultant and the responsible person from the village
would have previously submitted their signature samples to the bank, along with proof that they were
the authorized persons.        In order to obtain the approval of the field engineer, the village
implementation team has to produce an acceptable Funds Utilization Plan - a detailed list of
anticipated expenditures for the immediate future. The frequency of withdrawals depends in part on
physical proximity to the bank from the village, but inprinciple the amount o f cash kept inthe village
should be as small as practical. Inthe affected regions, special contracts with commercial or state
banks are signed to provide regular cash deliveries to outlying locations. Every expenditures made by
the village has to be accounted for in an Expense Report. An adequate receipt i s one that has the
signature of the person receivingthe funds, a clear description of what the expenditure was for, a clear
amount, and date. All receipts o f materials and services inthe Expense Report require the attachment
o f delivery orders, wherein a designated person notes the items and quantity received, countersigned
bythe person deliveringthem.

Withdrawals from the bank continue to be made until the first tranche's funds are nearly exhausted.
At this point the village requests additional funds from the treasury, using the same form
countersigned by the project manager. This shows both the funds requested and cumulative status. In
addition to this request, the project managerrequires two other items prior to submittingthe request to
the treasury. The first i s the summary of expenses found inthe Expense Report, and the second i s a
status report signed by the local bank saying how much funds remain deposited from the previous
tranche.

The full expense report includes a summary o f expenses and receipts, including the amount o f cash on
hand inthe village. This sheet is backed up with the proof of every expenditures and their associated
delivery notes, all of which are glued to blank sheets of paper and bound. One expense report book i s
prepared for each withdrawal from the treasury, but these books stay in the village. They can be
examined by the consultant, the project manager or his designate, any inspectors, and any person in
the village who i s interested.

Payment of incentive wages to villages i s accomplished through the use of two standard payment
forms. These are used for any payment to a villager, whether working at a daily rate or working on a
piece rate based on accomplishment. The form for pay based on attendance lists the workers in a
particular group (usually around 20 workers, men and women), their attendance, their accrued wages
this period, andtheir signature (or thumb printifthey are illiterate) confirming that they have received
the given amount of money. Most payments are on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. Payment based on
accomplishment also shows the list of workers, the basis for calculating the volume accomplished, the
division of payments to each individual (decided amongst themselves), and'their individual signatures.
All ofthese payments and rates are displayedpubliclyonnoticeboards.

The CashBook. A key to financial control i s the requirement that the implementation team maintain
an accuratecash book ina standard format, updated daily. The key features o f the cashbook are that:
         0   The information i s maintained ina ledger so that corrections and additions are apparent;
         0   Itcontains a detailed list ofall financial transactions, bothreceipts andexpenses;
         0   Expenses are described at the same level o f detail as the official receipts, with each
             expenditure entered into a column corresponding to the appropriate project sub-
             component (includingthe village team's administrative expenses)
         0   All expenses are codedwith a simple expense category and listedwith the number written
             on the proofof expense
         0   Two kinds o f incoming funds are recorded: from the treasury into the bank, and from the
             bank into the village treasurer's hands. Balances are calculated usingthe latter.
         0   Erasures, white-out, and obliterating marks are forbidden, so that corrections are visible.


                                                     18

         0   Books are closed near the end of each month and books are then signed by four persons:
             the village treasurer, the responsible party, the field engineer, the village chief in his
             capacity as controller, and two villagers as witnesses.
         0   A runningbalance is maintained, with the proviso that the balance cannot be negative. In
             this way, the books always show the actual status of expenses and cash, without hidden
             expenses and loansto complicate the understandingo f an inspector.

Village-level meetings are held during implementation to review procurement and expenditures, and
all information is posted on public signboards (avg. 10 per village). An accountability meeting i s held
at project completion for the village implementationteam and the facilitators to account for funds and
to handover the project to the village, representedby the council and the village head.

Inspection: Several government inspection agencies will make formal inspections of a given KDP
village.    The district and provincial inspection offices typically made inspections during
implementation to a small sample o f villages in their area. They are usually more concerned with
administrative inspections, but they also review the physical works to some extent. The National
Development Auditing Agency BPKP performs a larger scale inspection several months after the end
of the fiscal year, again on a sample of villages. In the field, representatives of their regional branch
offices inspect both the administrative and physical aspects, as well as the visible benefits. Their
reports are sent bothto the project managerinJakarta as well as to IDA as Partner Agency.

More frequent inspections are made by other project consultants. Senior engineers are assignedto each
district, and more than half their time (by contract and TOR) i s spent invisiting villages to check on
the physical works and on the work of the field engineers. This includes checking the administration.
Incaseswhere the works or.administrationis below standard, recommendations andinstructionsare
left with the implementation team and field engineer. An independent inspector visits villages at
randomwithout any accompanying consultants, and this serves as a crosscheck o f all the above.

Conclusion. Although lacking insophistication, experience frompreviousKDPprojects show the
financial control system inthe community projects for the most part i s effective inlimiting leakages
and indetecting leakages that occurred. The system includes checks andbalances infunds
withdrawals, detailedbookkeepingand records of expenses, and periodic inspections inthe field. The
formal systems are coupledwith the communities' social controls and fueled by transparency.
Village's capacities to manage these systems vary, but for the most part the differences can be
remediedthrough hands-on training and follow-up. This i s not to say that malfeasancenever occurs,
but itis usuallyrelatively easyto detect, oftenreportedwhen it does occur, andinenough cases actors
have been subjected to administrative sanctions when it was detected to prevent any widespread
contagion effects.

Weaknesses in the system appear to revolve largely around implementation externalities rather than
aspects of the system itself. For example, while the community projects' financial management
systems can usually detect leakages, there i s a much less well developed system for imposing
sanctions on people who steal. Similarly, local government auditors have been accused of falsifying
reports or to ask villagers for money to not report supposedfinancial abuses.


                                PARTIX-SAFEGUARDPOLICIES

1. EnvironmentalSafeguards

Any construction activity will have some impact on the environment although the significance is
largely proportional to the scale o f the construction activity. The scale o f the various construction



                                                    19

activities under the Kecamatan Development Program i s relatively small. However, KDP i s concerned
about preserving the environment and ensuring that any negative effects from KDP activities can be
avoided or at least mitigated. The Kecamatan Development Program follows official Indonesian
government policy inregards to environmental impacts. Although exempt from formal studies due to
the scale o f the works, planners of KDPinfrastructure are requiredto consider environmental effects.

Experience from Previous KDP Projects. A total of 14,175 small scale infrastructure projects were
financed duringthe thirdyear of the first KDP project. These were considered to be representative of
investments in all years and were classified into one of ten infrastructure development types. From the
data, the following conclusions were drawn:


    0    of the ten categories of development, only five are o f a type which would raise any potential
         concern from an environmental point of view, namely; roads, irrigation, bridges, water supply
         and wharves; and


    0    the average scale of construction was extremely small.           For example, the average road
         investment financed development of only 1.2 kilometers of new road at a cost o f about 36.6
         million rupiah (US$ 4,100) per kilometer. Most of the irrigation development involved
         rehabilitation of small schemes although there was some new constructionas well. To provide
         some perspective, for new construction, the average investmentof around 25.3 million rupiah
         (US$2,850) would finance only five or six hectares o f new, low-technology irrigation
         command. The other forms of development were similar: bridges include small scale steel
         girder bridges with wooden decks, concrete bridges, wooden bridges, and suspensionbridges;
         water supplies come from a variety of sources, but mostly come from springs and dug wells.
         Most distribution systems are gravity fed, but some utilize electrical or diesel pumps.

    Field oversight reviews did not identify significant or recurrent environmental impacts.
    Nevertheless, some environmental issues were reportedto the KDP complaints unit.

Response and Strategy for Controlling Environmental Impacts. Previous experience showed that
only a small number o f environmental issues were encountered. Most of the issues had their origin in
apparent failure to follow best civil engineering practice and it i s likely that this can be addressed
through continued training and supervision of engineering staff providing technical advice to
participatingkabutpatens.

The methodused to ensure that proper attentioni s paidto environmentalproblems i s a combination of
standard checklists and a special checklist for the environment. For eachtype o f subproject, a technical
standard is included in project manuals, and these include considerations o f environmental effects.
For example, the magnitude o f the grade o f a road and the steepness of the cross-slope perpendicular
to the road are limited. Drainage for the road must be installed, together with culverts to discharge
water safely.     Leeching fields from latrines have to be located at least ten meters from any water
supply, and located downstream as groundwater flows. Water supplies cannot be located near any
potential source of contamination.

The completion of the special checklist for the environment i s an obligatory part of the planning
process. Each type o f project i s checked for the various treatments that must be performed on it to
avoid or repair environmental problems. At the midpoint o f construction, the same form i s brought
out to the field and inspected again, at a time when it i s still feasible to easily repair deficiencies.At
the end of construction, the form i s checked one more time against the original plan.




                                                    20

The kabupaten engineering consultant i s responsible for reviewingall infrastructure designs on KDP
projects inthe kabupaten. H e or she will reject any design not accompanied by a completed checklist,
and may also request clarification for any feature where aproblemi s anticipated.

One other element of handling environmental problems i s the use o f technical inspectionforms, which
exist for many types of subprojects. Among the items inspected are those dealing with aspects of
environmental impact, such as for roads where the forms include slope protection, drainage ditches,
and shoulders. These forms are filled out incidentally by anyone who inspects the infrastructure.

Havingregard to the environment, the following items are includedon the project's negative list:

         procurement of any products containingasbestos;
         procurement ofpesticides or herbicides;
         production, processing, handling, storage or sale oftobacco or products containingtobacco;
         any activities within a nature reserve or any other area designated by the Government of
         Indonesia for the management and/or protection of biodiversity except with the prior explicit
         and written approval o f the government agency responsible for the management andor
         protection o f that area;
         miningor excavation of live coral;
         water resourcesdevelopments on rivers which flow into or out of other countries;
         alterations to river courses;
         landreclamationlarger than 50 ha.;
         new irrigationlarger than 50 ha.; and
         construction of water retaining or storage structures of capacity greater than 10,000 cubic
         meters.

2. Social Safeguards.

Guidelines for Resettlement, Land and Asset Acquisition.               During the construction of village
infrastructure it i s nearly inevitable that some land, crops, trees, houses, or other assets might need to
be acquired to allow the most effective, efficient, and beneficial use o f resources. For example,
existing village paths are often upgraded to become all-weather roads with slightly wider running
surfaces, plus shoulders and drainage ditches. The so-called right-of-way therefore needs to be
increased one or two meters, and this can only happen if the land bordering the road i s acquired.
Similarly, it i s not always possible or desirable to locate water supplies, latrines, bridges, markets, or
jetties on communally heldland.

KDP has a simple policy framework and set of operational procedures to guide cases of land
acquisition invillage subprojects. The objective o f these guidelines i s to ensure that no family affected
by land acquisition experiences a material reduction intheir income, living standards, or livelihoods.
Implementation o f these guidelines i s built into the project oversight and facilitator terms o f reference,
and the project providesbothinternal and independent monitoring o f their implementation.

Previous KDP Experience. On earlier KDP Projects, World Bank supervision missions have never
reportedany case o f families being involuntarily displaced, but there were casesbothof facilitators not
following the rules, and also cases of the rules being followed but families nevertheless being
dissatisfied with their outcome. However, World Bank missions never found cases o f people visibly
losing significant productive resources or experiencingdrops inincome, livelihood, or living standards
because of a KDP project. In general, the Bank's field reviews suggest that lack of government
involvement in KDP whether by national or local agencies seems to limit land acquisition to a bare




                                                     21

minimum, and where it does happen, direct negotiations by villagers with the community councils
produce outcomes that meet the Bank's policy objectives of safeguarding against adverse impacts.

Minimizing acquisition. Both the ThirdKecamatan Development Project and the MDTFANSgrant-
financed KDP follow the same acquisition procedures as the first two Kecamatan Development
Projects. Policy guidelinesand procedures meet the standards o f World Bank policies on resettlement.
KDP's guidelines and reporting formats are incorporated into the project operations manual and are
tracked through the MIS. The overarching objective of KDP's guidelines i s to ensure that the
acquisition o f lands is minimized and does not result in persons losing their home or suffering any
decline in income, livelihood, or living standards as a result o f the project. All proposals must be
reviewed and their location, alignment, or specifications changed as necessary. Proposals to widen
roadright-of-ways must also be reviewed carefully.

As it will not be possible inmany cases to eliminate the need for acquisition, the guidelines allow for
acquiringassets through the followingtwo methods:

          a.  Voluntary Donations. In accordance with local custom, community members have the
              right to donate their land or other assets or to move their homes temporarily or
              permanentlywithout seeking or being given compensation;

          b. Donations with compensation. Persons who donate their land or other assets have the
              rightto seek andreceive compensation.

Voluntary contribution o f land and other assets is quite common inIndonesian villages, assuming that
no individual loses too significant a portion of their land. Losing a meter or two of land on the side of
the road i s quite attractive to farmers, who will then have an all-weather road directly abutting their
fields.  Voluntary contribution for other purposes besides KDP i s not unusual. Paying compensation
for land i s also beyondthe financial capacity of the village.

Providing appropriate compensation. Guidelines have been established to manage compensation
for persons inthe second category so that all these persons improve or at least hold steady their quality
of life, income, andproductioncapacity compared to pre-project conditions.

Principle of Compensation. The village must guaranteethat one o f the following methods i s usedin
timely fashion to compensatethe persons who are affected by the project (project funds absolutely
cannot be usedfor compensation):
          a. acquiredland i s replaced with other land of equal productivity, or with other productive
              assets of equal value

          b. materials and labor are givento replacepermanent structures that areremoved

          c. plants destroyed or missingor damaged are compensated inaccordance with their value

          d. other acceptable compensation is given

Principle of Consultation. Each village must ensure that all the people affected by the project are
consulted at a public meeting. During this meeting, an individual's right to compensation must be
explained andjustified, as well as other alternatives as found inthe guidelines. Formal minutes of the
meeting shall be made and must include the main points o f discussion as well as any decisions
reached, including:
          a. for voluntary contributions, the name o f the donor and details o fthe donation;



                                                    22

        b. for compensatedassets, the names of the persons receiving compensation, and details of
             the type and amount of compensation, such as seen inthe table below:

                                    Table3: Summary of Compensation
                                                 Affected     I Compensation Additional
                                                                                 I
                                                  Assets          Promised        Agreements
    1.Agricultural land (m')
  2. Other lands
     Area affected (m')
      Houses or buildings (units/m2)
   3. Plants affected by the project

         c. Inaddition, the minutes will contain the signatures o f the affected persons and the village
             chief. There will be notes about complaints made by the affected persons. And there will
             be a map showing the location of the affected assets.

The kecamatan facilitator will deliver a copy of the abovenotes to all those peoplewho are affectedby
the project, to determine directly their wishes inregards to compensation, their perceptiono f whatever
agreements were reached, and their complaints (ifany).

Project Approval. As the process of determiningcompensation is the responsibility of the village,
wherein the facilitator has no decision-making power, the kecamatan facilitator i s bound to do the
following:
   0  H e or she must delay final approval untilall persons affectedby the project are satisfied with the
      compensation they are to receive, even if this causes a stalemate, the changing of design, and
      interminable negotiations. Outsidersmust not intervene to impose a solution.
   0  H e or she must delay implementation until compensation i s realized. Whenever a project has
      reached the implementation stage, the senior consultants, government officials, and donor should
      assume that compensation has been successklly delivered.
   0  Inprinciple, ifmore than 200 persons are affectedandrequire compensation, a compensation
      plan must be produced and then agreed to by the Secretariat of the National Coordination Team
      prior to project approval. This has never occurredinthe experience of the KDP.

Rightto Voice Complaintsand Take LegalAction. All complaints shouldbe handled and solved at
the village level. If the problem cannot be solved in the village, complaints and legal action against
these guidelines, the implementation of agreements found in the minutes, or other grievances can be
filed by the person affectedor his or her representative to the kecamatan. If still not solved, it can be
further submitted for a decision by the Bupati. Complaints also can be sent to the Complaints
Handling Unit of KDP at the regional or national level, where they will be analyzed and an
investigation organized.

Verification. At any time, allrecords regarding compensation, includingminutes of the meeting and
proof of receiving compensation must be available for inspection by the kecamatan facilitator,
kabupaten management consultants, auditors, and persons assigned to monitor aspects o f the project
by the project Secretariat or NationalManagement Consultants. The Village Minutesand evidence of
compensation having been made shall be provided to the kecamatan empowerment facilitator assisting
the village, to supervising engineers, auditors and socio-economic monitors when they undertake
reviewsunder the project.

Conclusion, While no process of land acquisition will ever be fully free of problems, KDP's small
size and the need for a local-level consensus does appear to provide an effective control system that




                                                   23

minimizes the scope and impact o f land acquisition. The MDTFANS grant-financed KDP will
continue to monitor impacts closely.


        PARTX -COMPLAINTSHANDLINGAND ANTI-CORRUPTIONSTRATEGY

Projects in Indonesia operate in a high-risk environment when it comes to issues of leakage and
corruption. Project preparation for the wider KDP3, and the MDTFANS grant-financed KDP,buildon
the 2002 financial management assessment and disbursement action program for KDP2, which
provides the compliance framework for fiduciary management. Nevertheless, highly dispersed
community projects such as KDP operate in somewhat different institutional environments than
standard projects do whichmust be addressedby their anti-corruption strategies. A well-implemented
strategy that makes greater use of social controls and transparency can ensure levels of confidence
demonstrably higher than traditional project designs that operate inthese very same villages.

1.Overallperformance.
There are three major sources o f evidence which suggest that there is less corruption in KDP than
most other community projects. First, KDP's infrastructure i s found to be on average 55% less
expensive than comparable government-executed infrastructure. These cost savings do not yet include
community voluntary contributions which nationally inKDP average 17%of project costs. Technical
reviews also conclude that output quality i s the same or better. A 2004 infrastructure independent
evaluation found that out of the 108 infrastructure projects reviewed, 94% of the projects were found
to be o f very good or good technical quality. Villagers reported to evaluators that 95% of the projects
had significant impacts intheir daily quality o f life.


2.       IdentifyingCorruptioninIndonesianCommunityProjects.

Traditional community development projectshave a relatively limitednumber o f well-known points of
leakage. A non-exhaustive list would include:

      Transfers. Financial transfers to communities usually come earmarked or in kind. The Local
      Level Institutions (ESW) study found that less than 50% o f the nominal IDR 20 million cash
      grant per village got there at all, and less than 15% of that amount actually came as a cash grant.
      The Government's IDT (Inpres Desa Tertinggal), a $200 million nationwide poverty program,
      also suffered badly from delivery of goods inkind(usually o f an inferior lund).

      Poor contractor management. Contractor management for communities i s normally handledby
      district technical offices, not by villages. Contract awards are often "directed" to favored
      companies, regardless of qualifications or experience. Anecdotal interviews by WB staff have
      found endemic problems o f substitution o f inferior materials, unfinished works, and off the top
      payments for contract`awards. There are no sanctions for inferior work.

      Poor pricing practices. Because contractor markets are not competitive, both over billing and
      over design are endemic.

      False taxes and charges. Government charging for "services" i s so common that officials will
      even issue receipts for blatantly illegal practices, such as a standard 5% charge on all funds
      going through a Village Head. Virtually every financial transaction ina development project has
      a charge on it to get the proper forms signed and the funds released.




                                                     24

      Standardfznancial control systems often work against rather than in favor of sound fznancial
      management.     Villagers everywhere report recurrent charges being levied by auditors and
      inspectors to not find fault with financial reporting, often on formats that either have never been
      givento villagers or else contradict the ones already inuse.

The corruption problems with technical assistance for community projects are also well known and,
while they are not very different from Indonesian development projects in general, they stand out in
the case of community programs because communities often have few alternative suppliers and
nobody from whom they can seek redress:

      Improper billingpractices by consultantfzrms. InKDPl, students from one company called the
      WB to complain about how they and all other candidates (more than 100) were given
      instructions on how to falsify their CVs to meet the project's TOR. Another (fired) company
      claimed that it was forced to swallow a merger with the second-ranked company, including an
      IDR 300 million cashpayment andthe absorption of 20 entirely unqualified staff.

      Cuts in salaries and travel allowances. Often QCBS "winners" can beat the competition
      because apparently competitive overhead costs are "subsidized" by later cuts from staff salaries
      and travel allowances.

      Price fzxing between TA staff and local government (including village heads) i s also common,
      aided by a general lack of public information about prices.

3.      Anti-corruption Strategy andAction Program.

Existing Strategy. KDP's anti-corruption strategy has three main themes: (i)        eliminate complexity;
(ii) brightlightsoneveryfinancialtransaction;(iii)
    shine                                                    respond quickly to complaints. The guiding
principle underlying the anti-corruption program i s that,KDP procedures must encourage oversight
and action bymultiple stakeholders, notjust the World Bank or the government.

Eliminate complexity. Inmany traditional community-oriented projects, money disappears due to the
welter of transfer levels, intermediaries, and processing requirements involved inturningWorld Bank
project funds into tangible infrastructure such as bridges, roads, and water supply systems in distant
villages. KDP simplifies every aspect of this system. Because money goes straight from the national
level to the village accounts, there are almost none of the delays or leakages normal to designs that
step funds down through inter-governmental transfers. The project's handover of budgets to the
villagers also supports simplified management: when agencies start listing the many forms and
procedural requirements needed to get started, the villagers almost always take their business
elsewhere.

KDP has also simplifiedall o f the steps involved in financial management and disbursement so that
many kinds o f stakeholders can easily understand and use them. There are no "hidden" charges
allowed other than those listed on the forms, and Ministry o f Finance ratification included notes to
auditors that no other financial reporting or license documents were to be used other than those
negotiated with the project. All o f the basic formats attached to the appraisal report are the same as
those used inthe field.

Shine a bright light. Transparency lies at the core o f KDP's anti-corruption work, and it takes place in
three mainarenas. First, there are a broad range o f materials andprocedures to ensure that all financial
information i s both public and publicly displayed within the villages. For example, local shopping
price quotations for materials must be read out loud inpublic meetings to be valid; signboards posted
around the villages state material and labor unit costs; and all bookkeeping i s managed by an elected


                                                    25

"implementation committee." Unlike standardpractice, there isn't a single format in KDP that would
allow a lone official to withdraw or transfer funds: all require at least three signatures, including one
from an elected villager and a secondfiom the project facilitator. Second, KDP involves abroadrange
o f entirely independent groups whose job it i s to inspect KDP sites for signs o f irregularity. These
groups have full access to KDP documents. The provincial NGOs also have monthly meetings with
the consultant and government management teams to list the problems they encounter and review
proposed corrective actions. Third, the government management group has also taken many steps to
ensure national level transparency. KDP i s the first World Bank project inIndonesia to send its audit
summaries to civil society oversight groups. Contract provisions and follow-up letters for the NGO
monitors provide them with full discretion to share all findings, and the independent journalist
contracts specify that there i s no prior review. MOHA's implementingagency, PMD, also publishes a
list o f the problems encountered in commonly read provincial newspapers so that independent
organizations can check for themselves whether problems have been reported and fixed.

Response to complaints. The last major element in the strategy is to follow-up on reported cases of
corruption - and to be seen to be following up on corruption by villagers and other stakeholders. KDP
has several channels for villagers to complain, including a well-usednational "complaints box" whose
address i s printed on all village information materials. This complaint handling systemwas introduced
under the first KDP and continues to handle a highvolume o f complaints and project inquiries. Under
the secondKDP, inkeepingwiththe evolving decentralized management, the project decentralized the
complaints handling process and now there i s at least one officer in each of the 16 Regional
Management Unit offices. The Project maintains a national and regional level complaints database,
updatedweekly, which i s routinely shared with civil society watchdog groups, including the press. At
the provincial level, reports by field staff, villagers, and the monitors are logged in, reported to local
government and the national team, and then pursued every two weeks until resolved. In several
districts and provinces, increasingly active project coordination teams also pursue corruption
problems. Insome extreme cases they have removed abusive village heads and sub district heads and
succeededin getting missingfunds restored. More common than restoring funds i s fixing bad quality
infiastructure, and project files document several cases where corrective action plans were proposed
and implemented. Approximately 5% of the TA staff has also been replaced because of corruption or
letting corruption happenwithout reporting it.

Tables 4 and 5 summarize the reporting and follow-up from the second KDP (January 2003 to June
2004). Duringthis period, the Complaints Handling Unit (HCU) managed a total of 2,381 cases, with
a 68 percent resolutionrate. Total cases handledto date (1998 to June 2004) are 3,367 cases with an
overall resolution rate o f 80 percent.    Grievances or inquiries originate primarily from consultants'
reports (83 percent of reported cases), followed by other sources, audits, and community letters.



Types of Cases                     Total       Resolved       YOof Total    CasesStill      YOof Total
                                                  Cases    I     Cases      In Process       Cases in
                                                               Resolved   I                  Process
Violations against KDP              861            682           79%            179            21%
Principles aid Procedures
FundsMisuse                         951            424           45%            527            55%
InappropriateIntervention           74             63            85%            11              15%     -
Force Majeur                        49             33            67%            16             33%
Other                               446            417           93%            29              7%
Total                              2,381          1,619          68%            762            32%




                                                     26

                               Othernewspaperclippings
Other                                                                     230                 10%
TOTAL                                                                     2,381              100%

They include carry-over casesfrom 2002 (XDPl)

Previous KDP have also enforced a vigorous financial management improvement campaign for
national level contracts. This included:

    e   letters from the implementing agency, PMD, and the companies to all field staff informing
        themoftheir salaries andentitlements;
    e    spot on-site inventory reviewso f equipment and paycheck stubs;
    e   retroactive payment corrections as conditions for contract extensions (esp. for travel);
    e    semi-annual meetings with all companies to review their performance;
    e    spot ex-post reviews o f staff qualifications; and
    e   replacement ofrecurrent offending companies.


Action Program. KDP's anti-corruption action program consists of three major sets of actions. First,
the project design uses a variety o f procedures to minimize leakage duringnational level procurement,
contract management, and financial transfers. Second, prior to appraising the previous secondKDP in
2000, the project carried out an anti-corruption diagnostic that supplemented project specific fiduciary
requirements with an incentive map o f opportunities for corruption within the village planning process
(Table 6). The village-level action plan used that map to identify opportunities for minimizing
corruptionrisks, although it shouldbe notedthat this is an ongoing process.




                                                      27

                                                       leads to badprojects
Preparations for implementation: funds are released    High
                                                       Mainthreat i s collusion among three signatories o f
                                                       bank withdrawal to take a cut o f fundsbefore
                                                       transferring to village
Implementation:                                        Extremely high
Materials are bought                                   Most common source o f corruption inKDP (apart
Village labor i s mobilized                            from operational funds & consultants' payments) is
Roads &bridges are built                               with procurement o f materials. Implementation
                                                       teams buy cheaper materials than those specified
                                                       andpocket the difference.
Post-implementation:                                   Medium
Loans repaid; revolving funds set up                   Loanrepayments managedbadly; risko f
Maintenance o f infrastructure                         corruption with user fees for maintenance.


KDP's design allows for graduated sanctions because funds cannot be released to the field unless the
facilitators are present to sign off on transfers. Removing the facilitators from the field location is
relatively easy to carry out and has become a sanction preferred by MOHA as a response to
supervision findings. Conversely, once restitution has been made, the facilitator can be returnedto the
field and the project continues. Although initially reluctant to use this sanction, MOHA has become
increasingly confident that it produces rapid results. In a number o f cases, MOHA will temporarily
suspend an entire kecamatan until corruption problems reported by individual villages have been
rectified. This i s an effective remedybecauseit introduces peer pressure rather than making corruption
entirely a matter of enforcement by the center.

Second, interviews with field staff and companies by Bank missions and reporters suggest a strong
downwards trend in diversions. A growing number newspaper reports and village self-reporting point
to spillover effects: villagers reject demands for kickbacks and inseveral cases have runpeople asking
for bribes out o f town. Finally, independent reviews by professionally qualified auditors (i.e. SGS)
also report generally low corruption levels inKDP subprojects.

So much for the good news! The bad news i s that: (i) i s still corruption in KDP; (ii) all
                                                            there                                     not
remedies work; and (iii)there has been little progress in improving the overarching fiduciary
environment within which the project must work. Local level collusion, often with district and village
governments, remains the single biggest source o f problems. Of special difficulty has been the
endemic tendency to avoid sharing information, or limiting its access only to officials and elites.
Another recurrent problem has been the harassment and the physical intimidation o f staff who report
corruption. Fear of reprisals inhibits facilitator's willingness to report corruption, although reports
from the facilitators still remain the best source of information about diversions and leakage. Overall,
the reportingofproblems and their dispositionneeds to be improvedandbetter protectionprovidedfor
the whistleblowers who are threatened.

Sanctions and remedies. Three o f the project's consulting firms (of 19) were not extended in the
project's second year because o f concerns over delays or cuts in payments to field staff. Not
surprisingly, the poorest and most isolated provinces have suffered most from corruption. A very
informal group discussion with government counterparts suggested that aggregate corruption inKDP
amounts to 10% (project audits estimated that only 5% o f funds could not be accounted for) but all
such numbersmust be treated as working assumptions, at best.

By and large official complaint channels have proved to be of little use and complaints to authorities
have not provided an effective corruption sanction. Nevertheless, there has been progress over time. In
the final year of the 1'' KDP, at least 15 legal cases were successfully brought against village and sub


                                                    28

district officials by communities working with NGOs and justice officers. When pursuit of official
corruption happens, sanctions are nearly always the outcome o f villager and consultant appeals to
higher-level officials, like bupatis, or the outcome of WB supervision follow-up, and are not due to a
functioning, accessible systemof legalredress.

Central government response to the corruption problem has been relatively encouraging. The project
management secretariat has expandedthe program o f legal assistanceto KDP villages. They have also
initiated monthly meetings with the independent journalists and with the NGO monitors to review
progress on their findings.A particularly relevant indicator of growing government interest inthe anti-
corruption work has been the suspension of two provinces because of failure to act on corruption
reports. Inone case the suspensionwas lifted when the offending parties were removed and the funds
returned, while in the other, the main district where the problems were happening was dropped from
the project entirely.

Revised strategy. Both the wider 3`d KDP and the MDTFANS grant-financedKDP will
extend the basic principles of the strategy outlined above by adding some additional elements to it.
The most important new decision will be how to deal with decentralization. Decentralization in
principle offers new opportunities to promote government accountability. Inpractice, at least during
the transition to a decentralized administration, the opportunities for rent-seeking are more likely to
rise than to fall. Nevertheless, just as center-district relationships are being entirely re-worked,
executive-legislative relationships are also a site o f struggle. KDP's anti-corruption strategy will chart
a course through this brokenlandscapeinthe followingways:

         Technical assistance procurement will remain centralized (a pilot program under a previous
         community project to decentralize contractingto the provinces failed), although all field staff
         willbe from their province;
         Increasingly deep involvement o f DPRDs, including routine provision of audit reports and the
         joint implementation monitoring teams;
         Increasing audits by BPKP and carrying out spot audits from the center by the national
         management consultant company;
         Usingprior year performance as the basis for increasing each district's KDP allocations;
         Preparation o f an on-site auditing manual that will be issued by MoF and distributed to all
         KDPparticipants with an MoF cover letter sayingthat no other auditing formats are allowed;
         N o projects will be allowed to enter a new project year until problems in the master MIS
         complaints database have been satisfactorilyresolved;
         Distribution and public posting in each district of a unit cost price table based on real
         expenditures; and
         More sharing o f information with civil society watchdog groups. At least two independent
         NGOs and 5 independent journalists will be contracted to monitor KDP Acemias.

In the past, government commitment to pursuing corruption problems was at times lackadaisical in
part because of the conflict of interest created by the unified civil service. That is, the district level
civil servants involved in unauthorized diversions were often outposted members o f the same central
agencies. Sanctions by past or future colleagues were minimal, and usually taken only inresponse to
strong World Bank (and a times, community) pressure.

Decentralizationchanges this configuration somewhat. All of KDP's local implementing agencies are
now part of local government, not Jakarta line agencies and ministries. At least intheory, the built-in
conflict between regulation and implementation i s eliminated. Part o f the anti-corruption strategy o f
the new projects, therefore, consists of encouraging the Jakarta group to exert their regulatory role




                                                    29

more forcefully. Evidence that there i s some willingness to move this way i s already appearing within
the current KDP:

    0   Strong PMD support for the idea of legal advocacy by usinguniversity-based lawyers to help
        bringlegal cases against corruption inKDP;
    a   Suspending entire provinces and kabupaten becauseof local corruption.
    a   Strong involvement inDPRD alliance-building;
    a   Increased, critical audits by BPKP.

MDTF'sprogram for KDP oversight not only inthe wider 3rdKDP, but also as Partner Agency under
the MDTFANS grant-financed KDP in Aceh and North Sumatra, involves a number of managerial
innovations. IDA involvement in capacity assessment and prior reviews i s extended much further.
MDTF staff will routinely join field supervision, and they will also organize hands-on short courses
for task teams and senior counterpart staff. In addition to KDP's collaboration with MDTF, three
additional activities promote anti-corruption work in the project. First, because KDP i s managed
through the World Bank's resident mission, it i s feasible to adopt a supervision strategy that involves
constant rather than periodic oversight. Supervision missions will visit field sites every month.
Second, MDTF will play a very active role in pursuing corruption cases. Project supervision i s not
done randomly: the project's MIS i s used to select cases where corruption or other anomalies have
been reported. The government and MDTFpursue verified cases untilrestitutionhas been made or the
subproject suspended. Third, the World Bank's ESW program on governance and anti-comption
includes several KDP-based activities, such as work on mapping corruption in community
development projects, an activity on how poor communities can access the legal system, or a recently
started program to conduct research on the effectiveness of incentive and sanction regimes in
community programs. While results from such programs benefit the Bank's overall governance reform
strategy, they also provide immediatebenefits to KDP implementation.

MDTF oversight for the 3rd KDP and the MDTFANS grant-financed KDP can be strengthened in a
number o f ways. First, supervision in the initial year will pay special attention to the quality o f
mechanisms for receiving and respondingto complaints from the field. The MDTF team will provide
monthly reviews o f this system for the first six months of operation. Second, the World Bank's new
disclosure policy allows for a more in-depth involvement by civil society organizations, particularly
those concerned with transparency and governance reform in Indonesia. Third, the pilot program to
outsource additional auditing to private firms will be extended to the 3rd KDP and the MDTFANS
grant-financed KDP. Last, MDTF and government will agree on an appropriate regime o f sanctions
for cases where corruption i s discovered.


                                  PARTXI-RESULTSSUMMARY

Results from this twenty-four month program are expectedto be as follows:

    1. Restoration of all basic community-based infrastructure         in the affected areas. Budget
        calculations are based on a comprehensive village infrastructure assessment carried out in
        February/ March 2005. This covers tertiary roads, culverts, and bridges; water supplies and
        drainage; village school buildings, community assembly halls, and village offices; and local
        market places;
    2. Comprehensive village training programs for at least 1,000 villages in village level financial
        management, procurement, community infrastructure assessments, sanitation, and medium-
        term development planning.
    3.  Approximately 150,000 man-days of minimumwage labor;
    4. Recapitalizationo f approximately 4,000 -6,000 micro-enterprises among the very poor.


                                                   30

KDP will also provide another important short-term benefit. Because it has a pre-existing delivery
structure inplace, it will be able to start disbursing funds to a large number of Acehnese communities
-atleast1,000-assoonastheyareapprovedforfunding.TheGovernmenthasalreadyauthorizeda
special Aceh reconstruction manual for KDP that expands the range of eligible activities and
compresses the planning cycle. The planning and disbursement structure can begin to disburse funds
directly to villages as soon as they are releasedfrom the budget




                                                     31


Aanex J:


Y
m(I
I:




                                                  1'      1




       ' I
         ,
         I

         I                                     rQ)
         I

         I




        .....................................
         ,
                                                    c
         0
         ,                                             ,
                                                         I
         I
         : aw
         I




         '
         :::                  e,!!5                           m
         4                  'jso o

                                                             II).
                                                          I

                            a n                             6
         a

    n

1




U




     *

