Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18893
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
(LOAN 2723-CHA / CREDIT 1713-CHA)
January 29, 1999
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB)
At the time of appraisal: US$1 = RMi  3.20
At the time of project completion mission: US$1 = RMB 8.27
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPM              -      Chinese Academv of Preventive Medicine
CMS               -      Cooperative Medical Svstem
DPT               -      Diptheria-Pertussis-Tetanus Associated Vaccine
EF                -      Engineering Firm
EPI               -      Expanded Program on Immunization
EPS               -      Epidemic Prevention Station
FLO               -      Foreign Loan Office
GMP               -      Good Manufacturing Practices
HIV               -      Human lmmunodeficiencv Virus
ICR               -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA               -      International Development Association
MCH               -      Maternal and Child Healtl
MOF               -      Ministry of Finance
MOH               -      Ministrv of Health
NCD               -      Non-Communicablc Discasc
OPV               -      Oral Poliomvelitis Vaccine
PHC               -      Primarv Health Carc
SAR               -       Staff Appraisal Report
SDR               -       Special Drawing Right
STD               -      Sexuallv Transmitted Disease
TT                -      Tetanus Toxoid
UNICEF            -      United Nations Children's Fund
VPO               -      Vaccine Project Office
WHO               -      World Health Organization
Vice President                    Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director                 Yukon Huang, EACCQ
Sector Manager                    Maureen Law, EASHN
Task Manager                      Herbert Boehm, EASHN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
LOAN 2723-CHA CREDIT 1713-CHA
CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................... ,   . ... .
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................                                   ......
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT................................... .     ..1...........
A. Background        ....I
B. Project Objectives...................           3....        :3
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                         .4
D. Implementauon Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project            .6
E. Project Sustainabilit                               .9
F. Perfornance .12
G. Assessment of Outcome .16
H. Future Operation .17
1. Kev Lessons Learned .18
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                   . . . 21
Table l: Summarv of Assessments .21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .22
Table 3: Project Timetable .24
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursement: Curnulative Estimate and Actual .24
Table 5:  Studies Included in Project .24
Table 6a: Project Costs (US$) .25
Table 6b: Project Costs (RMB) .25
Table 6c: Project Financing .25
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants .26
Table 8:   Complianece with Operational Manual Statements .26
Table 9a:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Actual Staff Weeks).                          27
Table 9b:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Actual US$) .27
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions .28
ANNEX A:    BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THEI:    ........................................... 29
Part I:    Rural Health and Other Non-Vaccine Production Components  .     .29
Part 11:  Vaccine Production Component           ..32
Part HI:  Bonower's Comments on Bank's ICR            ..37
Map No. IBRD 29543
This document has a restricted distribution -and may -be used by recipients oaly in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise. be disclosed without
World Banlc authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
LOAN 2723-CHA / CREDIT 1713-CHA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Health and Preventive
Medicine Project in China, for which Loan 2723-CHA in the amount of US$15.0 million, and
Credit 1713-CHA in the amount of SDR 57.2 million (US$65.0 million equivalent) were
approved on June 19, 1986 and made effective on May 26, 1987. The loan and credit were
closed on June 30, 1996. Both were fully disbursed. The last disbursement took place on
October 10, 1996. An associated Grant from Rotary International in the amount of US$15.0
million, which was administered by the Bank, closed on June 30, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Herbert Boehm and David Dunlop, Consultants, with assistance
by Darren Dorkin, Operations Analyst, in the Health, Nutrition, and Population Sector Unit of the
East Asia and Pacific Region. It was reviewed by Alan Ruby, Acting Sector Manager, Jagadish
Upadhvay, Senior Operations Officer, and Janet Hohnen, Senior Public Health Specialist,
EASHN, and by Yukon Huang, Country Director, China. The Borrower's contribution is
included as Annex A to the report.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during discussions between the Bank and the
Ministry of Health in 1993 for the rural health and other non-vaccine production components of
the project. However, the Bank and the Ministry of Health agreed to postpone completion of the
ICR until the ongoing work under the vaccine production component was completed. A project
completion workshop was held in Beijing in April 1998. The ICR is based on materials in the
project file, including extensive summary and analyses prepared by the Borrower and the project
teams, and comments by members of Bank task teams, the United Nations Children's Fund
(UNICEF), and the World Health Organization (WHO).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE NIEDICINE PROJECT
LOAN 2723-CHA / CREDIT 1713-CHA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I .    The Bank began working with China on health issues with the launching of the rural health
and medical education mission in 1982. That mission led to a sector study in 1984, China: The
Health Sector, and formed the basis of a sector lending program starting with the Rural Health
and Medical Education Project (Health L Cr. 1472-CHA), approved by the World Bank Board on
May 3, 1984. The Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project (Health II) extended the work
begun through the first health project. A project brief was presented to the Bank in July 1984,
and the project was appraised in July 1985 and approved by the Board in June 1986.
2.    The 1984 health sector report also provided the basis for crafting the design of Health II
whose objective was to strengthen and expand the efforts of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to: (i)
improve rural health care; (ii) improve the efficiency, coverage, and quality of the national
immunization program for children; (iii) initiate improved drug quality control; and (iv) develop
new communicable and chronic disease preventive strategies and health care financing systems in
rural areas. To address this set of objectives, which primarily focused on the health of the rural
poor, Health II was designed with four components: (i) rural health care deliverv improvement;
(ii) vaccine production improvement; (iii) drug qualitv control improvement; and (iv) operational
research in disease surveillance and disease prevention especially for non-communicable diseases
(NCDs), along with testing new approaches in rural health insurance.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen and expand the Ministry of
Health's continued efforts to improve rural health care; (b) improve the efficiency, coverage and
quality of the national immunization program for children; (c) initiate improved drug quality
control; and (d) develop new communicable and chronic disease prevention strategies and health
care financing systems in rural areas.
4.    To accomplish these objectives, the project included four main components: (a) Rural
Health -- expansion and qualitative improvement of preventive and curative health services in the
poorer rural counties of five provinces, and strengthening of the disease monitoring and control



iii
activities and immunization delivery and management of the epidemic prevention stations in these
and three additional provinces; (b) Vaccine Production - improvement in the coverage and cost
effectiveness of the national immunization program against the main childhood diseases through
construction and rehabilitation of three national centers for the production of essential vaccines
meeting international quality standards; (c) Drug Quality Control - improvement of the quality
control of drugs used; and (d) Operational Research - undertaking research to (i) strengthen the
capacity of the National Center for Preventive Medicine for disease surveillance, and (ii) test new
approaches to rural health insurance.
Implementation and Results
5     The project made significant contnrbutions in the area of rural health and disease control,
but expenrenced severe problems and delavs in the development of vaccines and the construction
of the production facilities. Within the Rural Health Care Delivery Component, a number of
health facilities, including hospitals, village clinics, maternal and child health (MCH) stations,
epidemic prevention stations (EPSs) and other training and administrative blocks, were built and
equipped, mainly in the rural areas of five provinces: Gansu, Hubei, Jilin, Sichuan, and Ningxia
Hui. The civil works were generally completed within the specified time and according to the
budget estimates contained in the staff appraisal report (SAR). Preventive service delivery of the
provincial and municipal EPSs was also strengthened in these five provinces as well as in the
provinces of Heilongjiang, Jiangxi, and Shandong through training and by disease control and
monitoring.
6.    The Drug Quality Control Component also achieved its envisioned objectives of more
skilled personnel due to improved training and better equipment for use in drug efficacy and
quality testing.  These improvements also contributed to the 1995 revision of the Chinese
pharmacopoeia, as the results of improved testing were incorporated into the document.
However, the project did not address the weaknesses of the national control authority, especially
insofar as its authority for drug qualitv and its regulatorv enforcement capability are concerned.
7     The Operational Research Component assisted the Chinese Academy of Preventive
Medicine (CAPM) in two objectives: extension of its disease surveillance system, and increased
capacity to develop disease prevention strategies. The Academy launched the first of many
investigations into the health impacts of smoking in China and contributed to assessing how
various health education campaigns can be effectively designed to reduce smoking, especially
among youth. This component also included a successful rural health insurance experiment which
provided the Chinese govemment with experience and knowledge on the design of health
financing mechanisms.
8.    Finally, the project enabled the Government of China and other developing countries,
because of the publicity of the project's implementation difficulties, to learn about the intricacies
of development of high technology vaccine production.  Three vaccine plants have been
constructed: an oral polio vaccine (OPV) plant in Kunming, and two multi-vaccine production
plants, in Shanghai and Lanzhou, designed to produce diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DPT),
measles, and tetanus toxoid (TT) vaccines. The plants will begin to produce vaccines as soon as
the validation of plant production processes and testing at normal production capacity levels are



iv
completed. One year after the start of operation, the plants' output will be expected to meet the
guidelines for vaccine production established by WHO. Although the component has experienced
many frustrations in contracting with intemational vaccine manufacturers, significant cost
increases over that estimated in the SAR, and difficulties in production process development for
some vaccines, the three plants have been constructed and equipped, and are now awaiting full
production testing.
Issues
9.    While the rural health and other non-vaccine production components had very favorable
results, critical examination of implementation problems indicated a number of shortcomings.
These shortcomings, primarily caused by health policy changes affecting the support to preventive
and curative health care delivery, were outlined in the Borrower s project completion report, and
included:
(a) inadequacy of recurrent cost for: (i) the EPSs at the provincial and county level; and
(ii) the provincial (health equipment) maintenance centers and county MCH stations,
contributing to lowered personnel productivity in the immunization program, lower
quality services than the public's willingness to pay via direct user charges, and lower
than expected utilization;
(b) lack of training materials for local staff based on the new primary health care (PHC)
policies and changing pattern of health problems toward chronic diseases; and
(c) insufficiency of implementation flexibility from one province and county to another,
ignoring local differences in facility and service need or demand, and leading to
relatively poor resource allocation from one assisted locality to another.
10.   Although difficult to quantifv, these factors mav have contributed to lower health status
and service use improvements than orizinally expected from the project's investments. The lack
of project implementation flexibility, however, provided a learning experience for Chinese officials
which contributed to strengthened provincial and lower level health planning and implementation
in the World Bank supported Integrated Regional Health Development Project (Health III; Cr.
2009-CHA), which became effective in January 1990.
l1.   While the other project components were implemented with little difficulty, except as
noted above, the vaccine production component was fraught with imnplementation problems from
the beginning. Because of its highly complex technical requirements and long implementation
delays, by 1992/3 the World Bank and MOH separated this component from the rest of the
project for purposes of supervision and management. This separation inevitably reduced the
project design linkages conceptualized at the start of project development. In addition, project
closing, originally planned for June 1992, had to be extended three times for a total period of four
years, to December 31, 1997.
12.   Because of the Bank's and the Borrower's inadequate technical knowledge in producing
vaccines in sophisticated facilities, the component was not properly designed, contracted, or



v
managed at the outset. The Borrower and the Bank therefore obtained international expertise to
facilitate the managing of the implementation process. Additional financing was obtained from
the Rotary Foundation of Rotary International in the amount of US$15.0 million.  The
international group contracted from the Netherlands. after a nearly four year delay, experienced
project financing problems due to a lack of adequate finds in the original design of the project,
exchange rate fluctuations and domestic inflation.  That difficulty sparked technical and
managerial disputes between the Government of China and the contracting group. In spite of
these difficulties, the plants have reached the next stage where production processes must be
finally validated, full production testing is required, product quality must meet WHO guidelines,
and production process must adhere to European good manufacturing practices (GMP) standards.
Key Lessons Learned
13.   The major key lessons learned from the project are:
Rural Health and. Other Non-Vaccine Production Components
(a) Particular attention should be paid to finding solutions to the common problem of
inadequate recurrent costs in the design and implementation of "low-cost" rural health
care projects.
(b) As an integral aspect of the project preparation, the project monitoring and evaluation
component should be designed and guidelines formulated as to how it will be
implemented.
Vaccine Production Component
(a) Vaccine production is a hiahly sophisticated technical undertaking, for which the Bank
has insufficient expertise in design or supervision.  Further, production process
development and up-scaling to large production volumes are difficult tasks that would
pose daunting challenges to even the largest and most highly specialized firms in the
industry.
(b) Building three production plants of this size and complexity simultaneously should
have been avoided.  Rather, start with one and employ lessons learned for
dissemination and application elsewhere.
(c) Selected turnkey contractors should have successfully developed similar projects in the
past. Also, envisioned production processes should be successfully tested in another
location and the contractor should have firsthand knowledge of how to transfer that
technology to the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower should ensure that adequate technical and managerial staff are available
to monitor project implementation, and if necessary should be willing to hire
internationally qualified personnel to do the work. Involvement of WHO experts
should be sought throughout the design and implementation phases of the project.



vi
(e) Since a vaccine production project is not a community health project, but rather an
industrial project, its feasibility should be assessed according to normal financial and
economic methods of project appraisal prior to making a financial commitment.
(f) Before starting a major vaccine project, a national strategic plan for viable vaccine
production needs to be developed, and the national drug control authority should be
strengthened to ensure drug quality and safetv.



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
LOAN 2723-CHA / CREDIT 1713-CHA
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
Macro Economic Performance and Policy Framework
I.    Since the introduction of economic reforms in 1978 designed to move the country from a
command to a market driven economv, China has undergone one of the most rapid increases in
economic growth ever experienced. During this twenty-year period, per capita income has
increased more than fourfold at an average annual rate of 7. 1%, as individual responsibility,
especially in the agricultural sector, has been fostered. As this unprecedented growth has been
occurring, new challenges have emerged, with the rapid move from a predominately agrarian
society to an urban, industrial one. To sustain the progress into the future, further reforms have
been recently announced to strengthen the financial sector, extend the reforms to state-owned
enterprises, and ease the social dislocation of prior and anticipated reforms by ensuring social
protection through pension, housing and health financing reform.
2.    At the same time China has been undergoing its rapid economic transformation, the health
status gains achieved since independence have slowed. It appears, for example, that under-five
mortality trends might have leveled off since the early 1980s at about 45 per thousand live births.
The health status gains have generallv been attributed to the implementation of priority public
health interventions, along with improved food security and nutrition, and by rising income.
3     At the same time, the epidemiological transition is fully underway. Communicable health
problems such as immunizable childhood diseases. e.g., measles, and controlling endemic
infections have largely been mitigated. Today, non-communicable problems, e.g., cancer and
heart disease, in part due to an increase in smoking and other life style changes, have emerged as
health challenges for the new millennium.
4.    Finally, rapid increases in economic growth since the introduction of market reforms in
agriculture have contributed to an increasing inequity in the delivery and financing of health care
services, as many of the nation's poorest cannot afford critical health services under the present
fee-for-service system. These issues were emerging as Health 1I was being designed. Rural areas
were placed in jeopardy as the financial support to preventive and curative health care delivery
was undermined by the dismantling of the rural cooperative medical systems (CMSs) without
replacing that support with alternatives. Further, rural areas no longer received adequate financial
support for preventive programs which had in the past enabled the country to improve its health
status.



2
Health Sector Policy and Financing Framework
5.    Policy.Framework. China's progress in improving the health status of its people has
been grounded on not only improving the delivery of curative and preventive health care services,
but also on stressing the importance of nutrition, water supply, sanitation, education, and reduced
fertility. This broad approach taken by China, along with the delivery of basic preventive and
curative health care services, forms the basis of China's policy to support primary health care. By
virtue of its success in reducing communicable health problems, including immunizable childhood
diseases, the country's policy basis for this project in the early 1980s was threefold, to:
(a) promote prevention by strengthening anti-epidemic activities, improve the
management of immunization campaigns, and identify preventive measures against
chronic diseases;
(b) strengthen and consolidate rural health services by upgrading country-level health
institutions and major township health centers, and promote "barefoot doctors" to
rural doctors after they have received sufficient training; and
(c) intensify medical research and training of health professionals, improve the technical
and administrative management of health delivery, and improve the quality,
production, distribution and proper use of pharmaceuticals.
6.    To address the second policy focus of strengthening rural health services, China had
launched a national program in the early 1980s called the One-Third County Upgrading Program.
This program was to strengthen the four county-level health institutions: (i) general hospitals; (ii)
EPSs; (iii) MCH centers; and (iv) training centers. Further, selected centers were identified to
serve an intermediate referral function between ordinarv centers and county hospitals. To this
end, Health 11 provided continuing assistance to extend this national program to the poorest rural
counties initiallv launched bv the Bank through Health I. In so doing, Health II contributed
toward the implementation of the first two policies enunciated above.
7.    Financing Framework. By the early 1980s, China had significantly altered how health
was previousiy financed. From the 1950s to the late 1970s. the sub-national governmental levels
were a major financier of rural based preventive health services, with the rural CMS providing a
large share of curative health care financing support, especially at the hospital level. Out-of-
pocket payments provided the balance of the financial support required. After the collapse of the
rural medical insurance system in the late 1970s, it was expected that out-of-pocket payments
would fill the gap and provide not only additional financial support to curative health facilities, but
also to preventive programs such as those provided by the EPSs and MCH centers. Thus, as the
Health II Project was undergoing implementation, the sector's financial base of support was
experiencing a major transformation, especially in rural areas.   During the period of
implementation of the rural health and other non-vaccine production components (1986 to 1993),
Government support to the recurrent cost of the sector declined in constant (1993) yuan per
capita from RMB 9.9 to RMB 9.1, or 8%. For two of the major preventive programs, epidemic
prevention and maternal and child health, per capita support fell even more, from RMB 1.82 to
RMB 1.36 (in 1993 yuan terms), a decline of more than 25%. Finally, repeated concern was



3
voiced in project supervision reports and the Borrower's Completion Report for the Rural Health
and Other Non-Vaccine Production Components of the Project (1996), about the lack of
recurrent cost support for preventive (and even curative) services.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The Bank began working with China on health issues with the launching of the rural health
and medical education mission in 1982. That mission led to the sector study in 1984, China: The
Health Sector, and formed the basis of a sector lending program starting with the Rural Health
and Medical Education Project (Health 1), approved by the World Bank Board on May 3, 1984.
The Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project (Health II) extended the work begun by the
first health project. A project bnref for the Health II Project was presented to the Bank in July
1984. It was appraised in July 1985 and approved by the Board in June 1986.
9.    The sector report also provided the basis for crafting the design of Health II whose
objective was "... to strengthen and expand MOH's continued efforts to improve rural health
care, improve the efficiency, coverage and quality of the national immunization program for
children, initiate improved drug quality control, and develop new communicable and chronic
disease preventive strategies and health financing systems in rural areas" (pg. 7, SAR). To
address this set of objectives, which primarily focused on the health of the rural poor, Health II
was designed with four components:
(a) Rural health care delivery improvement by: (i) extending access by constructing new
facilities; (ii) addressing service quality by personnel training, and extending the
availability of modern diagnostic equipment in five of some of the poorest provinces in
China; (iii) improving disease monitoring and control and immunization delivery; and
(iv) managing preventive health programs as part of epidemic prevention activities in
three additional provinces, Heilongjiang, Jiangxi, and Shandong.
(b) Vaccine production improvement via the rehabilitation and construction of facilities
capable of producing essential childhood vaccines according to international quality
standards in a cost-effective manner;
(c) Drug quality control improvement by personnel training, new facilities, and using up-
to-date testing methods; and
(d) Operational research in disease surveillance and disease prevention by the Chinese
Academy for Preventive Medicine (especially for NCDs) and by testing new
approaches in rural health insurance.
10.   Under Health 1, 46 rural counties were assisted, and through Health II, an additional 50
counties in five of the poorest provinces were supported. The vaccine production component was
viewed at the time of project identification and design as a logical extension of supporting health
status gains by improving the quality of childhood immunizations and extending coverage. The
other two project components were viewed as vital to the long-term financial and service quality



4
sustainability of the health sector. Finally, the operational research sub-component was designed
to test strategies for changing the pattern of disease by piloting various preventive approaches to
the emerging rapid growth of chronic health problems.
11.   The scope of the vaccine production component at the time of project design was to:
(a) establish a new production center for oral poliomyelitis vaccine (OPV) in Kunming,
Yunnan Province with an annual production capacity of 100 million doses of liquid
trivalent vaccine;
(b) establish two new production centers for essential vaccines, including diphtheria-
pertussis-tetanus (DPT), TT, and freeze-dried measles vaccine in Shanghai and
Lanzhou, Gansu Province, each with an annual production capacity of 100 million
doses of DPT, 40 million doses of TT, and 20 million doses of measles vaccine; and
(c) rehabilitate quality control laboratories in each of the three sites.
12.   This component was to facilitate China's efforts to fully immunize its children in a cost-
effective manner and to provide the country with internationally recognized quality vaccine
production facilities.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
13.   The investments undertaken in the rural health development component were consistent
with the dominant policy objectives at the national and provincial level. The investment programs
were successfully carried out. In addition, the project succeeded in expanding preventive health
care service delivery along with improved MCH services and delivering basic health services in
rural areas in the project provinces. However, lack of funding for recurrent costs at the local level
prevented the project from fully achieving the originaliv expected objectives. In contrast, the
training sub-component exceeded the project's original expected targets.
14.   The drug quality control component met its project objectives by initiating many training
and research efforts at institutional levels to improve the quality and safety of domestic and
imported pharmaceuticals. However, the project design should have addressed the weaknesses of
the national drug control authority, which has the mandate of developing appropriate policies and
enforcing rules and regulations concerning drug quality and safety. In particular, improving the
agency's deficit in enforcing GMP standards in the country could have been of substantial value to
this project as well as for other pharmaceutical projects in China. The operational research
component also met its objectives by providing financial support to CAPM, which enabled it to
expand its capacity to conduct epidemiological research and improve its collaboration with other
government agencies to formulate health related policies and improve its public information
function.
15.   In physical terms, the vaccine production component will have met the project objectives
when full vaccine production commences. At present, the three plants are close to physical



5
completion with final validation of the plant systems and their equipment expected by end 1999.
Before normal production can start, however, completion of process development for measles and
DPT, trial production, process validation, GMP training of new staff, work process, standard
operating procedures completion, work process training, and then managing each of the facilities
as an integrated operation, remain to be accomplished. Barring unforeseen difficulties, all five
vaccines should be in licensed production by the end of 1999 or early 2000.
16.   The three new facilities represent state-or-the-art technology in the field of vaccine
production. These extremely complex plants have been well designed and house some of the
world's most advanced systems and equipment in the field. It is expected that the production
targets for all five types of vaccine can be met. Due to the size of the facilities and the
sophistication of the systems and machinery, production expansion should be achievable
substantially above the design capacities. It is also expected that the quality of the vaccines will
meet international standards for potency and safety as established by WHO guidelines and that the
operation of the facilities will be in accordance with European GMP.
17.   This component was the first vaccine production project financed by the World Bank. It
is also by far the largest, most complex and most expensive project in the field of biological
production in China. In terms of overall production volume (420 million doses of vaccine) and
size of the facilities, it most likely is the largest project of this type in the world. Its complexity in
terms of technology and management would undoubtedly be a daunting challenge to even the
most experienced Western pharmaceutical companies. It is therefore in hindsight of little surprise
that the project design, procurement arrangements as well as implementation and funding
requirements often exceeded both the domestic and professional, managerial, and financial
resources throughout the project implementation period.
18.   In terms of financial objectives, i.e., yielding significant improvement in the cost
effectiveness of the national childhood immunization program, the project upon completion may
not exhibit the same positive results commensurate with its physical achievements. While it was
always recognized that the new vaccine products would be more costly than those currently
produced. as they are of higher quality and safetv, preliminary cost studies prepared by the
Medical Technology Assessment Research Center of Shanghai Medical University indicate that
the cost of vaccines would be substantially above the cost of the current production.  It is
essential that the cost study be revised as soon as actual data becomes available during the trial
production phase, and that conceptual problems concerning the analysis be resolved as soon as
possible. Moreover, MOH has agreed to carry out a study to assess the cost savings effects
resulting from the improved-quality vaccines as well as from better product packaging, freeze-
drying, and longer shelf life. It is, however, not expected that these effects will fully offset the
substantially increased cost for the new products.
19.   Of great concern to the Government is the possibility that the full cost of the new vaccine
products may exceed the UNICEF price level. The Government has expressed interest in
requesting assistance from U'NICEF experts to assist in cost accounting and analysis. Moreover,
UNICEF may also help advocate the policy debate for additional funding needed to assure that
effective immunization levels are maintained in China.



6
D. IPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.   Annex tables to this report provide quantitative information regarding the implementation
record of the entire project, including supervision support, disbursement, and compliance with
project covenants. Overall, all project components, with the exception of the vaccine production
component, were successfully impiemented within the original timeframne, and in accordance with
project design and objectives. When the vaccine production component suffered from significant
impikmentation problems. and attainment of development objectives was a concern, the project
received "Unsatisfactory" ratings to highlight these issues. Regarding the rural health and non-
vaccine production components, the Foreign Loan Office (FLO) within MOH drafted a project
completion report and submitted it to the World Bank in 1992 (see Annex A). It reported that
civil construction had been completed as planned, personnel recruitment and training surpassed
the project targets, and equipment procurement had been 80% completed by June 30, 1992, the
original project completion date.
Implementation of the Rural Health and Other Non-Vaccine Production Components
21.   The issues encountered during the implementation of these components were outlined in
the Borrower's project completion report and are summarized below:
(a) lack of funding for recurrent cost for: (i) EPSs at the provincial and county level; (ii)
provincial (health equipment) maintenance centers and county MCH centers,
contributing to low personnel productivity in the immunization program, lower quality
services than the public's willingness to pay, via direct user charges, and lower than
expected utilization; and
(b) shortage of training materials for local level staff based on the new PHC health policies
and changing pattern of health problems toward chronic diseases, and
(c) Insufficient implementation flexibility from one province and county to another,
ignoring local differences in facility and service need or demand, and leading to
relatively poor resource allocation from one assisted locality to another.
22.   These factors contributed to lower health status and service use improvements than was
originally expected from the project's investments. The lack of project implementation flexibility,
however, increased the desire of Chinese officials operating at the provincial level and below to
achieve greater decision making flexibility and thereby devolve greater autonomy to sub-national
levels of government. This experience was an important lesson learned by local officials and
helped facilitate the implementation of the Health III Project, which was based on local decision
making.
23.   From available documentation, it appears that the drug control and operational research
components were implemented without major problems.  The construction and equipment
required to implement these components were procured without major difficulty and related
program development was implemented in a timely manner.



7
Implementation of the Vaccine Production Component
24.   While other project components were implemented without major difficulty, except as
noted above, the vaccine production component has been fraught with implementation difficulties
from the beginning. Because of its significant technical requirements and lengthy delays in project
implementation, by 1992/3 both the World Bank and MOH effectively split off this component
from the rest of the project for purposes of supervision and management. This reduced the
project design linkages conceptualized at the start of project development.
25.   Procurement and Contracting. Both the Bank and MOH agreed at appraisal to have
the component implemented as a turnkey operation by a reputable international vaccine producer.
However, the preparation of a short list of qualified international vaccine producers led to a
dispute regarding the criteria used to prequalify firms.  Further, the task of preparing very
technically complex bidding documents created unforeseen delays within the Chinese import
agency responsible for expediting the bidding process. Negotiations with the lowest evaluated
bidder on the first round became protracted and eventually collapsed in late 1988 over price, a
number of technical issues, and conflicts regarding the role of each party in a turnkey contractual
arrangement.
26.   A revised approach to contracting this component was formulated by selecting an
engineering firm which would be associated with an experienced vaccine producer. The Bank
approved this approach in January 1989. After a year, a contract was signed in 1990 with a
Dutch consortium, comprised of an engineering firm (EF) as the leading partner which designed
and implemented the construction of the vaccine production facilities, a vaccine production
institute with the technical knowledge required to develop the vaccine production processes, and
a supplier for bioreactor equipment. The vaccines were supposed to be developed in a "joint
development program" with Chinese vaccine experts.
27.   Financing. As the contracting difficulties were ending in 1990, it was learned there were
insufficient funds from the World Bank project to fully finance this component as envisioned
during appraisal. This problem was mitigated in part by a grant from the Rotary Foundation of
Rotary Intemational which provided US$15.0 million for the OPV plant facility in Kunming. But
as the contract between the Dutch consortium was beginning full implementation in 1992, a
further financing gap of about US$50 million emerged after non-used World Bank project funds
had been reallocated to this component from other project components. This gap was due to
several factors: (i) devaluation of China's currency (RMB); (ii) local inflation; (iii) higher than
expected facility equipment prices; and (iv) low estimates of the component cost prior to project
approval.
28.   Between the date of Loan/Credit effectiveness in 1987 and contract signing in 1990, the
RMB devalued by 40%, and by full project implementation in 1992, the RMB had devalued by an
additional 10% from 1990, or a total devaluation of nearly 55% from 1987 to 1992. The
devaluation, in conjunction with international price increases of the vaccine production equipment
required by the plants, delayed equipment procurement. Local inflation followed the currency
devaluation by about a year and also increased the local cost of constructing plant buildings.
Between 1987 and 1990, domestic prices as measured by the GDP deflator, increased by 29% and



8
by 1992 the increase from 1987 was nearly 49%. These price increases for international and
locally procured items could account for a large share of the cost increase of the component.
29.   An additional factor possibly at work in this large procurement was due to the typical
bidding strategy employed by international firms seeking to obtain a major government contract.
As the turnkey bids by a short list of suppliers were used to estimate the cost of this project
component, which were based on the usual practice of "low ball" bidding, this likely led to lower
than true cost estimates of the project component. Such bidding tactics are often employed by
firms when asked to bid on high technology content projects where the production processes have
not yet been developed or where the implementation of the process is not well understood in the
new site. The delays in implementation caused by the financing problem created by a combination
of the above mentioned factors further delayed project implementation, and caused increasingly
strained relationships between the Dutch consortium. MOH, and the three Chinese vaccine
institutes.
30.   The financing  problem  was eventually  addressed  by obtaining  a supplemental
appropriation from the Chinese government of about US$44 million in equal parts of local
currency and foreign exchange and about US$5 million from the Dutch bilateral assistance
program. Also, the strained relationships were resolved in September 1994 in part by the
formulation of a Mid-Term Project Modification Plan and a detailed Action Plan.  These
documents included the financial commitments of both the Chinese and Dutch governments, and
modifications to the engineering contract which altered original onerous guarantees and lowered
know-how fees, without reducing vaccine quality below European GWM standards. Finally, the
Vaccine Project Offices (VPOs) at the MOH and institute levels were also strengthened and the
role of the EF redefined to shift greater implementation authority to the institutes. The Bank
approved these documents in September 1994.
31.   Production Process Development. By early 1995, additional problems regarding
payment disputes, engineering drawing delays, supervision inadequacies, and lack of progress in
production process development again had strained relationships between the implementing
parties. The Bank recommended a neutral assessment by an independent expert of the status of
production process development to resolve this aspect of the strained relationship. The results of
this assessment were used by the Chinese Government to release the EF from its responsibility to
develop a new DPT production process and to use an improved Chinese process for DPT, and an
available roller-bottle rather than an unproven microcarrier technology for measles vaccine.
These production decisions were to be implemented according to the standards promulgated by
WHO and European GMP guidelines, thus continuing to ensure the possibility that output from
these facilities could be internationally marketed after Chinese immunization requirements had
been met. The Government and the EF settled all of their claims regarding this decision in an
amicable manner.
32.   In spite of the aforementioned implementation difficulties, it is heartening to learn that the
facilities have virtually completed construction and equipment installation. This phase was fully
completed at all three sites by the end of 1998. An additional year planned to fully test how the
vaccine production processes will work at fill capacity. Bank and Government officials are
cautiously optimistic that full production will commence in late 1999 or early 2000.



9
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   Sustainability must be addressed from at least two dimensions: financial sustainability of
the investments supported by the project; and institutional sustainability of the function or service
created by the investment. Further, for this project, an assessment of sustainability must be
disaggregated according to the various project components.
34.   Vaccine Production. First, during full operation, the vaccine production institutes will
face serious recurrent financial issues. As they have received considerable state investment
funding, and since the immunization program for which they were originally built continues to be
a policy pnrofity, the institutes through the medium-term will be able to garner financial resources
from the state as may be required. At present, they are not viewed as a state enterprise soon to be
privatized. However, the cost of continuing to maintain GNP production standards will be
daunting, especially as the production processes for DPT, measles, and OPV have not yet been
fully tested in any plant.
35.   The three plants were initially incorporated into the project to help China realize its
objective of fully immunizing its children against the basic package of childhood communicable
diseases. During the project's design phase, an economic assessment'/ was conducted of the
choice between locally producing or importing vaccines required to reach its immunization target.
That report found that domestic production of vaccines for the Expanded Program on
Immunization (EPI) would likely be about half as costly per dose as imported vaccine. These
estimates were based on assumptions about the level of output envisioned by the new plants, the
capital cost of developing the new production capacity, and the recurrent cost of producing the
vaccines, once the new production facilities were in place. Thus, based on estimates of the
investment cost of the vaccine plants in 1985, the decision was made to include the three plants in
Health 11
36.   However, the large cost overruns of the three plants increased the original investment cost
from US$40.6 million to over US$90 million in 1985 dollars. This estimate does not include a fill
accounting of the costs yet to be incurred, as the production processes have not yet been verified,
production tested, or reviewed by WHO. This situation raises serious concerns about the future
cost of vaccines. A revised assessment of this past decision must also take into consideration
several other aspects, including:
(a) the present price of vaccines from UNICEF or other suppliers;
1 F. Orivel, "Economic Analysis of Vaccine Production: Choice Between Domestic Production and Import of Vaccines in
China", World Bank Consultant Report or the Preparation of the Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Praject,
(Washington D.C.: World Bank, August 1985).



10
(b) the envisioned production costs of the vaccines in the three new plants when they
become operational;
(c) whether the Chinese Government will close the existing plants that produce vaccines
for the EPI;
(d) the likely change of domestic and international demand for EPI vaccines over the next
two decades;
(e) the examination of whether the global production capacity existing in 1985 would have
been able to fully respond to the import requirements of China at that time without an
increase in global prices; and
(f) an assessment of the prospect that China will be able to attain and maintain GMP
production standards, and thereby obtain and sustain WHO certification of its quality
standards, so that the plants might compete on the international market for vaccine
production.
37.   Finally, it may be instructive to take a broader perspective on the economic feasibility of
this project component. Without quantitative information to conduct a formal assessment, as
suggested above, it may still be instructive to view this investment in terms of the transfer of
technology from international producers of pharmaceutical products, particularly in terms of the
potential of producing new biotechnological products in the future. When this project component
was under initial consideration for inclusion in 1985, a number of international pharmaceutical
firms were approached for their interest in inclusion on the turnkey short list. One firm expressed
interest in the project, not because they wanted to develop vaccine plants, but because they saw it
as the vehicle for becoming involved in producing high-tech biological products in China for
domestic and international markets. Several others were intrigued by the same possibility. Part of
the difficult discussions between the finallv chosen contractor consortium and Chinese officials
was over the issue of technology choice and ultimate transfer to China of the production
processes. The contractor consortium saw considerable economic possibilities in the growing
biotechnology product area from successfully refining microcarrier technology for the large scale
production of measles vaccine. This project would have provided the vehicle for supporting this
research work without bearing the fill cost of it. The Chinese government and the Dutch
consortium have agreed to share the results of the microcarrier development undertaken by this
project, even though they may not be using it in the two plants where measles is intended to be
produced.
38.   The Kunming facility is the most financially at risk vaccine production institute, as it will
enter full production of liquid polio vaccine (OPV) at a time when the country will have
effectively eradicated the disease. Thus, it will serve the domestic requirements for vaccine during
the eradication maintenance phase for about five years until 2005. Therefore, plans should be
initiated soon as to how to modify the production process with attendant additional costs to
produce other vaccines or other pharmaceutical products for the domestic market and possible
export.



11
39.   Vaccine Production Institutional Sustainability. One of the sustainability issues facing
Chinese officials is whether these vaccine institutes, once completed, will be able to retain the
trained staff necessary to maintain GMP production standards in a rapidly changing economy.
This is especially true where pnvatization is one of the dominant economic poiicy objectives for
the future evolution of the country. MOH is aware of the potential problems it might face in this
regard, and has already had to replace some officials who received training via the project and left
their institute for more lucrative positions elsewhere. MOH is working to establish institutional
approaches consistent with the policy of alternative ownership, which may reduce the likelihood
that trained staff would leave in the future.
40.   Sustainability of the Rural Health Component. Expanding preventive health care
service delivery, along with improving MCH services and delivering basic health services in rural
areas of the country, comprised the second largest component of financial support from the Bank
through the project2". This component has demonstrated the benefits of improved services and
better management, however, the costs of these improvements, including recurrent expenditures,
have been significantly higher than in the non-project areas. The sustainability and replicability of
these programs would clearly depend upon increased budgetary allocations by the government at
all levels. While the project did suffer from implementation delays and insufficient counterpart
funding and recurrent cost support, additional costs for these areas are expected to be well within
the reach of government budgets, especially considering the currently low level of budgetary
allocations for health services in China compared to most other countries. This has been well
recognized in recent years, and demonstrated by 1997 State Council directives to increase
budgetary allocations for public and preventive health services. Sustainability of this program
should also be viewed from the utilization of services. It was clear in the project areas that the
poorer families had significantly lower utilization of health facilities. This will continue to be a
concern until the health financing system is reformed to improve access for the poorer families
41.   In terms of institutional sustainability of the rural health care system, the training sub-
component exceeded its expected targets. But no assessment was conducted of the quality of the
training or its impact on the quality of service delivery or on indicators of management
performance.
42.   Drug Quality Control Component.  Institutes in Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin, and
medical universities in Beijing, West China, and Zhejiang were provided assistance under the
project. The Government's Project Completion Report reported that a number of persons had
been trained for field inspectors, administrators, and technical positions within the field of drug
quality control. In addition, about 13 persons had obtained overseas training for high level
research, technical and supervisory tasks. In addition, a number of research and methodological
papers were written and published in Chinese technical journals by high level staff of each institute
receiving support, which contributed to the dissemination of the new drug quality control methods
throughout the country. Finally, this project component has contributed to improving the periodic
2 This component was initially envisioned as the largest component from a cost perspective, over USS75 million, with
Chinese goveaninet fmancing amotmting to over USS53 million and the World Bank contributing over USS22 million.



12
revisions of the Chinese Pharmacopoeia, the nationally used reference document for
pharmaceutical products.
43.   According to the director of one institute, there was an occasional problem of recurrent
cost support from the Government, but the institute adjusted to that reality by charging for drug
quality tests conducted by the institute. By virtue of the testing equipment acquired under the
project (US$0.6 million), the institute was in a position to charge fees as they had up-to-date
equipment and trained staff with the know-how to conduct these tests in a professional and
quality-minded manner.
44.   Support to the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine.  Finally, the project
supported institutional development and operational research of the Chinese Academy of
Preventive Medicine in an amount of about US$8 million, with the World Bank's contribution
under Health 1I being about US$1.9 million. This support continued the assistance provided
under Health I and extended the capacity of the institute to conduct epidemiological research,
disseminate its findings, and work with MOH and other Government officials to formulate health
related policy and nationally disseminate the results.
45.   Through the institutional capacity building supported by the project, CAPM evolved from
a traditional public health research institute, financed solely by the Government through MOH,
into an organization whose mission, as defined by the State Council, has expanded from basic
public health research. Its activities now include: (i) training public health professionals; (ii)
providing public health surveillance technical assistance to sub-national entities of government;
(iii) conducting infectious and NCD disease surveillance, (iv) providing technical assistance for
the promulgation of health laws and regulations; and (v) formulating practical approaches for the
dissemination of public health information. Its govemmental financial support has grown and it
has become more active in attracting finds from domestic and international sources.
F. PERFORMANCE
46.   The project was in fact implemented as two projects after the technical and price lessons
were absorbed from the initial unsuccessful effort to engage an international firm to implement the
turnkey approach embodied in the project design. The Bank and MOH were naive at the outset
about how technically complicated it would be to develop large-scale vaccine production facilities
with untested methods of production and GMP-quality standard requirements underlying the task.
47.   These problems contrasted with the rural health care delivery component, which was
designed according to national policy guidelines, and benefited from the lessons learned and
approach taken under Health I. At that time, it was thought that locating health facilities closer to
where people lived would lead to a greater utilization of both preventive and curative services and
subsequently improve indicators of health status. The project did not stress the importance of
project monitoring and evaluation, but in the Borrower's Project Completion Report there were
summarized monitoring and evaluation indicators from the assisted counties suggesting a mixed



13
picture of project outcome in terms of improved health status and perfornmance. However, there
was little thought given to other factors which could have contributed to the changes noted.
BANK PERFORMANCE
Rural Health and Other Non-Vaccine Production Components
48.   The Bank's overall performance during preparation and supervision of the rural health and
other non-vaccine production components was satisfactory, although it is acknowledged that the
Bank might have been more proactive about recurrent cost issues. While various references were
made in supervision mission Aide Memoires regarding the lack of recurrent cost financing for the
preventive rural health sub-components of epidemic disease prevention and MCH, there appears
to have been little dialogue about possible solutions or how the project components could
mitigate its adverse impact. A comprehensive review at mid-term of implementation could have
been a desirable vehicle to address these issues. Such mid-term reviews have been included in all
subsequent Bank financed health projects in China, beginning with Health 111. In addition,
economic oversight or participation on supervision missions should have been strengthened, and
the Bank should have addressed the need to strengthen the national drug regulatory authority as
part of the project.
Vaccine Production Component
49.   The Bank's performance during preparation and implementation of the vaccine production
component was flawed. The Bank recognized during the project preparation stage that it had no
experience in the preparation and supervision of vaccine production projects in China or
elsewhere. It had hoped that its limited experience in industrial projects in China would be of
assistance. However, the Bank was not prepared to recognize the extremely complex, costly and
highly specialized nature of a vaccine production project.
50.   During the post-appraisal mission for Health I in February 1984, discussions were held
between the Bank and MOH about a possible second health project. In the beginning the
Government wished assistance for the strengthening of all seven regional institutes of biological
production, but the Bank felt that resources were too limited for such a comprehensive approach.
In May 1985, the present concept emerged, including building three new facilities for DPT,
measles, and OPV. A WHO sponsored consultant team prepared the investment program,
tentatively estimating it at US$26 million. Subsequent preparation missions increased the estimate
to US$46 million, which was still far too low, given that final component costs amounted to
US$141 million. To overcome the lack of experience with this type of project, the Bank
anticipated assistance in form of a turnkey operation by a major international producer with
appropriate qualifications. This became necessary because only very few top-level consultants
work in this field and companies for proprietary reasons do not provide information unless there is
a significant contractual relationship. It was hoped that such a contractor could prepare
preliminary cost estimates before finalizing the SAR. However, the SAR was issued before such
an arrangement was consummated, thus depriving the project of a realistic cost estimate. The
Bank therefore did not set aside sufficient financing in the Loan and Credit to support the vaccine
production component. However, this was not realized until much later. When the financial gap



14
became apparent, the Bank secured a Grant in the amount of US$15 million from Rotary
Intemational and about US$5 million from the Dutch bilateral assistance program.
51.   The dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower during the preparation and
implementation phases of the vaccine production component was constructive, informative and
professional. The Bank's supervision effort of 22 missions, two of which were carried out after
Loan/Credit closing, was comparatively high. But in light of the experienced problems, this may
have been insufficient, particularly in identifying problems in a timely manner. However, it is
questionable whether additional Bank supervisory resources would have overcome significant
technical and contractual obstacles. The Bank's repeated proposal for the Govemment to retain
under project financing a long-term consultant with international expertise in vaccine plant
construction and vaccine production to assist the VPO and the three vaccine institutes, was
declined. The Bank played an important part in reconciling as honest broker differences between
the project owner and the EF, and initiated the mid-term project restructuring as well as a number
of studies, including the vaccine cost study as part of the Mid-Term Modification Plan, and
several assessment reviews by experts. A Bank mission also traveled to Geneva to meet officials
who could provide funding assistance and expert advice. On several occasions, the Government
specifically requested Bank missions to be fielded to provide assistance.
52.   The Bank and the Borrower benefited substantially from the generous assistance by
UNICEF which made a vaccine production expert available for a period of about ten years for
some of the preparation missions and for almost all of the supervision missions. In addition, the
project also benefited from the advice given by a senior representative of Rotary International
during several supervision missions. During the preparation and supervision period of 14 years,
only three Bank task managers were assigned to the component, providing a large degree of staff
continuity. They had various degrees of medical, epidemiological, and financial expertise.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
53.   Overall, the Borrower's performance during project development and implementation was
satisfactory. The Borrower learned from implementation of Health I how to address World Bank
procurement regulations so that this often vexing problem did not arise, with the exception of the
vaccine production facilities. However, as this procurement was an unusually large and complex
matter, the two sides worked very hard together to deal with the one-of-a-kind problems
presented by this task.
Rural Health and Other Non-Vaccine Production Components
54.   Project investments in health care facilities of poor rural areas were concentrated at the
county rather than at the township or village level. Thus, access to facility based care was
improving at the county level as facility per-capita ratios fell at the county level but rose at the
township and village.  Similarly, greater facility construction occurred in hospitals (and
corresponding equipment procurement) rather than in health centers or related facilities at the
village.



15
55.   The training sub-component was successful in training more personnel than anticipated at
project launch. It focused on technical skill acquisition, rather than on improving the quality of
service delivery.  However, neither focus was explicitly incorporated into a monitoring
framework, thus, little has been learned from the legacy of the training investment. What is
reported however, is that, over the life of the project, there was a systematic reduction in the
numbers of trained paramedics available in the assisted counties, reflecting low pay and lack of
status.
56.   The monitoring of disease pattern change within the project areas was inconclusive, in part
due to a lack of good information regarding health status prior to the project and partly due to
difficulties in determining project attribution. This was due to the monitoring strategy employed
where information was collected at points of service use under the jurisdiction of the local
authorities, rather than from households in the various project localities. Greater attention on the
design and gathering of information is required in future projects.
57.   In spite of the lack of project monitoring of health status change in project areas, the
operational research component provided funds to CAPM for the purpose of: (a) strengthening
capacity to conduct disease surveillance, and (b) testing disease prevention strategies for emerging
public health problems, especially for chronic diseases. No information was reported in the 1992
Borrower's Project Completion Report about these activities or their outcome. However, a
separate Project Component Completion Report was issued by CAPM3/, which demonstrated
considerable institutional capacity strengthening and role expansion from the support of the two
World Bank projects amounting to about US$8 million, nearly US$6 million from Health I and
about US$2 million from Health II over the period 1984 to 1992. The funds from the Health II
Project supported personnel training, technical assistance, program activity support, and
equipment to address the five tasks which it had been assigned by the MOH via the State Council:
(a) conduct research on important public health issues; (b) train provincial level professionals in
public health methods, (c) provide technical assistance to provinces and below levels of
government regarding outbreaks of disease; (d) provide the scientific basis for health laws; and (e)
develop and promote the dissemination of public health information to the Chinese people.
Through these investments, CAPM now has a strong research record with highly qualified
personnel and has demonstrated its importance to the Chinese Government in addressing its five
tasks. Consequently, they are now better able to respond to the needs of the policy makers to
translate epidemiological and other public health research findings into more relevant public health
policy options.
58.   Finally, the rural health insurance experiment was designed and implemented in a timely
and professional manner, with a good degree of technological transfer between the external
consultant group contracted to perform the experiment and Chinese counterparts. This transfer of
health economic research skills was also strengthened at this time by the development of a
network of health economics researchers which received financial and technical assistance from
3. Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, Final Report on the Implernentation of Health I and 11 Proiects, (Beijing: Chinesw
Academy of Preventive Medicine, April 1992).



16
the Economic Development Institute of the World Bank. The findings from this research were
published in the Rural Health Insurance Handbook and have been available to the health policy
researchers and the country's emerging cadre of health economists, and it has positively
influenced the thinking of many involved with formulating health financing policy in China.
Vaccine Production Component
59.   A leading group, headed by the Minister of Health, was established to oversee the
implementation of the project. While the three vaccine institutes had a large degree of autonomy
in project implementation, overall project coordination was carried out in a satisfactory manner by
the VPO established specifically for this purpose. Personnel assigned to the VPO as well as to the
institute level project offices were invariably highly motivated. None of them, however, had been
previously involved in a project of similar dimensions and complexity. This was initially not seen
as a deficiency as the vaccine scientists and production experts were supposed to work under the
Joint Development Program to develop the technological processes in collaboration with the
Dutch vaccine institute, and the engineering firm was supposed to be in charge of the design and
construction of the buildings and the installation of systems and equipment. However, soon after
construction started it was realized that project staff on the side of the project owner needed to be
strengthened, but particularly at the center it was difficult to get additional positions, especially
from the engineering field, for project supervision. Compared to the number of specialists and
skills which would be normally assigned if a project of this size would be implemented in the
private sector, the VPO and the project offices at the three institutes had to handle their tasks with
but a fraction of such resources. That they were, nevertheless, able to ultimately fulfill their
responsibilities, should be stated with admiration.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
60.   The two distinct parts of the project had different outcomes. Overall, the outcome of the
rural and other non-vaccine production components was satisfactory but the vaccine production
component remained deficient. The rural health development component succeeded in achieving
its basic objectives of upgrading the quality of preventive, MCH and basic health services in rural
areas and expanding access. However, recurrent cost deficiencies at the local level prevented the
realization of its fuill potential. Through training and research efforts, the drug quality component
improved the quality and safety of domestic and imported pharmaceuticals. In addition, research
and methodological papers were wfitten and published, which contributed to nationwide
dissemination of the new drug quality control methods, and improvements were made to periodic
revisions of the Chinese Pharmacopoeia, the nationally used reference document for
pharmaceutical products. The operational research component strengthened CAPM's capacity to
conduct epidemiological research and improved its cooperation with other government agencies
to formulate health related policies and augment its public information function. A key outcome
of this component was to successfully evaluate new rural health insurance schemes, which
provided the govemment with experience and knowledge on the design of health financing
mechanisms, and helped contribute toward filling the vacuum left by the demise of the rural CMS.



'7
61.   The vaccine production component had mixed results characterized by substantial
implementation delays and cost overruns. Nevertheless, it would broadly achieve its goal when
full vaccine production commences by the end 1999 or early 2000. Upon completion, China will
have three of the largest, and among the most modem, vaccine production facilities in the world,
which will enable full replacement of its current deficient production capacity in OPV, DPT and
measles, and provide its children with safe and efficacious vaccines. It is expected that these
vaccines will meet WHO standards and that the plant operations will meet European GMP
standards. This would be important for exports since these plants are likely to have excess
capacity.
62.   Another important outcome of the project is the substantial transfer of biotechnology.
Despite extreme difficulties and contract disputes with internationaL contractors, design engineers,
vaccine experts, and equipment suppliers, the hundreds of Chinese officials people involved in the
preparation and the execution of the project have gained invaluable experience in the state-of-the-
art vaccine plant design, construction and operation. In addition, through the Joint Development
Program, Chinese experts have also gained extensive expenrence to work with overseas
counterpart scientist colleagues. These highly trained and motivated scientists and managers
working for the three vaccine institutes are crucial for the operation of the new facilities. The
remaining important challenge for China would be how far the production costs will be
competitive with other local production and international competitors.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
63.   Project implementation succeeded in improving rural heaith infrastructure, equipping
health facilities and training health workers, which improved the quality and delivery of rural
health services. The quality of their fiture operation, including utilization and expansion, would
greatlv depend on how fast local leaders change their priorities toward increased support for
preventive and basic health care by rediscovering their virtues. The main issues are, first, whether
the government will recognize the need to nurture these gains by allocating adequate budgets for
continued public health and basic care and, second, how soon the arrangements would be
established for risk-sharing and for assisting the poorest families to increase their access to these
services. As noted in the Bank's recent health sector study report, CHINA: Issues and Options
in Health Financing, 1996, the government's attention to these critical health areas has been
inadequate, resource allocations have deteriorated, and health gains in some basic areas have
stagnated and may even have reversed. On the other hand, recent government pronouncements
on this subject have provided reassurances that the national mood has been reinvigorated in favor
of investments in these areas.
64.   Building on the experiences of the Health 1I Project, improvement of preventive and basic
health care programs has been included in a number of subsequent Bank financed health projects
in China. The Integrated Regional Health Development Project (Health III; Cr. 2009-CHA), the
Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Care Project (Health VI; Cr. 2655-CHA), the Disease
Prevention Project (Health VII; Cr. 2794-CHA), and the Basic Health Services Project (Health
VIII; Cr. 3075-CHA) have directly benefited from the design and implementation lessons of the



18
Health 1I Project and have progressively made firther improvements.  Combined with
improvement of health services, the Health 1I Project also provided MOH and the five project
provinces with valuable exposure to modem management practices which has greatly benefited
subsequent programs. CAPM has evolved into a large and well-respected institution, comparable
in many respects to the best international institutions involved in health and medical research, and
has become an important partner in many subsequent Bank supported projects.
65.   Efforts to establish experimental health financing mechanisms and alternative delivery
modalities, such as Health Maintenance Organizations and the building of necessary regulatory
structures to ensure performance in line with service quality and equity guidelines, represent areas
where Bank assistance may be helpful for improving the health status and service use of both rural
and urban populations in China.
66.   Given the recent policy guidance by the State Council to privatize much of the state
enterprise structure, it would be well to assess how the Bank, possibly through collaboration with
the International Finance Corporation, could assist China in developing a privatized vaccine
production entity, with potential for producing other essential pharmaceutical items on a
commercial basis. The country may be ripe for exploring alternative ownership arrangements for
many activities within the domain of the health sector. Support for privatizing the vaccine plants
may be a logical first step, along many, to begin implementing the policy guidance of the State
Council within the health sector. However, MOH officials are not fully convinced about this
approach. There are nevertheless already arrangements underway with international
pharmaceutical companies which could accelerate technological transfer and assist in opening
markets for Chinese vaccines overseas.  In addition, an overall viability study for vaccine
production in China would be helpful in determining the future use of the new vaccine facilities in
light of their cost structure and the anticipated changes in global vaccine markets.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
67.   Through the experience gained from implementing this project, the key lessons learned can
be grouped into two categories: Rural Health and Other Non-Vaccine Production, and Vaccine
Production.
Rural Health and Other Non-Vaccine Production:
(a) Pay attention to recurrent cost in the design and implementation of "low-cost" rural
health care projects, especially where there are externalities and public good benefits
accruing therefrom.
(b) Design project monitoring and evaluation frameworks and how they will be
implemented as an integral aspect of the project fornulation phase. The use of the
logical framework as an important design tool would provide immeasurable help in
focusing attention on relevant indicators for regular and periodic managerial
assessment of performance.



19
(c) Develop a research agenda to be financed via the project, which has some possibility
of operational implementation testing and verification during the project's life. The
findings from the rural health insurance experiment conducted during this project have
been widely distributed and are still being utilized - a decade later - in the policy
formulation process to address the problem of health financing.
(d) The funds from this project which supported institutional development in the areas of
drug quality control and preventive medicine have resulted in significant gains to the
health development capacity of the countrv. Where there are similar opportunities the
Bank should assist to the extent possible.
Vaccine Production:
(a) Vaccine production is a highly sophisticated technical undertaking, for which the Bank
has insufficient expertise in design or supervision.  It requires technical expertise
normally only found in the industry, which, for proprietary reasons is not eager to
share with others. Further, process development and up-scaling to large production
volumes is a difficult undertaking and can pose daunting challenges to the largest and
best firms in the industry.
(b) To take on the challenge of building three large-scale production facilities in one
project, without doing the project in phases with the first phase being a pilot
undertaking with one facility, has added additional complexity and stress beyond the
capacity of even the largest pharmaceutical companies. It would therefore have been
desirable to start with one plant which is the least complex (in this case the OPV plant)
and include a second plant in a follow-up project provided there is reasonable progress
on the first.
(c) Ensure turnkey contractors have successfully developed vaccine projects (or other
technicaily complex products) of a similar size as the one contemplated in the project
and the contractor has firsthand knowledge of how to transfer that technology to the
Borrower. In addition, design and construction of vaccine plants should only start
when the development process has been successfully established, tested and
sufficiently scaled up to the anticipated production output.
(d) If the Bank has decided to become involved in similar projects, it should insist, after
careful review of potential local project staff, that the Borrower retain the necessary
expertise from any locality, domestic or internationally, to manage the implementation
of the envisioned undertaking and require the involvement of WHO experts
throughout the design and implementation phases.
(e) Since a vaccine production project is not a community health project, but to a large
degree an industrial project, its feasibility should be assessed according to normal
financial and economic methods of project appraisal prior to making a financing
commitment. Such assessments will encourage realistic discussions about product
pricing, potential markets and possible market changes as well as private sector



20
participation and other relevant economic development policy implications. Various
altemative scenarios could be developed to test the sensitivity of various assumptions
regarding the project's economic feasibility.
(f) Improvements in vaccine production can only be successful if the respective control
authorities are sufficiently strengthened in terms of authority, policy development,
structure, management, and enforcement capabilities. In addition, physical investment
should only commence after a national strategic plan ensuring viable production has
been developed and periodically reassessed. including prioritization of improvements
and investments.



2 1
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Ohjectives         Suhstantial      Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policics
Sector Policies                          /
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development                /
Physical Objectives                      /
Povertv Reduction
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management                                                             V
Privatc Sector Dec%clopmcnt                                                          I
Other (specidN)
B. Project Sustainahility                 Likely              Unlikely           Uncertain
C. Bank Perfornance                   Highly Satisfactory       Satisfacton        Deficient
Identification                                                      V
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal 1/                                                        /
Supermsion I/                                                       V
Note: 1/ For the rural healthi and other non-vaccine production components. the Bank's perfornance was
satisfactorv during appraisal and supervision. For the vaccine production component. however, the
Bank's performance was flawed. This was demonstrated by failure to predict the highly complex
technical requirements and large cost overruns of vaccine production. and to reduec their impacts in
a more timelv manner.
D. Borrower Perfornance               Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactorv       Defacient
Preparation
Implementation                                                       V
Covenant Compliance                           /
E Assesment of Outcome          Highly         Satisfactor     Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfacton                                        UnsatisfactorY
Vaccine Component
Other Components                                    V



22
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                      Purpose              Year of     Stahs
Approval
Rural Health and Medical Educaion Project  Extend coverage of PHC and    1984   Completed
(Cr. 1472-CHA)                         improve quality of medical
education.
Integrated Regional Health Dcvelopment  Strengthen regional capacitv for  1989   Completed
Project                              planuiing and management.
(Cr. 2009-CHA)                         experiment with innovative wavs to
improve health education. disease
prevention and suvecillance. MCH
cmergcncv scrvices. hospital
sevices, rehabilitative services.
medical education and training, and
equipment management. Strengthen
MOH capacity to oversee and
manage innovation.
Rural Health Workers Development Project   Strengthen health worker planning.    1993   Ongoing
(Cr. 2539-CHA)                         retrain health workers and improve
training, improve management and
working conditions of workers, and
improve MOH capacitv to manage
change in personnel manttrs.
Infectious and Endemic Disease Control  Support Tuberculosis and         1991   Ongoing
Project                              Schistosomiasis control. and
(Cr. 2317-CHA)                         improve institutional capacitv for
infectious discasc control of all types.
Comprehensive Maternal and Child Healtih   Reduce maternal and child monalitv   1995   Ongoing
Project                              and morbidity through improving
(Cr. 2655-CHA)                         basic health services delivey,. health
wvorker training. management
improvemenL and improving MOH
capacity to nmnage these changes.
Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Project  Increase use of iodized salt to reduce   1995   Ongoing
(Ln. 3914/Cr. 2756-CHA)                iodine deficiencv disorders.
strengthen the legal framework and
improve management.
Diseasc Prevention Project             Reduce vaccine preventable disease,   19%   Ongoing
(Cr. 2794-CHA)                         and design and implement health
promotion programs to control the
rising prevalence of NCDs. sexually
transmitted diseases (STDs), human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and
injury. Strengthen MOH capacity to
manage these initiatives.



23
LoAnCredit Title                       Purpose              Year of     Stau
Apprval
Basic Health Scrvices Project          Assist with achieving sustainable  1998   Ongoing
(Cr. 3075-CHA)                         health improvement in poor mrual
areas through improved allocation
and management of health
rcsources, upgrading health
facilities, improved qualitv and
ceffectiveness of health services. and
grcater financial access to essential
health care for the poor.
Health Nine Project                    Improve maternal health and child        Under
development. and improve                 preparation
prevention and control of
HlV/AIDS/STDs and other blood
born infections.



24
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                                          October 1984               October 1984
Appraisal                                                  May 1985                Julv 13. 1985
Negotiauions                                           Fcbnzaly 1986              April 21. 1986
Board Presentation                                       March 1986               June 19. 1986
Signing                                                         N/A             Januarv 15. 1987
Effectiveness                                                   N/A               Mav 26. 1987
Project Completion                                     June 30. 1991              Junc 30. 1996
Loan/Credit Closing                                    June 30. 1992              June 30. 1996
N/A: Not applicabic.
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ MILLION)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate    8.9   24.1    45 6    64.0    76.0    80.0       -.- ..          - -.- - _
Actual                9.0    21.4   23.3    39.1    50.4    56.0    62.0    78.2   83.5   90.3   93.85
Actualas%of         101.1    88.8    51.1    61.1    66.3    70.0              -.-    -.-      --      --
Estmate
Date of Final    October 10. 1996
Disbursement
Note:  Tnc difference bctwcen appraisal cstiiiatc and actual Loan/Crcdit disburscmcnt is duc to fluctuation of thc SDR
exchange ratc.
TABLE 5: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
No.                                 Study                                        Conducted By
1.   Rural Cooperative Health Insurance Schcmes                           Ministry of Health
2.   Vaccine Production Institutes Cost Stud%                             Shanghai Medical University
3.   GMP Training Needs                                                   GMP Expert. United
Kingdom. retained by the
Ministry of Health



25
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ MILLION)
Project Component               Appraisal Eslimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
Local  ForeiLrn    Total        Local  Foreien  Total I/
Slrengthening Rural Healdi Scrniccs     53.3   22.3       75.6          52.6     31.6    84.2
Vaccine Component                       11.2   29.4       40.6          44.7     %.5   141.2
Drug Qualitv Control                     7.6    4.2       11.8           9.2      4.6    13.8
Operational Research                     6.3    2.4        8.7           6.7      2.2      8.9
Physical Contingencies                8.5    10.0      18.5
Price Contingencies                  11.8   10.4       22.2
Total Project Cost                      987    787       177.4         113.2    134.9   248.1
Note: I/ Includes USS15.0 million Rotary International Grant. and USS4.5 million Dutch Development
Assistancc.
TABLE 6B: PROJECT COSTS
(RMB MILLION) 1/
Project Component               Apnraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
Local  Forcian    Total         Local  Forei!n   Total
Strengthening Rural Hcalth Scrniccs    440.8  184.4    625.2           436.6    262.3   698.9
Vaccine Component                       92.6  243.1    335.8           371.0    801.0  1,172.0
Drug Quality Control                    62.9   34.7       97.6          76.4     38.2   114.5
Operational Research                    52.1    19.8      71.9          55.6     18.3    73.9
Phvsical Contingencics               70.3   82.7    153.0
Price Contingencics                  97.6   86.0    183.6
Total Project Cost                     816.2  650.8   1.467.1          939.6  1.1!9.8  2.059.3
Note: 1/ Exchange ratc at project compiction used: US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.27.
TABLE 6C: PROJECT FINANCING 1/
(US$ MILLION)
Source                     Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Local  Foreie-n    Total        Local  Foreign   Total
Govenment                               97.4    0.0       97.4         111.7     23.1    134.8
IBRD                                     0.0    15.0      15.0           0.0      15.0    15.0
IDA                                      1.3   63.7       65.0           1.5    77.3    78.8
Rotary International 1/                   -.-    -.-       -.-           0.0      15.0    15.0
Dutch Development Assistance 2/           -.-    -.-       -.-           0.0       4.5     4.5
Total                                   98.7   78.7    177.4           113.2    134.9   248.1
Notes: 1/ In 1990, after the project was approved. Rotarv International provided a grant of US$15.0 million to bdp
finance the foreign exchange costs of establishing the Oral Polio Vaccine Plant in Yunnan Province-
2/ Dutch Development Assistan   ORET. wvas utilized for sole source equipment.



26
TABLE 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement             Section            Covenant      Present               Desciption of Covenant
Type        Status
Credit         Article IIL 3.01 (c)           3            C        Governnent to mnake proceds of credit available
to local entitles.
Credit         Article IIL 3.05               10           C        Borrower shall unplemcnt expernments in two
counties in Sichuan Province regarding
alternative approaches to rural health insur
with terms of reference and time schedule
acceptable to the Association.
Credit         Article 11, 3.06               5            C        Borrower will maintain World Bank Loan Office
in Ministry of Health.
Credit         Artiicle IV, 4.01              I            C        Adequate records. accountsandauditing
procedures by the Borrower.
Credit         Article IV, 4.02               10          NY        Production of vaccmes to meet intemnational
guidelines established by the World Health
Oranrzation on the qualitv of biological
products, due one year after start-up of operation
of the production centers.
Project        Article 1, 2.01 (a)            I0           C        Each local entitv shall provide funds, facilities
services, and other resources required for the
Project
Project        Article II 2.01 (b)            4            C        Each local entitv shall make adequate and timely
budgeting provisions for project implmaentation.
Project        Article IL 2.05                10           C        Each local entity shall maintain a World Bank
office with appropnate functions and staffing.
Project        Article 1m                     I            c        Adequate records, accounts and auditing
procedures by the local entities.
Covenant Class:                                                           Status:
I= Accounts/audits              8 = Indigenous people                   C   = covenant complied with
2= Financial perlormance/revenue 9 = Monitoring, review. and reporting  CD = complied with after delav
generation trom beneticiaries 10 = Project implementation not      CP = complied with partiallv
= Flow and utilization of project  covered bv categones i-9           NY = not vet due
funds                      11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding              budgetarv or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the       allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectorai or cross-sectoral policv/
6 = Environmental covenants         regulatorv/lnstitutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement   13 = Other
TABLE 8: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Staternents
(OD or OP/BP)



27
TABLE 9A: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(ACTUAL STAFF WEEKS)
Fiscal Year
Stage      1984  1985  1986   1987   1988  1989   1990   1991   1992  1993   1994 . 1995  1996  1997  1996  Total
Preparation     7.3   20.3                                                                                              27.6
to Appraisal
Appmisal                     75.7                                                                                       7.7
Negouation                   24.4                                                                                       24.4
to Board
Presentation
Supervision                         10.6    2.0    6 h   14.2    6.4   10.9   10.1   15.7   14.1   15.9   17.6   2.8  127.1
Complicuon                                                                                                        13.1  13.1
Total       7.3   20).3  100.1   10.6    2.0    6.8   14.2    6.4   10.9   10.1   15.7   14.1   11.9  17.6   159  140.2
TABLE 9B: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(ACTUAL USS'000)
Fiscal Year
Stage      1984  1985   1986  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  1993   1994   1995   1996  1997  1998  Total
Preparauon    15.6   89 4
to Appraisal
Appraisal                  176.2
Negouauon                   270.8
to Board
Presenauion
Supervision                         28.4    5.6   18.8   40.3   20.6   37.9   34.9   55.3   49.4   39.3   51.5    4.3  386.3
Completion                                                                                                        527   52.7
Total      15.6   89.4  447.0   2&4    5.6   18.8   40.3   20.6   37.9   34.9   55.3   49.4   39.3   51.5   57.0  439.0



28
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cvcie    Month/ Number of Days    Specialized Staff    Imple-         Devel-
Year    Persons  in Field  Skills Represented   mentation    *pment
/a           Status lh   Objectives
Pre-ldentification          02/84       2       n.a.  EC. PiH
Pre-Identification          04/84       2        9    EC, PI I
Pre-Identification          07/84       3       n.a.  PH. PL
Identification               10/84      2        16   EC, PM
Preparation                 01/85       8        32   EC, HE, PH. PM
Preparation                 02/85        1        9    EC
Preparation                 03/85       2        n.a.  EC, PH
Preparation                 07/85       3        6    EC, HE. Pli
Appraisal                   07/85       8        28   EC. HE. 00. PI-1.
PR. PM
Plost-Appraisal              12/85      3         5    1 lE. LO. PI I
Supervision 1                10/86      1         5    HIE                      I            I
Supervision 2               09/87        1      n a.  I'M                       I            I
Supervision 3               09/88       I        n.a.  H:E                      I            1
Supervision 4                12/88       1       15   HE                        I            I
Supervision 5               09/89       2        21   HE. PH                    2            1
Supervision 6                10/90      I       n.a.  HE                        2            1
Suipervision 7               12/90      3        9    AC, HE. VP                2            1
Supervision 8               09/91       3        9    AC, HE. VP                I            I
Supervision 9               01/92       2        9    IIE, VP                   I            I
Supervision 10              04/93       3        11   AC, I-E. VP               I            I
Supervision I1              05/93       3       n.a.  I1E, OA. VP               3            3
Supervision 12               10/93      2         3    HE, VP                   3            3
Supervision 13               11/93      2         3    HE, VP                   3            3
Supervision 14              03/94       1         1   HE                        3            3
Supervision 15              05/94       3        6    AC, HE, VP                S            S
Supervision 16              08/94       1         1   IIE                       S            S
Supervision 17              (3/95       2         i    IHE. VP                  S            S
Supervision 18               12/95      3        7    lIE. VP                   U            S
Supervision 19             0(/96        3        9    AC. IE. VP                S            S
Supervision 20              03/97       4        9    AC. HE. OA. VP            S            S
Supervision 21/Completion   0/.198      2        19   EC, IIE                   S            S
Completion                  04/98       1        20   EC                        S            S
Notes: /a  AC: Accounting and Auditing: EC: Economist: HE: Health Economist: HP: Health
Promotion Specialist: LO: Loan Officer: 00: Operations Analyst: PH: Public Health
Specialist: PL: Health Planning and Management Specialist: PM: Project Management
Specialist: PR: Pharmacist: VP: Vaccine Production Specialist.
A,  I/HS: Highly Satisfactory: 2/S: Satisfactory: 3/U: Unsatisfactorv.
n.a. Not available.



29                               ANNEX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Part 1: Rural Health and Other Non-Vaccine Production Components
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR for the rural health and non-vaccine production
components, "Project Completion Report," was submitted to the Bank in 1992. Following are
two sections from the Report: Background and Project Results. The full document is available in
the Project Files upon request.
1.    Background
I. I   Since the early 1950s, China has made remarkable progress in improving its population's
general public health and social sanitation conditions.  However, there has been unbalanced
development in terms of setting up health care deliverv systems and the provision of health
services. The reason could be largely contributed to the geographic regional differences where
social, cultural and economic situations have been shaped in its duet historical course.
1.2   As many of the health issues and health related issues are paralleled with the society's
general economic stage, and although the reported national average health indicators/index reveal
the successful control of the common communicable diseases and the fulfillment of the "First
Health Revolution," those averages in fact conceal the wide variations among the different
regions. Hence, the general consensus in China's health community is to promote the prevention
and treatment of communicable and endemic diseases in remote and poor rural areas and at the
same time, promote the early detection and prevention of risk factors of chronic conditions in
urban/rural areas.
1.3   With the impact and the influence by the nation's economic reform, particularly the
decentralization of financial responsibility, certain kinds of the so-called health reform are evident
in some places in the 1980s, such as introducing fee-for-service mechanisms and inducing
revenue-earning activities. But, on the other hand, the preventive work has shrunk because of the
shortage of public funding and, due to the collapse of the commune system, the rural medical
cooperative system which is supposed to serve the farmers is largely abandoned. The fact is since
the country is trying to attain its economic/production goals through economic restructuring, its
society's public services have comparatively been weakened. Aid, especially external aid, to
support the public programs becomes necessarily important.
1.4   The formulation of health policies in the mid-1980s is aimed at existing issues that the
health sector itself faces:
(a) Consolidation of past gains;
(b) Continued control of communicable diseases; and
(c) Effective and efficacious responses to the new challenge of the changing



30                                ANNEX A
epidemiological profile and the emerging older age structure.
1.5    As the second health project financed in part by Bank loans and coming after assessment
of China's achievement and prospects by the Bank, as reported in "The Health Sector in China,"
this project is to support the current policies in executing the national immunization program,
improving rural health services, training health professionals and workers in different fields and at
different levels, and strengthening preventive medicine. The project's rural health component is
part of the national One-Third County Program.
2.    Project Results
2.1   Overall, the project has been implemented as expected. The leading agency for managing
the project operation, the Ministry's FLO, has been involved closely in every aspect of project
activities, i.e., supervision of equipment procurement and program activities, financial accounting,
as well as much of the painstaking coordination work. Observations and documents have been
cumulated for files, and progress reports have been requested from the implementing entities for
periodic evaluations. For the purpose of the project completion report, the FLO has made their
special requirement for the project beneficiaries to conduct their own evaluations based on the
agreed investigations and evaluation designs, and these data and investigation materials should be
presented to the FLO for summary and analysis.
2.2   For the evaluation of the rural health component, a comprehensive investigation was
conducted in the fifty project counties, and a before-after self-comparison evaluation
indicators/index was constructed based on the following five categories:
(a) Basic social economic status;
(b) Health service conditions (in terms of civil construction, equipment, training);
(c) Rural health service facilities/institutions and manpower;
(d) Medical and health services/departments development; and
(e) Health service delivery and its impact.
2.3    Based on the structure/process/impact evaluation design, the basic social economic status
is a general framework or an overall structure which the evaluation will fit in; the health service
conditions are the project inputs which are part of the structure indicators; the rural health service
facilities/institutions and manpower are the extension of the service institutions coverage and rural
manpower development/upgrading, which are process indicators on the health delivery part; the
medical and health service/department development is the department/service items creations and
articles publications, which are also process indicators on the health delivery part; and the health
service delivery and its impact is self-explanatory. The before-after comparison duration is from
1986 to 1992, and the benefit population is as calculated, i.e., about 30 million which is 14% of
the aggregate population in those five poor provinces.
2.4   The total evaluation indexes are 129, and only part of them were selected. For the health



31                               ANNEX A
service delivery and its impact, originally, there were a total 54 indexes, but in consideration of its
comparative importance, we have only selected 14 index/indicators which have shown the
devastating health conditions in rural areas. For the remaining 40 index/indicators, they have all
shown the positive changes of health conditions and health outcomes.
2.5    With regard to the medical service and management, except the length of stay (LOS) in
Sichuan has increased a little bit, all of the rest of the indexes show a positive change, which is an
indication of health service quality improvement. Considering that the emergency case treatment
success increase rate is not much higher, and the large investment at county level in Sichuan
province, the negative LOS could be a point of serious case referral from the lower levels.
2.6   The health and public education indexes have all shown a good amount of work done, but
they may not target specific risk factors in the local areas as we have already seen the increase of
acute hepatitis A disease, so their effect needs to be further evaluated. But as general health
knowledge dissemination, the middle school health education course is a good approach for health
information sharing.
2.7    Overall, the project had the following merits:
(a) Improvement of the income levels of those poorer counties;
(b) Improvement of the service qualities and health facilities; and
(c) Reduction maternal and child mortality.



32                              ANNEX A
Part tl: Vaccine Production Component
1.    Background
1.1   Under the Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project, or Health II Project, a vaccine
component was established for which IDA and IBRD funding was provided to construct three
new vaccine production facilities. The component was initiated in the middle of 1984 and was
actually prepared in 1985, when a turnkey approach was envisaged to select a vaccine producer
through open bidding to take overall responsibility for all steps of designing, constructing,
equipping, commissioning and operating the facilities during the testing and initial production
phase. Both the initial bidding and subsequent protracted negotiations with a Canadian vaccine
production company ended in failure primarily due to underestimation of the cost for the facilities.
1.2   As a result of successful efforts to secure additional funds including a Rotary Grant, a new
semi turnkey approach was designed to invite an engineering firm subcontracted to a vaccine
producer as its partner. With foreign expert legal assistance, a contract was finally awarded to a
Dutch Consultant firm combined with its subcontractors as vaccine production process tranferer
and a Dutch Company as process equipment supplied, generally known as the Engineering Firm.
In fact, the contract is a foreign engineering professional service and vaccine production know-
how transfer project.
1.3   The Contract was signed between the EF, EEC, the Purchaser and the Ministry of Health
(MOH) on January 25, 1990 and became effective on May 8, 1990. Hence the vaccine
component or the vaccine project eventually began to move after 4 years of twists and turns.
2.    Project Objective
2.1   The PO under the Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project sought to establish three
new Vaccine Production Facilities. One facility for the Production of OPV will be located within
the Kunming Institute. The two others, each for the production of DPT vaccine, TT and
lyophilized EVE have attenuated measles vaccine, will be located within the Lanzhou Institute and
the Shanghai Institute. The quality of the vaccines should meet WHO requirements concerned
and the performance and operation of the facilities will be up to the European Good
Manufacturing Practice with a view to improve the quality of vaccines and cost effectiveness of
the national immunization program against the main childhood diseases.
3.    Project Design and Organization
3.1   The vaccine project is so far the largest one of technical renovation in the field of
biological production in China. It was designed to upgrade the quality of vaccines under EPI in
accordance with WHO requirements and performance and operation meeting European GMP.
3.2  It was envisaged that the existing production process for the five vaccines in China would
be phased out after successful finalization of the vaccine project. According to the contract
signed between the PO and the EF, microcarrier fermentation process with VERO cells will be



33                              ANNEX A
used for OPV production at 350L working volume in Kunming facility, current conventional
technology with 800L scale-up fermenters will be applied for DPT production and microcarrier
fermentation process will also be used for MV production. With production process improved,
the annual output of the vaccines produced in the three new facilities should meet the
requirements as indicated in the following chart.
Host Institutes               Products           Annual Output (doses)
Lanzhou/Shanghai                Measles Vaccine                 40 million
Lanzhou/Shanghai                DPT                            200 million
Lanzhou/Shanghai                TT                              80 million
Kunming                         OPV                             100 million
3.3   The contract started to be implemented in June 6, 1990 and was anticipated to be
completed in 66 months with the prerequisite that the EF's three guarantees (Product Guarantee,
Facility Guarantee, and Facility Performance Assurance) would be granted by the Project Owner.
Due to mid-term modification of the contract, only Product Guarantee was retained.
3.4   To provide overall management and coordination for the project implementation, a
vaccine project office (VPO) was established in Beijing under the Project Leading Group of
MOH, chaired by Minister Chen Minzhang and composed of key members of FLO, DPF and
CNBPC. A similar managerial structure was set up in the three host institutes to meet the project
implementation requirements. All these organization set-ups ensure the smooth communications,
coordination and implementation of the project.
4.    Project Implementation
4.1   The project implementation generally went well in spite of its great complexity and
difficulties. The project is now at the stage of facility and equipment validation. With acceptance
of OPV and MV processes, trial production will start soon after validation. The indicators as
listed in the contract to monitor overall project progress have been mostly met with efforts of
parties involved in the Project.
4.2   From the effective date, the contract was originally anticipated to be completed within 66
months or by December 6, 1995. Now the project has more than two years behind the
contractual time. The reasons for such delays were compounded by a number of factors which
may well be listed as: (a) funding crisis due to underestimation of project budget, inflation,
fluctuation in foreign exchange rates and higher bidding prices of equipment than originally
estimated; and (b) lack of experience in managing and operating such a complicated project on the
side of all parties involved.
4.3   The well-known engineering firm has great international experience in working with Asian



34                               ANNEX A
countries, but it seemed insufficiently prepared to develop a complicated project involving three
independent institutes and other related parties in China, and had encountered one after another
difficulty in addressing the problems experienced. Though known for its reputation in vaccine
research and production, the subcontractor has no experience in transferring vaccine technology
in such a scale and with such updated technique; and cultural differences and insufficient
communication have added to the above difficulties. Therefore, the project delay has become an
undeniable fact and the process development remains a bottleneck for successful completion of
the whole project. However, efforts have been made between the PO and the EF to overcome all
the difficulties experienced during the project implementation.
4.4   In its midway, the PO was confronted with a serious situation due to funding shortage,
which consequentially led to the Bank's action to suspend the equipment procurement and
disbursement and request to reassess the project.  After reporting to the Govemmment and
consultation with the Bank, an additional fund of USD 22 million was secured and a strategy in
modifying the contract were agreed on. The Project Modification Plan was signed by the ,O and
the EF and approved by the Bank in late 1994. As a result, the mid-way crisis was over.
4.5   The training goal surpassed expectations within the budget estimated in the contract; The
original training plan in the contract were satisfactorily completed. The remaining surplus
supported a GMP training assessment by extemal assistance and a new training program based on
the assessment report. There have been technical and management training activities abroad in
total amount of more than 550 persons/months in the framework of the contract and equipment
training was provided 200 times. Efficient and effective training was highly beneficial to the
implementation of the contract. The trainees have now formed the backbone for proper operation
of the facilities in the future.
4.6   As PO's representative agency, the Project office with only six permanent staff members
takes overall responsibility for communication, management coordination and monitoring. The
manpower inadequacy, particularly lack of senior legal, financial and engineering professionals has
made the Office face extreme difficulties in addressing such a large and complicated project. It is
important to structure a proper project organization. It is recognized that well organized and
staffed project management organizations at all operational levels are key to smooth project
implementation. The staff at the managerial level should be relatively stable to keep confsistency
of policy and management during the project implementation.
4.7   Inadequate communication between parties especially in the civil construction, poor
performnance of EF's civil works' subcontractor, multi-party involvement and simultaneous
operation in three different sites all blocked the smooth implementation and had impacted on the
final end of the project.
4.8   The PO utilized both foreign and domestic technical assistance during project preparation
and implementation, which have been greatly beneficial for the project. The technical assistance
helped the PO especially to assess the process development and make decisions.  After
termination of EF's DPT contractual obligations, external assistance has been sought for DPT
process development in the new facilities.



35                              ANNEX A
5.    Evaluation of World Bank Performance
5.1   The vaccine component of the World Bank's Rural Health and Preventive Medicine
Project is the largest project of biological product innovation in China, even in the world. The
Bank officials have contributed to the project both in its course of preparation and evaluation as
well as in the aspects of giving guidance and supervision in its implementation.
5.2   The Bank officials provided financial support by securing a grant in the amount of USD 15
million and administered the grant from the Rotary International. In addition, the Bank agree to
shift the remaining surplus from other components of the Health Project 1I to the vaccine
component.
5.3   Since the implementation of the project, ten missions were dispatched by the World Bank
including the representative from Rotary intemational for investigation and supervision. The
missions provided important technical assistance in relation with GMP, technical assistance
management and equipment procurement.
5.4   Underestimation of the cost needed to build three vaccine facilities in China caused
enormous difficulties in the preparation and the implementation.
6.    Evaluation of Borrower Performance
6.1   The Chinese Government has listed the vaccine component as one of national key
construction projects and paid serious attention to its implementation. The Leading Group,
MOH, chaired by Minister Chen convened from time to time to provide supervision and
coordination. It should be noted that as approved by the Chinese Government additional fund of
tJSD 22 million was appropriated to help solve the mid-term financial shortage.
6.2   Facing great challenges in terms of project complexity, multi-involvement, manpower
shortage and lack of experiences and adequate skills, Project Office together with the project
institutes exerted every effort to absorb the heavy workload, to overcome difficulties and solve
the problems in the project implementation. As a headquarters of the project, the Project Office
has contributed greatly towards efficient and effective project communication, coordination,
management and supervision. It has also played important roles in organizing project activities
such as facility construction, process development, equipment procurement, training, etc.
Especially in the later period of the project, Project Office organized the exchange of technical
and managerial experiences among the institutes and assiste  hem to reinforce their advantages
and to avoid the weak points during the commissioning and validation.
7.    Status of Cost Study
7.1   Proposed by the World Bank in the mid-term implementation, a cost study of three
production lines has been conducted by the Evaluation Centre of Medical Technology, Shanghai
Medical University, assisted by international experts. The value of the study can orient the staff
of the new vaccine facilities to cost and cost effectiveness analysis. If the cost of the new vaccine
is much higher, alternative approaches might be considered to reduce the costs and planning must
begin to mitigate the problem now. The study is also expected to be the basis for the Government



36                               ANNEX A
to deterrmine the price of the products of the new facilities. The report on cost study of OPV
production line has been completed. The dose cost of OPV is increased. Suggestions have been
made by the evaluation team.
8.    Status of Domestic Review Process Plan of WHO Certification
8.1   The availability of modem facilities for vaccine production, including the improved quality
control mechanisms, especially improved GMP conditions seems encouraging for product export
in the fUture. The first step is to follow the national procedures to obtain GMP certificate for the
facilities and pre-production license for trial production.
9.    Project Sustainability
9.1   Sufficient recurrent budget for the new facilities must be provided to keep the facilities in
operation in accordance with GWM standards. To gradually reduce the burden of operational
costs, the project institutes should analyze the costs and try to replace the imported production
materials by domestic ones.
9.2   Rational prices for vaccines under EPI should be based on standardized cost, takdng
governments economic affordability into account. In terms of manufacturers' benefits and the
inadequacy of EPI's expense, a policy may be sought for to solve the problems.
9.3    With external technical assistance, continued training courses and upgrading of GMP
knowledge will be conducted among vaccine production facilities.



37                             ANNEX A
Part HI: Borrower's Comments on Bank's ICR
Introduction
After a careful review of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR): Rural Health and
Preventive Medicine Project (Health II Project), we wish to extend our nigh appreciation for the
comprehensive coverage, objective analysis and constructive recommendations contained in the
Report. Health II comprised of two different components in nature is indeeeS a unique project in
terms of its complexity and unintended protraction in contrast with other World Bank projects
established so far. We completely share with you the overall assessment of the achievements,
outcomes issues and lessons learned as presented in the Report in which many of positive
elements contained in our initial evaluation documents have been incorporated. We only would
like to make some specific comments summanrzed as below.
1.    Non-Vaccine Production Component
1.1  It should be noted that as a separate sub-component, funding support to the ten provincial
and municipal EPSs in Gansu, Sichuan, Jilin, Hubei, Ningxia Hui, Heilongjiang, Shandong,
Jiangxi, Harbin and Chongqing has also contributed to the strengthening of preventive services in
respect to physical and training capability. Consequently the whole non-vaccine component may
be grouped as rural health (56 counties in five Provinces), ten provincial and municipal EPSs,
CAMs, drug control institutes and health insurance research.
1.2   The rural health insurance experiment is a pioneering one, which was conducted at a time
when the cooperative medical system in most areas of China was being dismantled and efforts
were made to explore possibility of restoring or replacing the system. The findings of the
experiment published in a Rural Health Insurance Handbook were widely distributed among the
health authorities and health policy researchers and the methodologies of scientific estimation of
affordability of the peasants, ratios of premium, etc., were then actually adopted by many of
researchers in their studies on rural health care financing. Therefore, the findings from the rural
health insurance experiment are used not only a decade later but were also implicitly or explicitly
used at the time of their conclusion.
2.    Vaccine Production Component
2.1   Rather than combining both limited intemational bidding and competitive international
bidding, the revised approach by using consultant service according to the World Bank guideline
was to engage an engineering firm, which would be associated with a vaccine producer.
2.2   The lessons learned from the vaccine component as summarized in the Report are both
costly and profound, which are related to how vaccine production will be properly upgraded or
renovated in developing countries. The lessons will be useful not only for China and the World
Bank, possibly also for other developing countries.



38                              ANNEX A
2.3   Through implementation of the vaccine project, the project institutes own not only the
advanced facilities but also a number of trained young people involved in different aspects of
production process and management, which is intangible and valuable resources of the institutes.
Making use of those resources will be beneficial to operation of the new facilities, motivation of
those trained young people and avoidance of turnover from the institutes.
2.4   The three new vaccine plants even when they come into final operation will be faced with
enormous problems relating to cost, price, maintenance, etc. Consideration on the aspects of
cost, price, and assessment of economic feasibility of vaccine production mentioned in the report
is most helpful for the Ministry of Health and the project institutes to take actions in order to keep
the facilities operate and survive. While MOH will take relevant steps to support the new
facilities without compromising the ongoing EPI the World Bank will also hopefully give
assistance in this respect. However, it is debatable whether support for privatizing the vaccine
plants is the best solution.
2.5   To help resolve one after another problems emerged in the process of the implementation
the contributions made by all the World Bank staff who were involved in the project cannot be
overemphasized, and our comments would not be complete without mentioning Mr. Herbert
Boehm who among many has witnessed the darkest or most difficult time of the component and
its break of dawn as well.



IBRD 29543
iO                      0O'                      90'                    10                    If                      120'                     130
50'                                                                                                                                           .-B -
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                              50
'S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
KAZAKHSTAN                       '                                Jo . _ ''j *,  'B                                                          B.,
,_ .~~ / 's 5,.S {.~~'_^).__wE j 's,_' )                               '
'S                                                  . ,  ~"'~'          l                       IIHEILONGJIANG
rUZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                            __          | HAfNj
_)- X s. X   i                        t                    ~~~~~M O N G O L I A                           j 
v     KYRGYZ             ri                   UUQ                                                                      i-_
8-   _   '^  'TD.    j40
h >_ X   =   8     >                    s              fNCH                  J    ,3  \ a3    X /                          KC)REA |~~~~~~~~~~~~  LIANIN
X INJIANG n
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.k                                                                                      KOREA,z  _  .' 
.5.    t"                                             MONGOLI                                     'B
'7                                                                                                         LIAONING  OEM.    40'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVNI
t!NJIA G                                                                       /  PEOPLE'S  S   AAI
PREVENTIVE                                                                                                                                         REPICINE  OROJECT  HB r  REP. OF
fl   OEC PROV NCES        ~           S   PROINCEO CAITL                           S                           S910991 HEE .                                   REP OF   EI
.1-                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOREA
VACCNEPRODUCTION '(V                   NATONALCAPITAL           \   YUNNAN                               SHANXI      . U N X  SHGAANDONG
ZHENGTHOU
-S HENAN - N L                     JIANGSU2
11I.Z A N G 00aiL                                                                     I EFEI  '.L. ..I  HA00 0 HA0             30'
RUTO 1  ANO                           'SPLZ  'n  .     N-               0      0     80KLMTR
OACN ,ODCTO                    NOOULUTU                     YANNHUIJNGI                                  GUHDOG
DRULAN iULIT CONTROL        P*OINCE BOUNDARISHUNAN       NA
_  100'  i  v  '~~~~~~~~ \ \ \ '!D 1~~~.                                             L20'
CHINA    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                      VETA
? OEM REP  ~         ?        -       -          UJAN0"o
THALAN  NGAI                                                              TAI IIPPNE
PROJECT PROV NCES  TD  PROVINCE CAPITALS         100                                                                           120
VACC NE PRODUCTION  NAT ONAL CAPITAL  YUNNAN                            GUANGDONG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNE 99



