Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4331-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AND
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
$15.0 MILLION AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 57.2 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
May 27, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1985    April 1986
$1.00            =      Y 2.96            3.20
Y 1=                     $0.34            0.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNTIC     -  China National Technical Import Corporation
DPT       -  Diphtheria-Pertussis-Tetanus Associated Vaccine
EPS       -  Epidemic Prevention Stations
IBRD      -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -  International Development Association (World Bank Group)
MCH       -  Maternal and Child Health
MOPH      -  Ministry of Public Health
NCPM      -  National Center for Preventive Medicine
OPV       -  Oral Poliomyelitis Vaccine (Live)
RHME      -  Rural Health and Medical Education (Project)
UNICEF    -  United Nations Children's Fund
WBLO      -  World Bank Loan Office
WHO       -  World Health Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Amount:
Bank Loan:       $15.0 million equivalent
IDA Credit:      SDR 57.2 million ($65.0 million equivalent)
Terms:
Bank Loan:       20 years including 5 years grace at standard variable
interest rate.
IDA Credit:      Standard
Project
Description:     The proposed project will:  (a) strengthen the Ministry of
Public Health's (MOPH) continued efforts to improve rural
health care; (b) improve efficiency, coverage and quality
of the national immunization program for children; (c) ini-
tiate improved drug quality control; and (d) deveLop new
preventive strategies for communicable and chronic
diseases, and health care financing systems in rural areas.
The proposed project consists of four main components:
(a) Rural Health - expansion and qualitative improvement
(through construction, equipment, technical assistance,
personnel recruitment and training) of preventive and
curative health 1ervices in the poorer rural counties of
five provinces - (Gansu, Hubei, Jilin, Sichuan and Ningxia
Hui) and strengthening of the disease monitoring and
control activities and imnunization delivery and management
of the epidemic prevention stations in these and three
additional provinces (Heilongjiang, Jiangxi and Shandong);
(b) Vaccine Production -- improvement in the coverage and
cost effectiveness of the national immunization program
against the main childhood diseases through construction
and rehabilitation of three national vaccine production
centers for the production of essential vaccines meeting
international quality standards; (c) Drug Quality Control
- improvement in quality control of drugs used in China
through construction, equipment, training, fellowships and
technical assistance; and (d) Operational Research -
undertaking research: (i) to strengthen the capacity of the
National Center for Preventive Medicine (NCPM) for disease
1/   Unless otherwise stated, "provinces" denotes province-level administra-
tive units including municipalities and autonomous regions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
surveillance and disease prevention strategies; and (ii) to
test new approaches to rural health insurance.
Experience with the Rural Health and Medical Education
project, and with preparation of the proposed project,
indicates that MOPH has the management capacity and
commitment needed for successful implementation of the
rural health component and, with the assistance of experi-
enced international vaccine firms, the vaccine production
component. Consequently no major implementation risks are
anticipated. Implementation of the operational research
component, however, does carry inherent risk in that it may
take time for NCPM, a newly created amalgamation of
previously independent research institutes, to shift from
laboratory to policy-focused research. To minimize this
risk NCPM's program will be monitored closely by MOPE and
the Bank Group. In the drug quality control component,
there is a risk that the expected impact may be compromised
by difficulties in coordinating the activities of HOPH and
the State Pharmaceutical Administration. To minimize the
risk that investments in quality control would not be
effectively utilized because industrial capabilities could
not keep pace with rapidly improving quality measurement
standards, the project would finance only the first phase
of MOPH's program to raise drug quality testing capacity.
Estimated Costs:                                     Local     Foreign      Total
$ million) --
A.  Strengthening of Rural Health                  53.3       22.3        75.6
B.  Vaccine Production                             11.2       29.4        40.6
C. Drug Quality Control                             7.6        4.2        11.8
D.  Operational Research
(a) Preventive Medicine                         6.1        1.9         8.0
(b) Rural Health Insurance                     0.2         0.5         0.7
Subtotal for Operational Research          6.3        2.4         8.7
Total Base Costs                     78.4        58.3       136.7
Physical Contingencies                              8.5        10.0       18.5
Price Contingencies                                11.8        10.4       22.2
Total Project Costs /a               98.7        78.7       177.4
/a   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                        Local     Foreign      Total
($ million)
IBRD                                             0.0        15.0        15.0
IDA                                              1.3        63.7        65.0
Goverr.ment                                     97.4         0.0        97.4
Total                                      98.7        78.7       177.4
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank Group         1987   1988  1989  1990  1991   1992
Annual            8.9   15.2  21.5  18.4  12.0    4.0
Cumulative        8.9   24.1  45.6  64.0  76.0   80.0
Rate of Return: n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5876-CHA, dated Hay 27, 1986.
Map: IBRD No. 19288 R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AND OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Rural Health
and Preventive Medicine Project. The loan, for $15.0 million, would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. The credit for SDR 57.2 million ($65.0 million equivalent)
would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
Nay 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than donbled in rural areas and increased by more than 50% in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 1 p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8% p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% p.a. vs. 9% p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4% p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's exter-
nal position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 billion
during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios remained at
low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983) and China's foreign
currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over 7 months'
imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14% during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36%. The
retail price index rose by only 3Z in 1984, but inflation is expected to be
higher in 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from $4 billion in 1983 to
over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase occurring in the second
half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods imports.
These trends continued during early 1985. As a result, foreign exchange
reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about $10 billion by July 1985 (equi-
valent to 3.1 months of exports), and the current account deficit for the year



- 3 -
is likely to be in the range of $10 billion. The Government has responded
quickly by launching a strict stabilization program that includes further
increases in interest rates as well as a series of administrative directives
governing bank credit and project approval. As a result, aggregate credit and
demand as well as new import orders have begun to slow, though total imports
will continue to rise as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a Larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, tr&nsport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agen-
cies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement price.
Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be produced
for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety



- 4 -
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the appli-
cation of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the
impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have
resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the
fixed capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment.
Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in spite of efforts
to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly enforce
existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given sig-
nificant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on



- 5 -
budgetary capital construction loans (rormerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent
difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7% p.a. {or industry, 6% for agriculture, a little over 7% for
GNP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor wi-ll gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted prices.
Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete without
eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises (which now
provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and in many



- 6 -
cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them with
Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.       Chins's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over
6: p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as
continued high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes
there must be major structural changes in the economy over the next two
decades, including a reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the
share of industry and services (which at present is unusually low), and sub-
stantial urbanization. There will also be a shift within agriculture, away
from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new
plan will emphasize development of the service sector, mainly through removing
restrictions on collective and individual activity. Urban development will
focus on small and medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth
of large urban areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency ih recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coordi-
nated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management, and
social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education and
training to develop China's "hhuman capital" potential also are crucial. Back-
ward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be addressed
by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and transfer
of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories, suboptimal
scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in general are
related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficien:y, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,



backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid, sus-
tained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50% over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8% p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9% p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade, equi-
valent to about 1% of GNP. This implies that the present debt service ratio
would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports grow more slowly,
imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher borrowing target,
though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would probably run into
suppLy constraints as China would become one of the largest developing country
borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export growth in order to
meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial borrowing. The plan
proposaL recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and pricing policies
will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have sub-
stantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the decade.
Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at 8% p.a.
and imports at 9% p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit would be
over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be about
$6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and imports
continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach $14 bil-
lion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing at
commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important role
in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary lending
because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But China's
access to concessionary capital for financing development and modernization is
limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the rest of
the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to increase efficiency, and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment. In the next few years,
therefore, the Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an in.ermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-



- 8 -
culture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology transfer by
bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and implementation
and by helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through interna-
tional competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is invoLved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises, as well as in infra-
structure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank will
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and intro-
ducing to the Government new tools of economic management. This work provides
a foundation for Bauk Group lending and for the dialogue with the Government
on development options and policies. Past work has included two major econo-
mic reports, studies on secto-ral investment analysis and planning, and colla-
borative research with Chinese institutions. The Bank has also organized
seminars on macroeconomic and sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic report.
In this program, the Bank will examine alternatives for developing the finan-
cial system, foreign trade and investment. It will also analyze issues of
intersectoral investment coordination and development of resource-poor
regions. One such study is already under way in Gansu province to formulate
programs for increasing interregional resource flows, improving the efficiency
of investment and reducing poverty. Research on urban development, transport
planning, and regional industrial development will also be undertaken to form
the basis for project preparation. Collaborative studies with Cninese
research institutions will continue. An ongoing study of management and
guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises will be followed by a study of
collective enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly important
industrial organizations in the reformed system.



-9-
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May 1980,
37 projects involving lending of $3,699.1 million to China have been approved.
Of the projects, twelve have been in the agriculture sector, seven in energy,
six in transport, four in industry, four in education, two in technical
cooperation and one each in health and water supply. In FY85, IFC made its
first investment in China of $17.02 million in automobile manufacturing.
Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits and IFC invest-
ment as of March 31, 1986.
29.       In addition to the proposed project and the already approved second
rural credit, third industrial credit, second technical cooperation, provin-
cial universities, third railway, port development and fisheries projects, we
expect to present to the Board this year two power projects and a petroleum
project. For FY87 and beyond, we expect the lending program for China to
continue to gr? from current levels.  Infrastructure projects in energy and
transport will remain priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises,
particularly in industry, will be given greater attention and support as will
the regional approach to project development, now being used to assess the
needs of Gansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in tech-
nology transfer, staff training and institution building. Through a power
tariff study, we will seek to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost
and to increase the awareness of the need for a nationwide power system devel-
opment program. In the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project
involvement will lie in the identification, packaging and transfer of
specialized technologies as well as in the strengthening of investment plan-
ning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and strengthen
institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and financing will be
required as a resualt of administrative decentralization and introduction of
the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways, we will
focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equipment and
materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrification.
We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal shipping
and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will support
efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking syst9m will be supported
through rural credit projects. We will continue to assist with the training,
research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries concerned
with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for specialized



- 10 -
agricultural development such as livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation
and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance voca-
tional and technical educatioi which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Covercmcrt's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and hou-ing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, agriculture and rural water supply and
will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore further
options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank cofinan-
cing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assist-
ance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will be the
executing agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commission,
have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects. Disbursement
performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have been estab-
lished for a majority of the approved projects and have helped to speed
disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in Beijing
to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project prepa-
ration, improve project implementation and further economic and sector work.



- 11 -
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Introduction
38.       Since the early 1950s, China has made remarkable progress in improv-
ing health and nutrition. Many factors have contributed to this achievement,
including greater and more equitable food distribution, improved water supply
and sanitation, a higher literacy rate and advances in education. The health
system's strong emphasis on prevention, community mobilization and financing,
and paramedical field workers (barefoot doctors) have also contributed greatly
to progress. However, China's health care system is entering a period of
transition. The changing epidemiological profile and emerging health problems
of the 1980s and beyond will increasingly mean that curative as well as pre-
ventive health care needs must be adequately and economically addressed. A
detailed assessment of China's achievement and prospects in the health sector
was undertaken by a Bank mission in October 1982. The mission's report is
entitled The Health Sector in China, A World Bank Country Study.
Health and Population Status
39.       Health conditions in China have improved dramatically since the
l950s and are now far better than in other low-income countries. Infant
mortality has fallen from close to 200 per 1,000 live births in the early
1950s to only about 40 per thousand today. At the same time, life expectancy
at b_rth rose by 70% from about 40 years in the early 1950s to 67 years in
1983. The extent and rapidity of these mortality declines are remarkable and
probably unprecedented for a country of China's relatively low income level.
Current mortality rates in China compare very favorably to the average infant
mortality rate of more than 100 per thousand and average life expectancy of
about 50 years in other low-income countries. However, these national aver-
ages conceal wide variations within the country. Life expectancy appears to
be higher in the more heavily populated and advanced northeastern provinces
and coastal areas than in inland and border regions, and is also higher in
urban than in rural areas.
40.       Significant declines have been achieved also in fertility.  The
total fertility rate remained high at about 6.5 from the mid-1950s through the
late 1960s, despite a temporary reduction associated with the 1959-62 famine.
Following the introduction of strong fertility limitation policies in the
early 1970s, the total fertility rate fell sharply to only 2.3 in 1979.
Fertility has since turned upwards slightly, probabLy as a short-lived result
of the relaxation in policy regarding age at first marriage and the conse-
quently increased rate of family formation (marriage followed by first
births). Overall, according to Bank estimates, the average annual population
growth rate has decreased from 2.7% in the period 1965-73 to 1.5% between 1973
and 1983 and is projected to fall further to 1.2% between 1980 and 2000.
41.       Many once-important communicable diseases such as smallpox, cholera,
plague and Kala-azar have been virtually eradicated. Diphtheria and poliomye-
litis have been almost eliminated and the incidence of other infectious and
parasitic diseases has been reduced. However, continuing deficiencies in



- 12 -
hygiene and human waste treatment cause the persistence of diseases such as
hepatitis and dysentery. Malaria and schistosomiasis remain problems and
their control is a public health priority. Tuberculosis, the main cause of
death in 1949, still affects nearly one percent of the population and remains
a major health hazard. Chronic bronchitis associated with smoking and severe
air pollution, is reported in 3.5% of the population. In China, as in the
industrialized countries, cancer, cardiovascular diseases and accidents now
account for most deaths. Due to inevitable aging of the population, morbidity
and mortality associated with chronic diseases are likely to become even more
prevalent. For example, the number of cases of hypertension can be expected
to more than double between 1980 and 2010.
Health Sector Services
42.       At the apex of China's rural health system are approximately
2,100 counties, each of which has a county hospital, an epidemic prevention
station (EPS), a maternal and child health (MCH) clinic, and a health person-
nel training center. County facilities are funded by the Government through
the province and county health bureaus which are responsible for overall
direction, technical support and supervision of all county service delivery.
Below the county facilities are health centers at the township level. In
1981, some 55,000 or 90% of all townships had such centers, averaging about 14
beds, which are responsible for routine curative and preventive se-vices. The
operation of these centers is financed by county subsidies (either full or
partial subsidy of salaries) plus user charges (for drugs and services). At
the vilLage level, more than 90% of the villages have a health station with
one or mote barefoot doctors. Many village-level services have, in the past,
been financed by cooperative health insurance, which was funded jointly by
annual prepayments of individual members and appropriations from village
welfare funds. However health insurance coverage has declined dramatically,
from 85% of villages in 1975 to 58% in 1981 and to only a negligible propor-
tion today. This has resulted from the introduction of the rural production
responsibility system which removed the institutional and fiscal basis of
cooperative insurance at village level.
43.       Although the urban population comprises only 21% of the totals urban
health services are quantitatively very important. They account for about
half of total hospital beds and salaried health manpower available in the
entire health sector, and recent trends show a more rapid increase in
resources for urban than for rural health care in China. The size of the
urban sector reflects the high effective demand for services resulting from
the extensive insurance coverage provided to urban residents under the Govern-
ment and labor health insurance schemes. State enterprises play a key role
both in financing and directly providing urban health services. Approximately
half of urban health resources are owned by enterprises.
44.       At the national level, the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) super-
vises activities of the provincial health bureaus. MOPH has broad responsibi-
lity for health policy, for preparation of an annual plan, for supervision of
medical and paramedical education and for coordination with related ministries
and agencies. MOPH is indirectly responsible for thirteen core medical
universities, medical research, the vaccine production institutes and the
National Center for Preventive Medicine (NCPM).



- 13 -
45.       The licensing of new drugs and the supervision and control of
production, marketing and utilization are part of the mandate assigned to MOPH
by the new Pharmaceutical Administration Law which became effective July 1,
1985. The drug manufacturers (about 1,800 in China), under the general plan
of production marketing of the State Pharmaceutical Administration, are
responsible for the quality and quantity of the drugs approved by MOPH. Tests
of pharmaceuticals are carried out by the 29 provincial and municipal insti-
tutes for drug quality control. Biological products and vaccines are produced
in seven institutes under the control of MOPH. Each institute produces
vaccines, blood derivatives and biological reagents, except for the Kunming
Institute which specializes in poliomyelitis. None of these vaccines meet the
international standards for safety and potency established by the World Health
Organization (WHO).
46.       NCPM was created in 1983 to coordinate seven research institutes.
NCPM has begun to pursue its principal objectives of conducting research on
preventive medicine and coordinating similar research programs throughout the
country, assisting provincial health institutions, training public health
professionals for service in the provinces, monitoring epidemic prevention and
quarantine programs, and developing the scientific basis for establishing
regulations, standards and appropriate public health priorities and policies.
Health Sector Policies
47.       China's progress in improving the health of its people is due in
part to effective health delivery and to the policies on which such delivery
is based. During the last two decades China has emphasized preventive over
curative services more strongly than most low-income countries. China's
policies have always reached beyond the health system itself, stressing the
importance of nutrition, water supply and sanitation, education and reduced
fertility.  China has also pioneered the concept of community-financed auxi-
liary health workers, known as barefoot doctors. Consistent with China's
priorities for poverty reduction through rural development and provision of
basic social services, a substantial volume of financial resources has been
mobilized for health. The resources available for health care come from
central and local governments, insurance systems and community and private
expenditures. As a result the resouces available for health care, particu-
larly in poor areas, are sigrificantly higher than in comparable areas of most
low-income countries.
48.       The Government's current medium-term health policy objectives
include the following:
(a) to promote prevention by strengthening anti-epidemic activities,
improving the management of immunization campaigns, and identifying
preventive measures against chronic diseases;
(b) to strengthen and consolidate rural health services by upgrading
county-level health institutions and major township health centers
and promoting barefoot doctors to -ural doctors after they have
received sufficient training; and



- 14 -
(c) to intensify medical research and training of health professionals,
improve the technical and administrative management of health
delivery, improve the quality, production and distribution of
pharmaceuticals, and ensure that they are properly used.
49.       Rural Health Policy. The national program, designed to strengthen
rural health services, is called the One-Third County Upgrading Program.  The
program is to be implemented in three phases, each covering about one-third of
the counties and lasting five years. The program's major focus is to streng-
then the four county-level health institutions - the general hospital, the
epidemic prevention center, the MCH center and the training center - together
with the major township health centers. An important policy innovation is the
development of selected centers as major township health centers designed to
serve an intermediate referral function between ordinary centers and county
hospitals. Investment in the program during 1980-1982 totaled Y 443 million,
and was allocated mainly to construction and purchase of equipment. Provincial
budgets financed the largest share (48%), followed by county budgets (29Z),
and self-financing by beneficiary institutions (18%). In general, implementa-
tion performance has been uneven. Investment per county ranged from as little
as Y 0.5 million in Shanxi Province up to Y 4.4 million in Shanghai. There
has been no detailed evaluation of the impact of the program to date but a
preliminary MOPH assessment judged implementation to be satisfactory in about
two-thirds of the participating counties. Poor performance was attributed
principally to insufficient financing and ineffective management.
Health Sector Finance
50.       Estimates for 1981 indicate that China spent 3.3% of CDP on health
services, a relatively high proportion compared with other low-income coun-
tries. Total expenditures were $7.50 per capita, of which 95% was recurrent
expenditure. The major sources of finance for recurrent expenditure were
individual payment for drugs and services, labor insurance schemes and govern-
ment subsidies. Expenditures were mainly for drugs (58%, of which the bulk
were Western medicines), salaries (20Z) and hospital care (13%). Urban expen-
diture in 1981 was estimated at about $16.50 per capita, more than double the
national average and almost four times greater than the rural average of $4.50
per capita. The major cause of this disparity is the uneven distribution of
state subsidies, especially for insurance schemes covering urban residents.
51.       Important features of health financing in China are the emphasis on
cost recovery, the consequent importance of health insurance and, until
recently, the extensive degree of insurance coverage. Estimates for 1981
indicated that 43Z of total expenditure was mediated through health insurance
schemes. About 70Z of the population benefited from some type of insurance
coverage. However, since the early 1980s the virtual collapse of the rural
cooperative insurance schemes associated with the dissolution of the communes
and production brigades has essentially limited insurance coverage to the
urban minority and enterprise employees. This important new development in
the health sector presents a policy issue for MOPH, particularly because
Government also wants to encourage hcspitals to become financially self-sup-
porting by increasing cost recovery and reducing reliance on state subsidies.
Development of affordable and efficient rural health insurance coverage is



- 15 -
high on MOPH's mediumw-term policy agenda so that rural/urban inequities in
access to health care do not threaten many of the past gains.
Sectoral Issues
52.       Consolidation of Past Cains.  Although China's progress in reducing
morbidity and mortality has been considerable, this achievement remains incom-
plete in several important respects. First, improvements in health conditions
have not been uniform. Major differences in health status and in the avail-
ability of health resources continue to exist between rural and urban areas,
and these are reflected in wide disparities between provinces. While effec-
tive systems of health delivery have been established in urban areas, similar
improvements have not been extended to many poor rural areas. These improve-
ments will inevitably require mobilization of increased central and provincial
finance for provision of rural health services in order to offset the limita-
tions of local fiscal self-reliance introduced by fiscal decentralization.
53.       Communicable Diseases.  Hepatitis, dysentery and tuberculosis are
not yet under control and there are still problems with the vaccine-preven-
table diseases which typically account for the bulk of infant and child morta-
lity in developing countries. Although the national immunization program has
made considerable progress, its success is still constrained by the poor qua-
lity of domestically produced vaccines, lack of refrigeration to preserve
vaccine potency during transport to the field, and the infrequent scheduling
of immunization sessions, which leaves unprotected children who are either too
young or too old to receive immunization when it is offered. Evidence of
under-reporting of disease incidence and over-reporting of immunization cover-
age rates also points to a need to strengthen program management.
54.       New Challenges.  China's transition to a predominantly chronic
disease profile has been induced in part by China's past success in disease
control and is being reinforced by the shift to an older age-structure as a
result of the one-child family planning policy. Prevention is a much harder
task for non-communicable diseases but the development of effective yet low-
cost strategies for chronic disease prevention and treatment is the major
priority in the health sector. This will require reconsideration of the role
of the epidemic prevention stations which have been narrowly focused on infec-
tious disease control. It will be increasingly important for urban hospitals
to provide specialized curative services as part of a hospital referral system
serving both rural and urban populations. With the growing cost pressures
that accompany a rise in demand for specialized hospital services, there will
also be a need to contain costs by eliminating inefficiencies in service pro-
vision throughout the health sector. This will require improved hospital
management, revision of incentives that encourage excessive    -Vice provision
and avoidance of wasteful duplication of services such as the development of
curative facilities in maternal and child health stations. Additional impor-
tant issues in the sector include cost recovery and financing policies for
both capital and recurrent costs; development of affordable and efficient
insurance coverage particularly in the rural areas; and organizational and
regulatory reforms to improve pharmaceutical quality.



- 16 -
Bsank Group Role and Assistance Strategy
55.       Our lending operations in China's health sector so far comprise one
IDA credit (Cr. 1472-CiA) of $85 million equivalent for the Rural Health and
Medical Education (RUNE) Project approved by the Executive Directors on May 3,
1984. The project's two major objectives are to develop new approaches to
upgrading health service in rural areas and to improve the quality of medical
education. The RHME project is now in its second full year of implementation,
and performance to date has been fully satisfactory. In the rural health
component, participating provinces have endorsed the methodology developed by
Bank Group staff and consultants for preparing county plans, and other
counties and provinces have begun to use the methodology. Programs aimed at
improving the reporting system for disease monitoring and establishing stan-
dard procedures in hospital care management have been extended to non-partici-
pating counties. Construction under the project has been implemented ahead of
schedule and the output of training programs has exceeded the target set
during project appraisal. In the medical education component, the experience
of project preparation and implementation in the 13 medical universities
serves as a basis to design tne reform of curricula and medical education
policies currently under preparation. This reform will later be introduced in
provincial and other non-project medical colleges.
56.       The Bank Group's strategy for the proposed project and future lend-
ing in the health sector is to focus on policy and institutional changes
needed to address inequities in health conditions in poor rural areas, linger-
ing problems of communicable disease and the emerging problems of chronic
disease. It will also assist China to gain access to new medical technologies
that will lead to more efficient use of resources as well as support the
Government's agenda for reform in systems for supplying and financing health
services. Bank Group sector and project work in health is aimed to build the
basis for a sound dialogue on key policies, meet high priority needs and have
a clear demonstration effect consistent with these strategies. The proposed
project contributes to this objective, particularly through rural health
investments, the upgrading of vaccines, monitoring of pharmaceutical produc-
tion and support for operational research into new preventive strategies and
for development of alternative rural health insurance systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       The project was first presented to the Bank Group in July 1984 and
subsequently prepared by MOPH with the assistance of WHO consultants. A Bank
Group mission appraised the project in July 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1986 with a delegation led by Mr. Luo Qing of the Ministry
of Finance and included representatives of the State Planning Commission and
the Ministry of Public Health. A map (IBRD No. 19288 R) of the country showing
the project locationas is attached.
Project Objectives and Scope
58.       The objectives of the proposed project are to strengthen and expand
MOPH's continued efforts to improve rural health care, to improve the



- 17 -
efficiency, coverage and quality of the national imunnization program for
children, to initiate improved drug quality control and to develop new
strategies for communicable and chronic disease preventive and health care
financing in rural areas.
59.       The project consists of four main components:  (a) Rural Health -
expansion and qualitative improvement (through construction, equipment, tech-
nical assistance, personnel recruitment and training) of preventive and cura-
tive health services in the poorer rural counties of five provinces (Gansu,
Hubei, Jilin, Sichuan and Ningxia Hui) and strengthening of the disease
monitoring and control activities and immunization delivery and management of
the epidemic prevention stations in these and three additional provinces
(Heilongjiang, Jiangxi and Shandong); (b) Vaccine Production - improvement in
the coverage and cost effectiveness of the national immunization program
against the main childhood diseases through construction and rehabilitation of
three national vaccine production centers for the production of essential
-.accines meeting international quality standards; (c) Drug Quality Control -
construction, equipment, training, fellowships and technical assistance
through improvement of the quality control of drugs used in China;
(d) Operational Research - undertaking research: (i) to strengthen the capa-
city of the National Center for Preventive Medicine for disease surveillance
and disease prevention strategies; and (ii) to test new approaches to rural
health insurance.
Project Components
60.       Rural Health.  The purpose of this component is to upgrade the
coverage and quality of preventive and curative health services in about 50
poor rural counties in five provinces, and to strengthen and reorient disease
monitoring and prevention efforts in these and three additional provinces
(Heilongjiang, Jiangxi and Shandong). Each of the eight participating
provinces prepared an investment program based on overall project objectives
and consistent with the national One-Third County Program. The provincial
investment programs and implementation plans were the basis of project design
and project cost estimates.
61.       To improve health care at the county level in the five provinces the
project will upgrade or construct hospitals, MCH centers, epidemic prevention
stations and training centers. Below county level the project will support
the establishment of a network of major township health centers and in some
cases will rehabilitate existink health centers. Major health centers are
designed to provide basic inpatient care that serves an intermediate referral
function between ordinary health centers and the county hospital. Total con-
struction is estimated at 471,100 m2, of which 113,100 m2 is for facilities
below county level.
62.       Equipment and vehicles, including teaching aids in the training
centers, will be provided to strengthen laboratories, clinical diagnosis, cold
chain, X-ray facilities, operating rooms, outpatient clinics, and training
facilities.



- 18 -
63.       Selected counties are generally much poorer than those supported in
the REME project. In Gansu, one of the poorest provinces in China, the par-
ticipating counties come from the lower two-thirds of the per capita rural
income distribution. Participating counties in the other provinces have been
selected from the lowest one-third of the income distribution. Also
considered in the selection of counties were implementation and management
capability, geographic distribution, relative severity of health problems, and
strength of local government commitment.
64.       In all eight provinces the component will strengthen disease moni-
toring and control activities and immunization delivery and management func-
tions of the provincial epidemic prevention stations through expansion of the
provincial stations, equipment and vehicles, staff training, fellowships and
technical assistance. Cold storage facilities will be constructed at prefec-
ture level wherever needed to ensure an effective cold chain for expanded,
effective vaccine distribution. In Heilongjiang, Jiangxi and Shandong
provinces the component focuses on improving the management of preventive
health programs, with special emphasis on priority diseases. These include
programs to strengthen child immunization in Heilongjiang, screening for
hemorrhagic fever in Jiangxi, and screening for leprosy and tuberculosis in
Shandong. Project activities in these provinces will also include improved
disease surveillance of a wide range of both communicable and non-communicable
diseases.
65.       For the component as a whole, improved outreach, patient care and
management will be supported by training in the following areas: (a) pre-
service training of primary health workers at the county level, and of middle
level workers at the province level; (b) upgrading of professional skills in
specific disciplines and subjects, such as improved clinical practice for
doctors and equipment maintenance for general service staff; and (c) special-
ized training for doctors and supervisors in technical fields such as epidemi-
ology, statistics and management. An extensive program has been organized by
MOPH and the health bureaus in participating provinces. County training
schools will be established or upgraded in all participating counties.
Provincial training centers will be upgraded to in-service schools for medical
cadres. Local trainers and consultants from universities, medical schools,
NCPM, provincial hospitals and other high level institutions in China will
organize a series of training workshops, assist in design of curricula for in-
service training and provide on-the-job training in medical procedures and use
of equipment. An estimated 72,000 health staff will benefit from some k:nd of
retraining during project implementation. Additional personnel (doctors,
nurses, laboratory technicians, administrators and trainers) will be recruited
after the expansion in the scope and quality of health services.
66.       Vaccine Production for Improved Immunization.  China has produced
essential vaccines for childhood diseases for some years in seven institutes
under MOPH. However, problems of vaccine quality and potency, use of liquid,
rather than freeze-dried vaccine, and weaknesses in the cold chain have made
China's immunization program less effective and more expensive than it should
be. The vaccine production component of the project will strengthen the
national immunization programs by enabling China to produce improved-quality
essential vaccines that meet quality standards for potency and safety



- 19 -
established by the World Health Organization. The component will also provide
for packaging of vaccines in small numbers of doses Ippropriate for frequent
immunization programs in villages. Improved packaging, and freeze drying,
will also allow transport with less vulnerabi'Lity to temperature variation and
provide a longer shelf life. These quality improvements, combined with revi-
sion of the national immunization schedule, are expected to yield a signifi-
cant improvement in the coverage and cost-effectiveness of the national
childhood immunization program.
67.       Specifically, the component will:
(a) establish a new production center for oral poliomyelitis vaccine
(OPV) in Kunming, Yunnan Province, with an annual production capa-
city of 100 million doses of liquid trivalent vaccine. The rest of
the annual requirement (about 40 million doses) will continue to be
produced in the Beijing institute;
(b)  establish two new production centers for essential vaccines,
including DPT, tetanus toxoid, and freeze-dried measles vaccine, in
Shanghai and Lanzhou (Gansu Province), each with an annual produc-
tion capacity of 100 million doses of DPT, 40 million doses of
tetanus toxoid, and 20 million doses of measles vaccine; and
(c) rehabilitate the quality control laboratories in each of the three
sites, using existing buildings.
68.       During negotiations, understanding was reached on:  (i) a timetable
for transitional and final implementation of the revised immunization sche-
dule, as recommended by the WHO preparation team and used to estimate the
annual production requirements of vaccine; and (ii) a monitoring system and
procedures by which MOPH will evaluate effectiveness of the new vaccines.
Assurance was obtained that all domestic production of DPT and measles
vaccines, tetanus toxoid and OPV will, after one year from the start of opera-
tion of the vaccine production centers under the project, meet the interna-
tional guidelines established by WHO on the quality of biological products,
including vaccines.
69.       Drug Quality Control.  This component will assist MOPH to routinely
monitor the quality and safety of pharmaceuticals, both domestic and imported,
and to evaluate the properties and adverse effects of new drugs to be
introduced on the market.
70.       The program developed by HOPH will be implemented in stages,
enabling the manufacturers to progressively raise the quality of the products
and to adjust to higher production standards. To provide the basis for a
further dialogue with Government on the issues of manufacturing, testing,
evaluation and control, project will support the first phase of such a
rehabilitation program and will consist of:
(a) upgrading three municipal institutes for drug quality control in
Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai. Each of them will become the
national referral center for a given category of pharmaceuticals.



- 20 -
Each will assist MOPH to develop quality standards and training for
staff working in the 26 provincial institutes for drug quality
control;
(b) training pharmaceutical administrators and drug quality inspectors
in the Western China Medical University and Zhejiang Medical
University. Enrollment of small groups of 20-30 students for
successive specialized sessions will result in the training of 140
to 280 persons/year in each college; and
(c) developing clinic pharmacology and laboratory facilities in the
clinical pharmacology units of the Medical University of Beijing and
the Medical University of Shanghai. Each unit will undertake tasks
assigned by the Bureau of Drug Policy and Administration for
evaluating the pharmarco-dynamics, toxicity, and clinical effects of
about eight new compounds every year.
71.       Operational Research.  Building upon the assistance provided under
the RHME project, this component will strengthen research programs of NCPM
which are designed to improve disease monitoring, identify new preventive
health strategies, support epidemic prev-ntion stations, and develop the
analysis and exchange of information. The support would include construction,
equipment, foreign technical assistance and overseas fellowships.
72.       The component will also finance an experiment aimed at implementing
and evaluating several new health insurance schemes to contribute to the
formulation of a new national policy on rural health insurance. The experi-
ment would test the feasibility of introducing new rural health insurance
arrangements that would: (a) provide more extensive risk-pooling; (b) be
financially independent of state subsidies yet affordable for the majority of
rural inhabitants; and (c) minimize incentives for unnecessary use of curative
services while retaining incentives for preventive care. The three-year
experiment would be implemented in two rural counties in Sichuan Province
under the overall direction and management of MOPH.  Assurances were obtained
that MOPH would carry out the experiment with the assistance of consultants
and in accordance with terms of reference and time schedule acceptable to the
Association. MOPH confirmed that appropriately qualified staff would be
assigned from both central and provincial levels to direct and manage this
experiment.
Project Costs and Financing
73.       Total project costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated to
be $177.4 million or Y 567.5 million equivalent, net of duties and taxes from
which the project will be exempt. The foreign exchange cost would be
$78.7 million (44Z of the total). Project costs are summarized in the
Loan/Credit and Project Summary. Equipment lists for Rural Health, Drug
Quality Control and Operational Research have been prepared and unit prices
are based on January 1986 world market prices for imported equipmert. The
cost of equipment and materials to be procured locally and not to be financed
by the Bank Group was estimated on the basis of current domestic prices.
Costs for the vaccine production component are estimated on the basis of bid
prices received by MOPH in April 1986.



- 21 -
74.       Physical contingencies of 10% of base costs are provided for
construction, vehicles, equipment and technical assistance except for vaccine
production which includes an allowance of 25Z to reflect the margin of uncer-
tainty attached to the base cost estimate pending award and negotiation of
contracts. Price contingencies are based on the following expected rates of
increase for both domestic and international prices: 7.2% for 1986; 6.8% for
1987 and 1988; 7.0% for 1989; 7.1% for 1990; and 4.0% for 1991. Physical
contingencies total 13% of base costs and price contingencies are 14% of base
costs plus physical contingencies.
75.       Recurrent Costs.  Project investment in rural health will increase
recurrent outlays in the 50 participating counties by about Y 8.2 million com-
mencing in 1988, or about Y 164,000 per county. In 1984, total recurrent
health expenditures in the provinces of Jilin, Sichuan, Hubei and Gansu aver-
aged about Y 1.8 million per county, which is projected to increase to about
Y 2.7 million per county in 1988. The incremental recurrent expenditures
generated by the project represent about 9.5% of total recurrent health expen-
ditures of the above four provinces in 1984, and about 6% of projected total
recurrent health expenditures for the same provinces in 1988. Project invest-
ments in Drug Quality Control and Operational Research components are expected
to generate only minimal incremental recurrent expenditure requirements for
operation and maintenance of new equipment.
Financing Plan
76.       The proposed Bank loan of $15 million and IDA credit of
SDR 57.2 million ($65 million equivalent) will finance 45% of total project
costs, including all foreign exchange costs ($78.7 million) and $1.3 million
or 1.3% of local costs. The local counterpart contribution for the Rural
Health component will be provided by province and county-level budgets. Local
financing for other project components will be provided by the Central
Government.
Procurement
77.       Vaccine Production Component.  Under ICB procedures according to the
Bank Guidelines for Procurement eligible firms were prequalified to bid for
this component in July 1985. Criteria for prequalification included:
(a) experience as a major international producer with production capacity
comparable to that required under the proposed project; (b) commitment to
continued future production so as tc ensure continuity in transfer of techno-
logy; and (c) proven experience of technology transfer to other countries. Of
ten bidders expressing potential interest, two were prequalified for the OPV
production center and two for the DPT/Measles production centers. Technical
terms of reference and detailed bidding documents were reviewed by Bank Group
financed consultants and bids were received in April 1986 and are currently
under evaluation. Contracts are expected to be awarded on a turn-key basis
with the process suppliers responsible for project management, transfer of
technology, plant design, supervision of civil engineering, supply and inspec-
tion of goods, installation and testing of plant equipment, training of plant
personnel, plant start-up and trial operation.



- 22 -
78.       Procurement for Other Project Components.  All procurement of equip-
ment to be financed by the Bank Group (about 70X of total) would be procured
under ICB following Bank Guidelines for Procurement except as described below.
Items would be grouped into bid packages to encourage competition and bulk
procurement. Local manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference
of 15% or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation
of bids. Items and groups of items estimated to cost less than $200,000 and
in aggregate not exceeding $5.0 million equivalent may be procured through:
(a) contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of quotations invited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines; or (b) direct purchase
for proprietary items or where justified by the need for standardization. The
$5.0 million limit is reasonable in light of experience under the REME
project. Prior Bank Group review of contract awards would include all
contracts of $500,000 equivalent or more. Sample post reviews of smaller
contracts would be carried out during regular supervision missions. Remaining
equipment comprises basic laboratory equipment, pharmaceutical and laboratory
materials and standard teaching supplies all of which are available locally
and will be procured by provincial health bureaus for widely scattered local
distribution. This equipment would be procured in accordance with local
procedures and financed by the provincial governments. Selection of technical
assistance consultants would be carried out in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines on the use of consultants. Local training and fellowships will be
organized by MOPH.
19.       Draft equipment lists have been finalized by project institutions
and reviewed by MOPH and the Bank Group. An expert procurement committee has
been appointed by .hOPH to review quantities and to prepare detailed specifica-
ions. Understanding was reached with MOPE during appraisal that this commit-
tee would be appropriately staffed to undertake this task with due regard to
the following criteria: appropriateness of equipment proposed to institu-
tional functions; cost-effectiveness, taking into account expected utiliza-
tion and impact; and ease of operation and maintenance. For items procured
through ICB, MOPE would be responsible for the preparation of bidding docu-
ments, bid evaluation and recommendations for award; the International Tender-
ing Company of CNTIC has been designated to be responsible for advertising and
receiving bids, and for undertaking contract awards on behalf of MOPH. MOPE
would be responsible for taking delivery of equipment and for its distribution
to project institutions. During negotiations, understanding was reached that
procurement of equipment would be appropriately synchronized with the
construction of physical facilities and the training of personnel needed to
operate and maintain it.
80.       Civil Works.  Civil works for rural health facilities, for the
expansion of epidemic prevention stations and for extensions to buildings
under the Drug Quality Control and NCPM components would be procured mainly
through local bidding amongst local companies and would be financed by the
Government. Architectural plans have been prepared by provincial, municipal
and county design bureaus which would also be responsible for supervision of
construction. Sites for facilities have been selected and have been made
available by the respective levels of government. To make improvements in
civil works design for rural health, MOPE is establishing a central unit for
health facilities research and design. Its role would be to study and



- 23 -
synthesize alternative designs and technologies suitable to improve the design
of buildings for health care. It would investigate construction techniques
and layouts to incorporate modern ideas for patient flow, supervision,
management and the delivery of technical services. It would also have the
capacity to produce educational materials and sample designs for provincial
health and design authorities.
Disbursements
81.       The proposed credit of SDR 57.2 million ($65.0 million equivalent)
would be disbursed as follows:
(a) IOOZ of the CIF cost of imported equipment (including vehicles),
100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and
75% of the cost of local expenditures for other items procured
locally;
(b) 10O of the cost of consultants;
(c) 100% of expenditures for local training (tuition, transportation,
room and board) for the Rural Health component;
(d) 10OZ of foreign expenditures for overseas fellowships; and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditure for the vaccine production centers.
The proceeds of the proposed loan ($15 million equivalent) would be disbursed
against item (e) above.
82.       Reimbursement of training and contracts for goods and services, each
valued at less than $200,000 equivalent, will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the supporting documentation for which would be
retained in the World Bank Loan Office (WBLO) in MOPH for revie%. by the Bank
Croup during project supervision missions. In order to reduce the administra-
tive burden of disbursing against a large number of applications MOPH will
open a special account in a bank acceptable to the Bank Group, with an autho-
rized allocation of up to the US dollar equivalent of SDR 5 million. Applica-
tions for replenishment will be submitted, with appropriate supporting
documentation, at quarterly intervals or when amounts withdrawn equal half the
amount of initial deposit, whichever comes sooner. All disbursements for
expenditures for training and consulting services and contracts for goods and
services for amounts of less than $200,000 equivalent will be made from the
Special Account. Disbursements will be completed by the Closing Date of June
30, 1992, one year after the estimated date of project completion.
Accounts and Audits
83.       Accounts of expenditures for the rural health component will be
maintained by the provincial WBLOs under the supervision of the WBLO in the
MOPH. The tinance division of the WBLO will maintain accounts for all other
project components. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that pro-
ject accounts would be maintained according to accounting principles and prac-



- 24 -
tices satisfactory to the Bank Group; that annual audits of project expendi-
tures would be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group; and that the Government would provide the Bank Group with certified
copies of such audited financial statements and the auditors' reports thereon
within six months after the close of each Chinese fiscal year.
Project Organization
84.       Two of the project components - Vaccine Production and Drug Quality
Control - fall under the administrative and technical jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Drug Administration and Policy of MOPH. Within the Bureau, the
Biological Products Control Division will be responsible for implementing the
Vaccine Production component, and the Pharmaceutical Standard and Quality
Control Division for implementing the Drug Quality Control component. The
Rural Health component will be the responsibility of the Pural Health Division
of the Bureau of Medical Administration. The Operational Research component
will be under the technical responsibility of two units reporting directly to
the Minister of Public Health, namely NCPM, and a leading group for Health
Insurance Reform chaired by the first Vice Minister. The Chinese Academy of
Medical Sciences, an institution which is also directly under the Minister of
Public Health, will assist the Bureau of Drug Administration and Policy in
developing the production of OPV in the Kunming Poliomyelitis Institute which
reports to the Academy. The Bureau of Health and Epidemic Prevention will
provide technical guid:race in implementation of provincial epidemic prevention
stations.
85.       Responsibility for project management and coordination as a whole
will rest with the WBLO, which has already been established in the Foreign
Affairs Bureau of MOPH to coordinate the implementation of the RHME Project.
WBLO is headed by a director with a day-to-day responsibility for all aspects
of project execution. He is supported by 25 full-time staff organized into
three divisions responsible for project execution, procurement and finance and
accounts, respectively. WBLO will coordinate the implementation of all
project components, procurement of equipment, administration of technical
assistance and training, project finances (including counterpart funding and
loan/credit disbursements) and overall project progress reports. To this end,
it will have a strong liaison function with the technical departments
responsible for individual project components. Finally, WBLO will be
responsible for the preparation of the project completion report.
Project Management
86.       The project will be directed by a steering group within MOPH,
consisting of the heads of the divisions and bureaus concerned, and co-chaired
by the director of the Foreign Affairs Bureau and the director of the Planning
and Finance Bureau. This group will meet periodically and have responsibility
for setting overall policy guidelines, approving plans and budgets for indi-
vidual project components, monitoring the project's overall progress and
effectiveness, and resolving any issues affecting project goals and imple-
mentation. WBLO is the staff secretariat for this group.



- 25 -
87.       The pattern of national organization and management arrangements
have been replicated in the provincial health bureaus responsible for the
Rural Health component. Specifically, leading groups chaired by the provin-
cial Vice Governors will oversee project implementation, backed up by
provincial WBLOs or project management units in the provincial and county
health bureaus, each comprising five to ten full-time staff headed by a Bureau
Deputy Director. The provincial WBLOs have appraised and approved the plans
and programs developed by the county-level institutions. They will supervise
all aspects of project implementation including those executed by the
provincial epidemic prevention stations. Assurances were obtained that the
MOPH and the provinces concerned would maintain the WBLOs through the project
implementation period with appropriate functions and staffing.
88.       The implementation of the Vaccine Production component will be
managed by the directors of the three institutes concerned, in close collabo-
ration with the Biological Products Division of MOPH which be responsible for
the reassignment of technical staff. During negotiations, understanding was
reached that MOPH would reassign to the three institutes supported by the
project the technical staff they will need to operate the new facilities.
89.       The Drug Quality Control component will be executed by the following
agencies: the Municipal Health Bureaus of Beijing, Shanghai, and Tianjin for
the Drug Quality Control Institutes; the Zhejiang Medical University and
Western China Medical University for the training subcomponent; and the
Medical University of Shanghai and the Medical University of Beijing for the
clinical pharmacology subcomponent. Each implementing agency has set up a
project office headed by the director of the institute/department concerned,
under the leadership of the presidents of the universities and the directors
of the Municipal Health Bureaus. Assurances were obtained that the Borrower
will ensure through a Project Implementation Agreement that the municipalities
of Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin, and Zhejiang Province will maintain the
project offices within the respective local Health Bureaus throughout the
project implementation period and implement project activities under the
supervision of the Drug Administration and Policy Bureau. Execution of a
Project Implementation Agreement satisfactory to the Association will be a
condition of effectiveness.
90.       The Operational Research component will be implemented by the rele-
vant institutes of NCPM. The Director of the NCPM will be responsible for
overall program implementation and will report directly to the Minister of
Public Health. The rural health insurance experiment will be implemented by
the Health Bureau of Sichuan Province under the leadership of the steering
group established in MOPH.
Project Benefits and Risks
91.       The project is expected to improve the health status of about
30 million beneficiaries in rural areas of 50 counties. Nationwide there will
be better coverage, quality and cost-effectiveness of child immunization.
National capability for epidemiological surveillance and research will be
stronger. The Rural Health component will strengthen the capacity of the
county health care delivery system to deliver an extensive range of curative



- 26 -
and preventive services. The effect will be improved efficiency of communi-
cable disease control and chronic disease management, and greater accessibi-
lity to and quality of curative services both in the counties and at inter-
mediate referral locations in rural areas.
92.       The Vaccine Production component will substantially increase the
coverage and cost effectiveness of the national imuinization by raising the
proportion of eligible children covered by a full series of immunizations,
reducing the cost per fully immunized child and improving the efficacy of the
imunization given. It will make possible increased frequency of immunization
sessions at the ultimate delivery site. Anticipated increases in unit produc-
tion cost per vaccine dose are expected to be more than offset by decreases in
wastage in the distribution chain, resulting both from better packaging and
from longer shelf-life associated in part with the substitution of freeze-
dried for liquid vaccines. Substantial improvement in vaccination effective-
ness will also result from the reduction of losses in vaccine potency.
93.       The Drug Quality Control component is expected to improve the capa-
bility of the drug quality control institutes to test the quality of drugs
available on the market. It will also improve the training of pharmaceutical
administrators and quality control inspectors. The result is expected to be a
more effective and extensive system of drug quality control which would help
to ensure that all drugs meet acceptable safety standards.
94.       The Operational Research component will support and improve the
formulation of national policies on disease prevention and on rural health
insurance.
95.       Experience with the RHME project, and with preparation of the pro-
posed project, indicates that MOPH has the management capacity and commitment
needed for successful implementation of the rural health component and, with
the assistance of experienced international vaccine firms, the vaccine produc-
tion component. Consequently no major implementation risks are anticipated.
Implementation of the operational research component, however, does carry
inherent risk in that it may take time for NCPM, a newly created amalgamation
of previously independent research institutes, to shift from laboratory to
policy-focused research. To minimize this risk NCPM's program will be
monitored closely by MOPH and the Bank Group.
96.       In the Drug Quality Control component, interagency coordination
could pose difficulties. The responsibility for drug quality testing lies
with MOPH, whose capacity for pharmaceutical administration would be
strengthened by the project. However, the responsibility for drug manufacture
rests with the State Pharmaceutical Administration which controls the'
pharmaceutical enterprises but is administratively independent from MOPH. Due
to constraints in terms of equipment and technology of manufacturers, the
State Pharmaceutical Administration might be unable to comply with the
standards established by HOPH in the short term. To minimize the risk that
investments in quality control would not be effectively utilized because
industrial capabilities could not keep pace with rapidly improving quality
measurement standards, the project will finance only the first phase of MOPH's
program to raise drug quality testing capacity.



- 27 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 27, 1986
Washington, D.C.
-I



- 28-                                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
CHINA  PLE S R1P. OP - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA Vmsr
CHtNmA  PEOPLr  REP. oF               LnFNECE G OUPS IWIr   AVERAGES). u
m15r                      (HOST RECENT ZSTIMATE)   C
RECEUT              LOU KNCO             HMIDDLE 'NOMN
19i1L       1971kL  ESrTiATELb        ASIA & PAcIIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
mm (NOBSAD SQ. 1)n
TOTAL                              9561.0      9561.0       9561.0
ACRICILTUML                        3237.6      3802.0       3865.9
Gp       CA PITA (on)                     ..          ..        300.0              278.3                     1011.1
111%11 OT SWTIO    M  CAIPTYA
CKLOORAS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         202.0       259.0       441.9               2H5.7                     566.8
POIATIIN   M VTAL ErATItICS
POPULATION.MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 651000.0   815160.0  1019102.0
URBA  POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)        16.4 /e       ..         21.0               22.3                      35.9
POPULATION PROJECrIONS
POPUILATION IN YEAS 2000 (HILL)                           1242.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                              1571.0
POPULATION MMENTM                                            1.6
POPULATION DESSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        68.1        2,.3        106.2              173.8                     386.9
PER Sq. KM. ACRt. LAND            199.8       210.0        260.8              353.3                    1591.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                          36.9        37.6         32.0               ?6.3                      38.2
15-64 YRS                          56.2        57.2        63.1                59.6                      57.7
65 AND AVOW                         4.7         5.0          3.0                4.3                       3.5
POPULATION CXOITN RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               1.1         2.2          1.7                2.0                       2.3
URBIAN                                           .           ..                 4.1                       6.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         39.2 /d     35.7         18.6               27.5                      30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PCR TOUS)         23.5 7d      8.8          7.1               10.2                       9.4
GROSS RIPRODUCTION RATE              2.8 /d      2.3          1.0                1.7                       1.9
FAMILY PLANHIN;
ACCCPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..
USERS CZ OF HARRIED WOHEN)                                  71.0               49.4                      56.5
FOOD LD UTIL
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(19f9-71-100)                         .         100.0        123.0              116.6                     124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY or
CALORIZS (I OF REQUIRNNTS)         9A.6 Id    1Ci.6        119.8              106.3                     115.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           53.0 7d     56.2         69.7               60.1                      60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         12.5 '7     13.3         15.9               1464                      14.1
CRILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          13.5         8.5          2.0                7.3                       7.2
ILALTd
LIF  EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)        41.0 1.    60.9         67.1                60.5                      60.6
INFANT PORT. RArTE (PER THOUS)      165.e 77-    69.0         33.0               69.2                      64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                                                       50.0               44.2                      46.0
URBAN                                ..         ..          85.0               77.2                      57.6
RURAL                               ..           ..         40.0               34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..           ..                 7.8                      50.1
URBAN                               ..          ..           ..                2B.8                      52.9
RURAL                               ..           ..          ..                 5.5                      44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA            7940.0 If  3690.0 /f   1740.0 if            3318.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NUSING PERSON             3830.0      2760.0       1710.0             6690.7                    2464.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            1040.0       760.0       640.0              1039.2                    1112.1
URN                               210.0                    160.0              299.1                     651.4
RURAL                           10140.0          .        1020.0             6028.2                    2596.9
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..           ..                52.3                      41.1
AVERArE SZE OF HUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..          5.1
URBAN                                .                       4 .1
RURAL                               ,,           ,,          5.4
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROON
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBA                                ..          ...
RURAL                                ..   .      ..
PERCENTAGE OF DUELLINCS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                                ..         ..
UL                                   ..          ...
RURAL                               ..          ..



-29 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
MONT                      4SITo    UM "r  sslPu) lb
ncUrT              LOw IRNOHE             MiDDLt E4COIU
19sOtk-     1iwaL  ZS iTIAt           AUIA & PACIftC         ASIA * PAcInc
ADJUITID EROUIT RATIOS
nuxaYl  TOTAL                     109.0       110.0       110.0               92.6                      100.7
mLE                      **     .     ..       123.0              105 .                      104.4
FA                       ..          ..         97.0               79.3                      97.2
lCEaW T TOTAL                      21.0        23.0        35.0               31.3                      47.1
ALz                      *-          ..         '6.0               40.8                      50.6
FALE                     ..          ..         25.0               21.9                      44.8
VOCATIONAL (2 or SaZCOsN  )           ..          ..          2.2                3.2                       18.4
PUVL-TSASUI RATIO
mAR!                                ..         33.0        23.0               31.0                       30.A
SEco                                ..         22.0        16.0               17.4                      22.2
FASSNOZI CARB/THOUSANO POP            ..          ..          0.2                 0.9                      10.1
ADIO RCCERIVEUITHOUSAND POP            ..         14.7      210.1               129.8                     172.9
TV EIcEIVERSITHOURAD POP              ..          0.6        35.3                19.8                      58.5
N     nUSPAPR ("DALY CGRAL
INTERET") CIIJELATION
PER THOUSA1D POPULATION              ..          ..         33.4               25.7                       65.3
CINM   ANUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..         ..          ..                 6.0                        3.4
LAB rmmX
TOTAL LABOR FORC  CTrous)        321646.0   380555.0   470692.0
*ErAL  CPtrCrNT)                   38.3        38.0        37.3               33.2                       33.6
AGRICULIUE (PECTZNn                 .           ..         68.9               69.6                       52.2
INDUSIRT (PERCIT                    ..          ..         18.7               15.8                       17.9
PARfICIPATION RATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                              46.8        45.0        46.1               41.9                       38.9
KALE                               55.9        54.5        53.4                33.6                      50.8
FIMALS                             37.0        35.0        35.1               29.1                      26.8
EcomIC DZPUNC! RATIO                  0.9         1.0         0.8                 1.0                       1.1
INXU DISTR       ON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RzCCntD n
xIcusT SI 0r KousEKOLDs             ..          ..         1z.5 I              .                         .
SICKEST 20x OF  OUcSEODS             ..         ..         39.3  t..                                    4.0
LOEST 20X o0  NOUSKOWS              ..          ..          6.8 I               ..                       6.4
LOWEST 4o0  OF BUSEHOLDS            ..          ..         18.4                ..                        15.5
P        s TAr c
ESTASTD AESOLUTE POVET! ICME
LEZVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URIA                                ..          ..          ..               133.9
RIJUAL                              ..          ..          ..               111.6                     151.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVDRY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..                 ..                       177.9
RURAL                               ..          ,.          ..                61.7                      164.7
ESTIMATDL POP. BSLOW ABSOLUTE
POVRTY INCOME LEVEL CZ)
URUI                                ..          ..          ..                43.8                       23.5
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                51.7                      37.8
VOT AVAILABLE
NOT APLCaBL
/    The group awerage  for each Indlcator ere populaton-w egbhted aritebtic seUn.  Coewra  of cOu1trSeO
or4g ChO Indicator, depeads a availaebilty of date and Sr not unliorm.
/b   al.o. otherwma. noted, "Data for 1960" refer to ay year betwee  1959 and 1961; "It-  for 1970" betwan
1969 nd 1971; ad dara for "mt lecent EatimteO betvee  1981 and 1983.
/c   1964; /d 1955-65 average;  /a 1955-64 average;  /f Senior doctor of weeteen _udicina;   , Distribution
of peopl ranked by househol; per capita LCome. 1979 data;  /b 1980.
JUNE. 1983



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 7
DDEINMONWS OF SOCIAL INDICATOS1
Nous: Althoug the da amre drawn from sumgenerallyjudged the molo authuntasave and reliable. i shouldlsoe noted thil they mAy "ntbe iterniliunally
compable bkeuae of she lack of standardiad defilntins and eommpts ud by different coUntries in eokiting the daut. The dita ar. nonethelesi useful io
descrbe oren of magnitude, indiate trends, and chrctena cetain major differcs beLen couninen.
T. mrefrene group re (lithe sae country greoup of the subect country and (21 a country group with smewhat higher averagr inome Iban the cunt:y
groupofthe subjlctounay tepLt for %gh Incoe Oi Esporters group whre "Middk Income North Afrv uand Middi Eas " chu o beaud fstroner|
socteocultursl awnimtiesl In tbe nrference group data the averaga are populuain weLed anihmtc menrs for each indicalor and shown onl) when majunsty
ofthDcountries in a group hbadamt for that indicator. Se Ihe coveaeofountr samong the indicators dependsn the availability ordut and is not uniform.
caution must be eercised in relating averagm cyone indicator toanother Theaverage are only useful m companng the value ofone inditor at a tame among
the intmry and rerenme group.
AREA (thousand sq.km.j                                           CrdBrth Rat(pwerhsAndj- Numberoflivebirhsintheyear
Tote-Total surace area comprising land area and inland waers     per thousand of mid-year populatioin  1960. 1970. and 1953 data.
1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crue Death ace t(per chowed)  Number of deaths in the year
Agrcfstiwd-Estinate or agricultural ara used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, paguresm market and kitchen prdens or to  Crers Reprodu n Ratc-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive peritd if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates, usually five-year averagn ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. cakulated by same conversion melhod as World l           Plandin-Accepiers. Annual (rhu,azandj .nnual  iii
Bank Atlas (1951I-83 bastsl; 1953 da- ta.                        her ofacceptors of btnh-control devices under auspie 1ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPI[TA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      FstlyPls      -LJser  ( mperntof nrrkdwivnj  Thepernen
petroleum. natural gas and hydro- nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married womnen of child-bearing age who ate practicing or
tricityj toi kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 196U1. 1970. and  whose husbands are practictng arty formn of contrA. eptitn. Wooicer.
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49 alt hough for
some countries contraceptive usage is mcaured lt .sthri age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Toadl Popula. Mid-Yew (hhoutmndfl)-As of July 1;1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Indexof ood PdrodcionPer Capita (lW9-7I =Ill))  Indes .fIjrg
Urba  Population lperce   of tocol)- Ratio of urban to tottl    capita annual production of all fod commoithies Prodluction
population; different definitions of urban Areas may affet coepar-  excludes animal feed and seed fur agrmiulturc laihd curnninditte
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary cosnmnodittes (e.g sugarcane instead cif sugar'
ieOn   oectsion                                                  which are edihbl and contain nutncnts (e.g aslrcc and tea arc
Ppidation in year 2000-The projction of population for w.        excludedl: the vomprise cereals. root crops. pucss. oil seeds.
made for each econom- separatdy. Staning with information on     vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livesto.k. and
total population by age and sex. fertily rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer pnt.e weights: 146 1f5, 194i,. and
were projected at five-ycar intervals on the basis of gneralized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per C af spp yof Calries preren efrequirewarsj  Comput-
StationarJ populaoon-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calone equivalent of net food supplies availabk -in countr
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Avatlable supplie Luiniprise dontestic proclu--
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports leIss expons. and changes in stock. Net suppltes
(net reproduction rate - 11. In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food procesing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero The stationar) population  estimated by FAO based on phstological needs flr normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charactenstitcs of  and health considering environmental temperature  kbdy vweights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate ordecline of fertility  age and sex distribuLion ofpopulation. and allowing Ill pertent for
rate to replacemnwt level,                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970t and 19X' data
Population Momentuw-Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capia Sspply of Ptein (ra   per dy;  l'rtieial ci.nlent .l
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  percapta net supply of rfood per day Net supplol 1.u1.l i. delinel
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes esiabhlthed h  I SDl-
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for mintmum allovances of htJ grant' Lf t0.itjl pi.tC11t r-c:
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 2 grants of animal and pule proicit. ..i vthich 11 1rran.
the year I. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lastsr tlii thoc ol
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams o.f animal proitin as an
Idation Dry                                                      average for the world. proposed by FAO in thc Third WLSIJ 1I I
Per sq.yk.-Mid-year population per square kilumeter (100 he -    Supply: 19b 1. 970 and 1982 data.
tars) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per CaaProtein Supplybob AninEiaI Pulse- Protein supply
Per sg.km. agwultvral /art-Computed as above for agricultural    of food denved from animals and pulse in grams perday. i9hl 65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Popu,aion Age Structue (percar)- Children t0-IJ yearsl. work-    Child(ag 4 e         s I-u Dath Race (pr  o d;  Ntitnr .. dc.in-ot
ingage(I5-64years).andretired (65 years and overias percenlage   children aged 1-4 vears per thousand childreii in the s:nmc age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a gien year For most devEloping crtintrie, da..i cri;cd
Fopela tien Growth Rce (percentD-tosal-AnnLial growth rales of   from life tabhles 1900. 1970 and 191X3 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Popouaon Growth Rate (pmeret J-rurha- Annual growth rates       Life Erpectray at Birch (years)  Number of %ear, a nershorn
of urban population for 1950-6O. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would linc if prevailing patterns of mortaltt! lor all pLoplr



-31 -                                        Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of or its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  PpA-tsecher Radio - primary, and secondars-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 1983 data,                                      roled in primary and econdary levels divided by numbers or
blaJ  Mertat Rte (per th asa)-Number of infants who die        teachers in the correspooding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousad live binhs in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 19B3 data.                                CONSUMPflON
A     tes -    Water pwaa of                 arawa, ad         PuSieWer Ce's (per thasad pCpaati eotaj--Pmssengea can corm
tr_i-Number of people (total. urbaon and rurd) with resonable  prime motor cars sting kl  than eight persons; exclukk . mibul-
accens to sale water upply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hearest and military vehidces.
untrated but uncontaminated water sch as that from protected   Am& Rwrs (per thaasapapaltmj-All types of receiver
borehol, springs and sanitary wdes) a percentages of their rspac-  for radio broadcasts to generl public per thouand of populmiion;
tive population. In an urban arm a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensd receivers in countrie  and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  mgstmioo  dio sets was in effect; data for Tent years may
as being within reasonable access or that house. In rural areas   re     ornradio sets was intef   atorirec   yeasi ma
ronmbleacrs would imply that the housewife or members of the   not be corabl snce mos countres abolshed licnsing
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVReeewn (per thassndpystiaml- TV receivern for broadcast
in etcihing the family's water needs                           to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Aces ertDspsap   pOputi.)-tl1. ari  mreceivers in countres and in years when registration of FV sets was
Access to Ecrwef Disos  (pete  oj                             in _"tz 
ad rral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  In efect.
excemta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  wpper (ti         (per thedppai) Shw  te ave
Excreta disposal may indude the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interet newspaper.' dehnui as a
without treatment, of human exereta and waste-water by water-  penodical publication devoted prirmarily to recording  meneral news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at least four times a week
Pepalatiom per Physkeiaa-Pfpulation divided by number of prac-  Cutes.  Amaal A nteaLace pr Cpt. per Yer- - Ba%cd un the
tising physicians qualified from a medcal school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
P,pahaim per Nurin Persa-Populabion divided by number of       drivc-in cinemas and mobile units
practicing male and female graduate nurses assistant nures.
pructical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
A.sd   r  Hexospr  led-meal, wins ad rwal-Fbpulation          Toral Lake r Foircr (elwasamd) -Economically active persons in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respecive number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and pisate general and specialized  students. etc. covering population or all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospital are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and I9h3 data.
permanently staffed by at atst one physician. Establishments prov-  fmik (jp}erraf-Femak labor force as pereentage of total labor
iding principally custodial car are not induded. Rural hospitals.    fore.
however, include health and medical centers not pennaneintiy staffed  Agrk-ubw  lpercsat--L-abor force in farming. forniti% haniian
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentae of total labor forne; 196. 1970 and 9aMt
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities                                          Imbrtry (peremrj-Labor force in miniag. construtimu,. .1.1ll.,
Adssiaa per Hospkta Beat-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. valer and ps as percenidge o1 until labir
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
P -eiair Rate (terceatr-eeral, malk, asffemar-Partia3pation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as totaL male and female boir flmt.L
A-veq  Si:e cf loehod (pes per hmseli-te tal, aria,            as percentages of total. make and female population uf all agcm
wdrw&al-A householdconsistsofa group of individuals who sharc  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation ratesrcfectingage-sex structurmofthe population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
AveraWe Nasber ef Pess per Reom-eal, worbam  ad rural          Eceemne Depdewy Rarw--Ratio of population under i Y and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 andover. to the working age population tthose aged 15-Mi
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Prcatg of Duags w1 Eletricitp-reaal,. ara. ad rura -           Pr rcrmdzge of Total Dispoa ble Inome (hatk in csh ad Lind)
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total housec
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4wdsedf Elreierrm Rarios                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of pimeic)
Prnmarv chool - total, male amd female-Gross total, male and  levels, and should he interpreted with considerahle caution
female enrollmen of al ages at the primary kvel as percentags of  Etimatwed Abselaeevesy l1ce    Level ('SIper cita)--wamt
respective primary school-age populations. Whik many countries  ad rural--Absolute poverty income level as that income csel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not- The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sonm  countries with universal  Estiwed Rdi Poverty hi-ome Level I  1SS per ca.pu-u-ar*ba
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since som   ad rwarl--Rural relative povert> income lesel is o ne-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal incomc of the countr) Urahn level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural lc%el with adjustment fior higher o .
Serrondar school - total, nmae and Iemd--Computed as above:    living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimiated Ppatieo  Below Absoltre Powr   1m  Lewre iper-
mary irstruction: provides general. vocational or teacher training  cent) -war     d rwa- PNrcent of population turhan and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor"
ence courns are generall) excluded
eraiamnal Enrollment Ipercen: of weanarnrj--Vocauional inctitu-          Comparative Ana .hus ..n I Miia L)nision
tions incdude technical, industrial or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             Junr 198i



- 32 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Populatieo       1,019 mlilLos (id-19M3)
CNP per capital  5300 (1983)
CHINA - ECONOMIC ZNOtCATOU
Amowat - 196i                            Annual growth races (2)
miollion U53 at               Actual                                      Pro lecaed
Indcatcor                  currant pricas)/b 1980  1981   19U2  1983   1914/a  -1965       190      18       9e      1969    19T0
MP.OAI, ACCOUNTS /a
Crooo dmetic product          201,260       6.6   4.9   7.8   9.6   14.0    10.4          6.8      6.8      6.8     6.8      6.6
AaricuLtur.                  100,430     -1.7    6.4   11.2   9.0  13.9        6.0      4.9      4.9      4.9    4.9       4.9
natety                      125,010      12.3   2.3   7.3  11.4  16.6    14.0          7.7      7.7       7.7    7.7       7.7
Ssrvtcoa                     550820       8.2   6.9   3.3   6.5    7.7        10.0      7.9      7.9      7.9    7.9       7.9
Coneaptito                     198.190      9.1    5.2   5.9   9.0   12.5    12.5         8.9     7.4       7.4    7.4       7.1
Cross 1awessnt                 83.100       1.3  -1.0   10.9  15.2  20.7    11.0          2.3     4.8       4.6    5.1       5.7
Exports of CUPS /a             26,720      17.8  16.7   0.6   9.5  13.0          3.0      8.9      0.8      8.8    6.0       o.8
Imports of CGPS 7a             26.750      16.1  -6.7  -5.7  28.1  25.9    43.1           0.0     5.0       5.9    6.0       6.2
Gros nottonal saviap           85.870      -0.2    3.6  17.0  12.0  17.0         5.0      2.4      5.1       5.1    5.6      6.Z
P7ICtS
CD7dflator (1980 - 100)                   100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6   113.1   118.7   124.7   131.0   137.5   164.4
Excilnag  race (YuaIB/USS)                 1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32     2.84     2.84     2.84     2.84    2.84     2.84
Sbare of CDP at uarckt prices (t)                Average annual increaas  (2)
(at curr nt pricaa)                        (at constant 1961 prce)
1960  1970   1975  1980   985   1990 W1960-70  19_70-9
GroCs de_o*t1c product /a     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        6.1      5.2      6.6     9.0      7.3      S.6
Agriculture                  23.0  35.0  32.8  32.0  34.2  31.3             6.7      3.4      3.3    10.1      5.0      4.8
Industry                     48.0  4!.0  45.8  48.0  47.9  49.9             7.8      7.5      9.9     9.4      8.6      7.4
Sardceo                      29.0  24.0   21.4  20.0  17.9  18.8            3.4      4.5      5.4     6.6      8.2      7.5
Conaeptin                      62.4  70.8  69.1  71.3  66.7  69.3             6.1      4.7     1i.4     8.1      6.4      6.8
Gross ir to   t                3;.8  29.2  31.1  30.0  34.4  30.9             9.5      6.9      9.7    11.3      5.1      6.1
Exports of CUPS                 4.8   2.8   5.3   7.1   7.7   8.5           -1.5      10.8      5.7    12.3      8.0      7.7
Imports of GWS                 5.0   2.7   5.5   8.4   8.8   8.6             1.Z    13.9    13.0    12.2        8.4      7.4
Gross nacional savings         37.7  29.2  30.9  Z8.9  33.6  30.7             0.1      6.7      7.2    14.0      4.8      4.2
As t of CDP
1957          1970           LS0            19-83          1904
PITBLIC FINANCE
Currant revanues                                  28.7           29.6           30.6           27.8          26.7
Current expandLtures                              15.1           15.7           23.1           21.6          20.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                        13.6          43.9           t7.5           +6.2           +44.
Capital axpandtcura                               13.7           13.3           11.0            7.8           8.2
ForeLga ftnanctng                                  0.7            n.e.           0.5           0.2            0.3
1960-70    1970-75     1975-80     t980-84     1984-09     t989-94
'VITER INDICATORS
CGP growth ratr (S)                               6.1         5.1         4.4          9.2        7.2        6.4
GUP per capita growth race (2)                    3.5         2.9         5.2          7.9        6.1        5.5
Energy consumption growth rate (2)               -0.1         9.2         5.8          4.1        5.3        4.8
TCOE                                              3.3        4.7          5.1          3.8       4.0         4.6
mragnal savings rate                              0.4         0.4         0.3          0.3        0.2        0.3
aport elastticty                                  0.2         2.7         2.0         1.4        1.1         1.2
/a ODat for 1981 and 1982 are fros different sources; data for 1932 axcluds r_-exports.
East AsIa and Pacific Regional Office
February 7. 1985



- 33 -                                                    ANNEX r
fepulatlcs    a  1 019 %tLLLon (mid-1983)                                                                          Page 6  of 7
CUP per capitat  $300 C 1963)
CHTNA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount - 1934                  mnueL growth rates (2) (at constant prices)
WILLm=  I$ at                            Actual                          tOct d
currtet price)         1980     1981      1962     T933      1964     1985 E    la
IA  TRM  /a
lrchamdise exporre                         25.020              14.8     17.3      5.5      10.1      10.4      2.8      8.7
Prilmry                                  11.410               1.5     -1.4      3.9      14.6      9.6       3.3      6.8
bnmufacturea                             13.610              32.2     36.2      6.6       7.0     11.1       2.4     10.4
thrchnd.le lmperto                         26,740               6.8      7.2      0.2      29.7     22.3      47.1      6.2
Food                                      2.330               9.1     68.3     42.9    -30.9    -24.9       14.4      7.1
Petrolesu                                   130             52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5       30.1       0.0     35.5
achinery and equipment                     .420              16.4     19.0    -41.7      34.7     82.3      58.2      S.1
Others                                   15.860               0.9   -13.5       7.1      71.7     16.8      19.9      6.3
t rt price Index (1980-100)                                   100.0    102.7     98.7      88.8     90.5      83.0    126.0
Import price ladex C1980-100)                                100.0    104.5      89.2      76.7     78.4      77.3    IZ.
Tores of trade lindr (L980-100)                               100.0     98.3    110.7    115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Composicion of _rebandise crade C7)                    Average anual incresae (t)
(at cu(Stpie.                                      u constatprces)
1978        198curt  rI98           1990       1980V-8                      198449   198-94
Exportu                         100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0        10.8               7.9                 7.6
P-imry                         53.4         46.6        45.6        42.1        6.7                6.4                 6.1
N-ufaccureo                    46.6         53.4        54.4        57.9       15.2                9.4                 8.2
Imprts                          100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0       14.9                8.5                 7.5
Food                           12.8         17.4         8.7         9.7       13.9                8.9                 8.5
-trolem                         0.5         0.4          0.5         0.9       13.0               17.2                16.1
vachinney and <quipmnc         18.9         29.2        31.5        33.3       23.6               12.0                 6.8
Others                         67.9         53.0        59.3        56.1       20.5                6.7                 7.5
Share of trade wLvt         Share of trade with         Share of trade with
industrial                  deveLoping                 the USSR and
countl as (S)               countries tS)            Eastern bo   (S)
179      t98       1983     1977      1980     1983      L977      1_       19a3
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                    36.4      44.7     42.1      46.8     48.7      53.2     16.8       6.6      4.7
Imports                                    63.1      73.6     69.0      20.7     19.7      24.5     16.2      6.7       6.5
/a Bsed on custom statistics. Exports. f.o.b.. Imports. c.l.f.
East AsLa and Pacific Ragional Office
November 22. 1985



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
Popation          1.019 eliltis  (.14-1983)
GNP per capital S200 (1983)
CINA - BALC  OF PATMnT. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AMD OC9T
(Mi-lian  or USS at current price.)
ACUaI Plrected
Inditcor                                     1978    1979    1980    1981        1982       1983      1984        198       1990
SALANCE Of PAINEIIT
ZEports of goode and nontsctor vervicge  10,370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23.637    23,186    26,716           26,840   38,590
Of WbchIe  lXrchood1e f.o.b. t            9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027    21,125    20.707    23.905         23,900   52,130
Imports of good  and noafactor service.  11,608  17.759  24,058  23,440    18,900    20,711    26,748           38,290   63,180
Of which:  1lrch.ande* f.o.b. /a         10,745  16,212  22,049  21.047    16,876    18,717    23,890         35,150   56,950
Net factor Income fre  abread                  -8     -77    -117    -200         452      1,253     1.620       1.140     -8O0
Net tramohers                                 597     656      640     464        530       436        304         300      300
Current accontm  balance                     -709  -2,197  -3,211   1,241       5,719     4,164      1,892    -10,010   -5,140
Private direct inve_ntrt (nat)                  -       -       57     265        430        636     1,100       1,650    1,950
Offlcial grant oad (not)                        -       -       21      156       44          75       137         140       14D
ILT loan. (Get)                               549   3,515   1,069       310       301      .927       -145           0    4,450
Dleburso_nte                                549   3,895   1,670   1,659       2,481     i.600        718         950    6.390
Amortization                                  -      *0      601   1,348      2,180       673        863         950    1,940
Other capital tb                             -628  -1,021   2,455       47       -115    -1.672    -2,689        2,330         -
OCange In r aer-ve
C"-" indicating tncrear e)                  788    -597    -391  -1,925    -6,291    -4,130          -93       5,890   -1,400
Inemrnatioal reaurvem                       6,677   7.274   7,665   9.590    15,U1    20#011    20,106          14,220   23,500
of which. Cold /c                         5.120   5.120   5.120   5.120       5,120     5,120      5,120       5.!20    5.120
amerv.. as uoath. of impora                   6.2     4.5      3.5     4.8       10.1       11.7       9.1         4.5      4.2
rXnTIIAL CApITAL AND DIRT /d
Gross disbursement                              .       ..      ..       ..
Official grant.
conceamional loan                                         ..       ..        ..       ..
IDA                                        ..      ..       ..      ..         ..        . 
Other                                      ..      ..       ..      ..
Nonconcesmsonal loan.                         .               ..       .         ..
Official export credits                    .       ..       .                   ..
LIED                                                                           .... .. .
Other multilateral                                 ..       .       ..         ..        ..
Prwate 
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              549   4,364   3,433   5.261       5.562     6.397      6,340
Official                                                    .       ..
Private
Undisburmad debt
Debt service
Total service payment.                            .                    ..             ..
Inte rest
Poyunes ma Z of exports                     0.4     2.7     6.3      9.0       11.4       4.9        5.0
Average L         oterat rate of naw loans ()   -       -        -       -          -          -         -
Average mturity of new loans (years)
/a  Data for 197B-81 &re not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exporte.
/b  Includes not une of iHF credit and net fLow of short-tern capital.
77 Valued at USS402/troy ounce.
7i Excludes short-term loans (one year or less).
Eane Asia and Pacific Regional Office
November 22. 1985



-35                                             ANNEX rI
STATUS OF bANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THt PEOPLE'S REPUML'C OP CHINA
A. STATEMENT OIP RNU LOABS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1986)
Loan or                                                                                   USS million
Credit                                                                           Amount (leoa cancellations)
Number   Ytear  Borrower                     Purpose                             Bank    IDA    Undisburced/a
2021/1167    1981  People'a Republic of China  Univeraity Development               1n0.0    100.0        10.5
1261    1982  People's Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture           -      60.0        15.2
2207    1982  People's Republic of China  Three Ports                           69.0       -         21.q
1297    1982  People's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research             -      75.4        17.9
2226/1313    1982  People's Republic of Chine  Industrial Credit                     40.6     30.0        26.5
2231    1983  People's Republic of China  Dsqing Petroleum                     162.4       -         67.8
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum           100.8       -         66.2
2261/1347    1983  People's Republic of China  ltilongjiang Land Reclamation         25.3     45.0        18.4
1411    1983  People's Republic of Chins  Polytechnic/TV University               -      R5.n       45.1
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                   -      10.0        4.7
1417    1984  People's RepubiLc of China  Rubber Development                      -     100.n       54.8
2382    1984  People's Republic of Chins  Lubuge Hydroelectric                 145.4       -        114.1
2394    1984  People's Republic of Chins  Railway                              220.0       -        117.0
1462    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                            -      50.0        33.1
1472    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Health A Medical Educ.            -      85.0       5S.0
2426    1984  People's Republic of Chins  Kar aay Petroleum                     99.5       -         77.7
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of Chine  Second Industrial Credit             105.0     70.0       131.1
2444/1500    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education         45.3     23.5        35.7
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research            -      25.0        15.4
1551    1985  People's Republic of Chins  Second University Development           -     145.0       159.7
2493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                         117.0       -        111.1
2501    1985  People's Republic of China  Changeun (tuan) Coal Mining          126.0       -        123.4
1557    1985  People's Republic of China  Seeds                                   -      40.0       43.0
1578    1985  People's Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                      -      80.0       90.2
2539/1594    1935  People's Republic of Chin   Highway                               42.6     30.0        65.8
2540    1985  People's Republic of Chins  Second Railway                       235.0       -       235.0
2541    1985  People's Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitation and          7.0n      -        96.5
EnerRy Saving
1605    1985  People's Republic of China  Foreatry Development                    -      47.3       49.3
2579/1606    1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development  17.0        75.0        98.5
2580    1985  People's Republic of China  Wetyuan Gas Field Technical           25.0       -         25.0
As istance
1642    1986  People's Republic of Chins  Second Rural Credit                     -      90.0       9C 0
2659/1663/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit               75.0     25.0       100.0
1647ii 1986  People's Republic of China  Second Technical Cooperation            -      20.n       2n.n
16717b  1986  People's Republic of Chins  Provincial Univereities                 -     120.0       120.0
Total                                                                             1,847.9  1,431.2
Total now held by Rank and IDA                                                    1,847.9  1,431.2
Total Undisbursed                                                                 1,337.H  1,019,8    2,357.6
3. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1986)
Amount in USS million
Tear    Obligor                                     Type of business               Loan     Equity      Total
1965    Cuangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.       Automobile                        15.0      2.0        17.0
Total Crone Comitments                                                               15.0      2.0        17.0
Less cancellations. terminationa.
repayent and sales                                                                   -        -           -
Total Cosritments now held by IFC                                                    15.0      2.0        17.0
Total Undishursed                                                                    15.0      2.0        17.0
/a  As credits are denominated in SDRe (since IDA Replenishment VI), undisbursed SDR credit balances are con-
verted to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR. In some cases. thereforp,
the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount
expressed in dollars.
lb  Not yet effective.
Notes: (1) The status cf the projects listed in Part A is described in a separete report on all Rank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and eireulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
(2) Subsequent to the above date of Statement A, the following projects were approved:
Third Railway - loan of $360.0 million and credit of SDR 63.0 million (S70 million
equivalent).approved on April 15, 1986:
Freshwater Fieherles - credit of SDR 52.0 million (S0 million equivalent).
approved on May 6, 1986.
Tienjin Port - loan of $130.0 million. approved On May 6, 1986.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:    1 year
(b)  The project was prepared by:                       MOPH
(e)  Date of first presentation to the Bank Group:    July 1984
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project:   October 1984
(e)  Appraisal mission:                                 July 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                        April 1986
(g)  Planned loan/credit effectiveness                  August 1986
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) All domestic production of DPT and measles vaccines, tetanus tozoid
and OPV will, after one year from the start of operation of project
plants, meet the international guidelines established by WHO on the
quality of biological products, including vaccines (para. 68);
(b)  MOPE will carry out the rural health insurance experiment with the
assistance of consultants and in accordance with terms of reference
and time schedule acceptable to the Association (para. 72); and
(c) Execution of a Project Implementation Agreement satisfactory to the
Association would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 89).



3BRD 19238
6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
S O V I E T        U N  I O  N                                                                                  ._    w' ,,
/                                      M  O   N   CGO    I  I  A               g      00          I  A            ,.G 0LIA
fI" X/:-tr:6  7I' _C_ _ _       _.L                                              r ItI.C r   ?   ''"  LDEMOCRATIC
AFCHAtSIAN              v r n        s    mo ooo         o    o      xr    MO@: JO               ,    7        9            .. 9 ~~~~~~~OF KREA            t        A
a.    U.                                                                                                                                                                    OPLES >    >   p   :To    w  >    e   ,   :,_,O    -REPUBLIC
"~C   McI~U~II  t~                                a                                 4.......I
tffSF_rEr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                                                *      H
CHINA                                  ,r Nc, brS.s  t,                     =~9r  trrft  rf'  tL,1,               r  ,- rt,_,Z
RURAL HEALTH AND                                        a iUA      V                                                nPgM           U#-
PREVENTIVE MEDICINE PROJECT    j   
-                                 -V                  P-.d-niU-
D~~q Gj..Rty C..t.Ij .                                                       IA VI
RURAL HEALTH AND                      '1  N.> eURM
* DEORA'       , ,..                               C  "
o aao slo ~~~~~~~IIx REPULOIC5 YtEAINDEAM AM                                     J ;), HLICPNF
JUNE *gac



