CREDIT NUMBER 1713 CHA
Project Agreement
(Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GANSU PROVINCE
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
HUBEI PROVINCE
JIANGXI PROVINCE
JILIN PROVINCE
SHANDONG PROVINCE
SICHUAN PROVINCE
and
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated                              1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1713 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             _J   %5         , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
GANSU PROVINCE, HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE, HUBEI PROVINCE, JIANGXI
PROVINCE, JILIN PROVINCE, SHANDONG PROVINCE, SICHUAN PROVINCE
and NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION (hereinafter collectively
called the Local Entities).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of China (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 57,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Local Entities agree to undertake such obligations toward tL3
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Local Entities, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Local Entities declares its
commitment tc the objectives of the Project as set forth in Sche-
dule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out its respective part of Part A of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-2-
administrative, financial, eng:Lneering, public health and educa-
tional practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) With respect to that part of the Project for which
each of the Local Entities is financially responsible, such Local
Entity shall make adequate and timely budgeting provisions for
the implementation of such part.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services required for Part A
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Local Entities shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Local Entities shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the perfor-
mance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Each of the Local Entities shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Creaie, or the performance by
such Local Entity of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Each of the Local Entities shall maintain its
World Bank. Loan Office within its provincial Health Bureau with
appropriate functions and staffing.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Local Entities shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound


﻿-3-
accounting practices its operations and financial condition in
respect of activities related to Part A of the Project.
(b) Each of the Local Entities shall, in respect of activi-
ties related to Part A of the Project:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association Ghall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, each of the Local Entities shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and


﻿-4-
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Local Entities thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Local Entities of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿-5-
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Gansu Province:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Lanzhou, Gansu Province
People's Republic of China
For Heilongjiang Province
Provincial Bureau of Health
Harbin, Heilongjiang Province
People's Republic of China
For Hubei Province:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Wuhan, Hubei Province
People's Republic of China
For Jiangxi Province:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Nanchang, Jiangxi Province
People's Republic of China


﻿-6-
For Jilin Province:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Changchun, Jilin Province
People's Republic of China
For Shandong Province
Provincial Bureau of Health
Jinan, Shandong Province
People's Republic of China
For Sichuan Province:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
People's Republic of China
For Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region:
Regional Bureau of Heaith
Yinchuan, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
People's Republic ol China
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any of the Local Entities, may be taken or
executed by a Vice Governor of such Local Entity or such other
person or persons as such Vice Governor shall designate in writ-
ing, and each of the Local Entities shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectLIvely but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By(t                  0001 Q ae t\ee(
Ad-d     Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GANSU PROVINCE
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
HUBEI PROVINCE
JIANGXI PROVINCE
JILIN PROVINCE
SHANDONG PROVINCE
SICHUAN PROVINCE
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION
Authorized Representative


