Report No. 974-BR
Appraisal of Second Agro-Industries
Credit Project Brazil
FILE COPY
June 29, 1976
Project Department
Latin America & Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         =       Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Exchange Rates:  US$1.00                      C cr$ 10.65 Ll
Cr$ 1.00            =       US$ 0.094
Cr$ 1 million       =       US$ 941,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
2
1 hectare (ha)                       =        10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2             =        0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )             =        0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                      =        2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                          =        0.26 gallons
1,000 kg   1 metric ton (ton)        =        0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEP       =  Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado do Parana S.A. (State
Development Bank of Parana)
BADESP      =  Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo (State
Development Bank of Sao Paulo)
BANDES      =  Banco de Desenvolvimento do Espirito Santo (State Deve-
lopment Bank of Espirito Santo)
BB          =  Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BDMG        =  Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (State Development
Bank of Minas Gerais)
BNDE        =  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico (National Bank
for Economic Development)
BRDE        =  Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul (Regional
Development Bank for the States of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana,
and Santa Catarina)
/1 Average exchange rates (selling):
1973                   1974         1975           June 1976
1 US$ = 6.126             6.794          8.128            10.65



- 2 -                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CEBRAE     =  Centro Brasileiro de Assistencia Gerencial a Pequena e Media
Empresa (center for managerial assistance to small and medium enterprises)
DIPOA      =  Departmento de Inspecao de Produtos de Origem Animal (Ministry
of Agriculture's agency for the inspection of animal products)
EMBRAPA    =  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Federal Agency
for Agricultural Research)
EMBRATER   =  Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Federal Agency for Agricultural Extension)
FUNDAG     =  Fundo Especial de Desenvolvimento Agricoa (Central Bank's
Agricultural Development Fund)
FUNDEPE    =  Fundo de Desenvolvimento da Pecuaria (Central Bank's Livestock
Development Fund)
GECRI      =  Gerencia do Credito Rural e Industrial (Central Bank's Depart-
ment for Rural and Industrial Credit)
GERUR      =  Gerencia do Credito Rural (Central Bank's sub-department for
Rural Credit)
GESPE      =  Gerencia do Credito Industrial e Programas Especiais (Central
Bank's sub-department for Industrial Credit and Special
Programs)
ICM        =  Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias (value added tax)
ORTN       =  Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional (cost of living
indexed Treasury bonds)
PIS        =  Programa de Integracao Social (Social Integration Program)
PROTERRA   =  Program for the Redistribution of Land and Stimulation of
Agro-business in the North and Northeast
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Report Approved By
Agriculture Division III:  P. Greening
Report Prepared By          C. Cronberg, G. Kaddar and G. Soto (Bank)
W. Heron and G. Kawata (Consultants)
Report Checked By           0. Saadat
Date                        June 29, 1976
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGIONAL OFFICE
REGIONAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
This document has a restricted distribution and nmy be used by recipients onily in the performance
of their oihciSl duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclised without Worid Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUTSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Summary and Conclusions .......................   i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION  ...... ..............                           1
II.   BACKGROUND  ....................................              1
A.   Agriculture in the National Economy           ......    1
B.   Agriculture in the Project Area  ....         ......    3
C.   Government Agricultural and Industrial
Credit Policies  ........................            3
D.   The Banking System  .......................             4
E.   The Structure of Agro-industries            .........   6
F.   Government Policies for Agricultural
Production and Food Processing  .... .....           7
G.    Support Services  .........................            8
III.   PERFORMANCE UNDER THE FIRST AGRO-INDJSTRIES
PROJECT  .....................................             9
A.   Introduction ..............................             9
B.   Lending Operations  .......................    10
C.   Commitment of Funds and Disbursements  ....            11
D.   Impact of the Loan  .......................    11
IV.   THE PROJECT  ...................................    12
A.   Brief Description  ........................    12
B.   Detailed Features  ........................    13
C.   Cost Estimates   ...........................    14
D.   Financing   ................................    15
E.   Procurement   ..............................    16
F.   Disbursement   .............................    16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team which visited
Brazil in May-June 1975. The team was composed of Messrs. C. Cronberg,
C. Kaddar, and C. Soto (Bank), and W. Heron and G. Kawata (Consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Pa g_No.
V.   ORGANIZATION ANPD MANAGEMENTr  .....   ..............   16
A.   Project Administration  ....     ...............   16
B.   Participating Banks  .....     .................   17
C.  Project Fund and Project Account  .........   18
D.   Lending Policies and ]'rocedures  .... ......   18
E.  Accounts and Auditing  .....      ...............   20
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND OPERATING
RESIJLTS  .....................................   20
A.   Production  ...............................    20
B.  Marketing   ................................    20
C.  Prices   ...................................    21
D.   Operating Results  ...      .....................   22
rITI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .....     ...............   23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... ......   25
SCHEDULE A
ANNEXFS
1.  General Economy and the Agricultural Sector
Table 1  Selected National Accounts Statistics
Table 2  Projections of Total and Economically
Active Population
Table 3  Value of Selected Agricultural Exports
Table 4   Estimated Production. Consumption and
Demand of Agricultural Products in 1975
and 198n
Table 5  Area Planted, Production, Average Yield
and Crop Value for Selected Crops in the
Project Area (1973)
Table 6  Income Elasticities of Demand for Selected
Food Products
Table 7  Demand Projections
Table 8   Projection of Supply and Demand



TABLE OF CONTENTS - ANNEXES (Continued)
2.   Industrial and Agricultural Credit
Chart 1   The Brazilian Financial System
Table 1   Participating Banks:  Main Balance
Sheet Data
Table 2   Participating Banks:  Nominal
Profitability and Ratios
Table 3   BADESP:  Estimated Profitability of
Loan Portfolio -- Industrial and Other
Loans Compared to Rural Loans
3.   Subloans IJnder the First Project
4.   Meat Processing
Appendix 4-1   Beef Processing
Table 1   Cattle Herds by States and by Regions
Table 2   Estimated Beef Production, Consumption
and Exports
Table 3   Composition of Beef Exports, 1973-74
Table 4   Beef Exports
Table 5   Exports of Frozen Beef
Table 6   Exports of Chilled Beef
Table 7   Exports of Dried Beef
Table 8   Exports of Processed Beef
Table 9   Export Quotas for 1972 and 1973
Table 10  Beef Export Price Projections
Table 11  Estimated Supply of Cattle for
Slaughter in the Project Area
Table 12  Situation and Capacity of Beef Processing
Plants in the Project Area
Table 13  Cattle Herd and Slaughter Capacity
of Beef Processing Plants
Table 14  Model A - Beef Processing Plant,
Capacity: 300 Head/Day, Production for
Domestic Market
Table 15  Model B - Beef Processing Plant,
Capacity: 600 Head/Day, Production for
Export and Domestic Markets
Appendix 4-2   Pork Processing
Table 1   Pork Production in the Project Area
Table 2   Swine Population and Slaughter Rate
in Rio Grande do Sul
Table 3   Swine Herd and Inspected Slaughter in
Santa Catarina and the Southern Region
Table 4   Exports of Frozen Pork



TABLE OF CONTENTS - ANNEXES (Continued)
Appendix 4-3   Poultry Processing
Table 1   Poultry in the Prolect Area (1973)
5.   Grain Processing
Appendix 5-1   Soybean Processing
Table 1   Soybean Production, 1967-1974
Table 2   Estimated Soybean Production, Consumption and
Exportable Surpluses in the Project Area (1975-85)
Table 3   Exports of Soybeans
Table 4   Oilseed Processing - Soybean Products
Table 5   Oilseed Processirtg - Peanut Products
Table 6   Oilseed Processing - Oilseed Meal - Overseas Prices
Table 7   Oilseed Meal - Cottonseed Products
Table 8   Projected Exports of Soybeans and Meal
Table 9   Producer Prices for Soybeans in Sao Paulo
Table 10  Producer Prices for Peanuts in Sao Paulo
Table 11  Model -- Soybean Processing Plant,
Capacity: 600 tons/day, Production for
Export Market
Appendix 5-2   Feed Processing
Table 1   Corn Production in the Project Area
Table 2   Inspected Production of Slaughter
By-product Meals
Table 3   Fish Meal Production in the Project Area
Table 4   Main Producers of Animal Feed in the
State of Sao Paulo
Table 5   Prices of Raw Materials
Table 6   Prices for Final ?roducts
6.   Milk Processing
Table 1   Cattle Herd, Milked Cows and Amount and Value of
Milk Production in the Project Area
Table 2   Milk Products Imports
Table 3   Imports of Pcwdered Milk by Countries of
Origin (1970-74Y,
Table 4   Milk Prices (May 1975)
Table 5   Model A - Cheese and Butter Plant,
Capacity: 50,000 liters/day, Production for
Domestic Market
Table 6   Model B - Powdered Milk and Butter Plant,
Capacity: 150,000 liters/day, Production for
Domestic Market



TABLE OF CONTENTS - ANNEXES (Continued)
7.   Miscellaneous Processing
Appendix 7-1   Fruit and Vegetable Processing
Table 1   Profile of Selected Fruit Suitable
for Processing
Table 2   Citrus Profile (1969-1075)
Table 3   Profile of Selected Vegetables Suitable for
Processing (1973)
Table 4   Projected Orange Juice Production in
the State of Sao Paulo (1975-1985)
Table i   Exports cf Orange Juice
Table A   Proiectee Orange Juice Exports (1975-1985)
Table 7   Exports of Pineapple, Grape and Maracuja Juice
Table 8   Exports of Fresh Oranges
Appendix 7-2   Egg Processing
Table 1   Egg Production and Production Value
in the Project Area
Table 2   Monthly Layer and Broiler Population
in the State of Sao Paulo
Appendix 7-3   Hides, Skins and Wool Processing
Table 1   Inspected Cowhide and Pigskin Production
in the Project Area (1973)
Table 2   Cowhide Production in the Project Area (1973)
Table 3   Inspected Monato, Sheep and Goat Skins
Production in the Project Area (1973)
Table 4   Consumption of Hides (1966-72)
Table 5   Wool Production in the Project Area (1973)
Table 6   Model:  Tannery, Capacity:  1,000 hides/day,
Production for Export and Domestic Markets
S.   Project Cost Phasing
9.   Project Cash Flow at Central Bank
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan



TABLE OF CONTENTS - ANNEXES  (Continued)
11.   Economic Justification
Table 1   Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Rates
of Return
Table 2   Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rates
of Return
Appendix 11-1 Specific Assumptions for Economic Rates
of Return Calculations
Table 1   Economic Rates of Return
MAP
IBRD 11764 - Location of Subprojects Financed under Agro-industries
Credit Project I



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This report appraises a project to modernize and expand agro-
industries in the eight central and southern states of Brazil in order to
nelp meet rapidly growing domestic and export market demands for processed
food and feed products. Brazil seeks to expand and diversify exports to
alleviate balance of payment problems and to stimulate general economic growth.
The proposed project would be an extension of thie First Agro-industries Credit
Project (Loan 924-BR of 1973 for US$54 million) and would pursue similar
objectives. The project would support the Government's ongoing export corri-
dors program, which aims at increasing exports, especially exports of agricul-
tural products, through the development of five transportation corridors. Tile
Grain Storage Project (Loan 857-BR of 1972 for US$30 million) and two loans
for livestock development (Loan 516-BR of 1967 for US$40 million and Loan
868-BR of 1972 for US$26 million) and an agricultural research project (for
US$40 million) are complementary to this program. The Bank is also financing
more socially oriented projects, including the recently approved nutrition re-
search and development project (for US$19 million), located mainly in the
northeastern states.
ii.       The Brazilian economy has continued to expand rapidly in recent
years, averaging 10.6% per year over the period 1971-74, although agriculture
at 5.4% grew more slowly than industry at 12.4% per year. Agricultural ex-
ports during the same period grew in constant (1973) values from US$3,214
million in 1971/72 to US$3,796 million in 1973 and US$3,456 million in 1974,
the latter year showing a decrease in the export of traditional products such
as coffee, sugar and cotton, as well as a severe contraction of the beef export
market. Other exports, particularly non-traditional products such as soybean,
grain and livestock products, climbed from 11% of total agricultural exports
in 1962 to 43% in 1973. The food and feed processing sectors nave not, however,
kept pace with the growth of agricultural output.  The proposed project would
therefore nelp increase the country's processing capacity for some of these
non-traditional export products and help reduce import requirements for certain
other products.
iii.      Over a three-year period, the project would assist in financing in-
vestments in meat processing (estimated at US$120 million), grain processing
and nandling (US$50 million), and milk processing (US$25 million). Assistance
would also be granted to firms processing miscellaneous commodities (US$65
willion). Total project cost is estimilated at US$260 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would ue about US$83 million (32%). Sub-borrowers
would finalnce about 20% of total costs, tnie Government, 41/O; participating
banks, about 7%, and the bank, 32A, or US$S3 million (equal to the foreign
exciiange component).



iv.       hioe Jank loan would Se nmade to tne Government, Wiiici would pass on
tLe proceeds, tOgetLaer witLi its own contribution, to tile Clentral 3ank for
caanneiing to t1he participating banks, wno, in turn, would on-lend the funds to
qualified sub-borrowers for periods of 10 years, including grace periods
of up to three years, at interest rates ranging between 3% and 5%, plus full
iiidexing, according to thle region. Subloans would be made to existing enter-
prises to finance their expansion and/or rehabilitation, or to enable them to
adopt new technologies or meet new sanitary standards.  Subloans would also
be made to initiate entirely new ventures.
v.        As with tne first agro-industries credit project, the Central Bank
would be responsible for overall execution of the project and would continue
to .iaintain a Project Team to administer the project and review and super-
vise tine work of the participating banks. The participating banks would
appraise subprojects according to criteria set forth in subsidiary loan
agreements to be signed with the Central Bank and would submit their appraisals
to the Central Bank for review. The Central Bank would establish subloan
approval limits for the participating banks as deemed appropriate. Prior
bank approval would be required for subloans with a value above US$5 million
as well as for each subloan submitt:ed from a new participating bank and each
subloan with a value above US$3 million falling under tlhe non-food and feed
processing miscellaneous category. In general, the participating banks are
considered to have competent management and staff who are capable of appraising
subprojects and supervising tne sub-borrowers in the implementation of their
plans.
vi..      Procurement would be undertaken according to the requirements of
tne particular enterprises involved, as decided by the owners of the enter-
prises and the participating banks. At least three quotations would be ob-
tained by sub-borrowers from contractors or manufacturers and these would be
submicted to the participating banks for review. Brazilian firms produce the
wide range of equipment needed and aave sufficient capacity to supply the
goods and services required. Their costs are generally comparable to inter-
national firms and they have demonstrated an ability to compete successfully
for international contracts. Most major foreign firms are represented in
".'razil through affiliates or sales agents.
vii.      Financial rates of return, ranging from 13% to 35%, would provide
incentives adequate to induce investors to participate in the project.
Indicative economic rates of return for individual subprojects would range
from 37% to 55% for beef processing,; 45% for oilseed processing; 54% for milk
processing, and 24% to 47% for miscellaneous processing.  The project would
also generate approximately 7,000 permanent jobs, plus about 4,000 jobs during
tne construction phase.
viii.     with the assurances listed in Cnapter VIII, the project is suitable
for a dank loan of US$83 million for a term of 15 years, including a grace
period of four years. The Government of Brazil would be the borrower and
would assume thie foreign exchange risk.



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-I'NDUST'RI`S CREDIT PROJECI
I. INTRODUCTI1N
1.01      Thle Government of i.razil nas requested a Bank loan of US$83 million
to nelp finance a second credit project to expand and modernize agro-indus-
tries in the eight central and southern states of the country.  The borrower
would be the Federative Republic of Brazil. The direct beneficiaries would
be about 120 agro-industrial enterprises, while the indirect beneficiaries
would be a jreat many iadividual farmers and a substantial section of the
consuaing public.  The proposed loan would De a continuation of the first
loan (924-BR of 1973 for US$54 million), but it would emphasize development
of the entire agro-industrial sector rather than focus mainly on the moderni-
zation and expansion of export-oriented industries. both projects would
support brazil's ongoing export corridors program, which seeks to increase
exports, especially of agricultural products, through the development of five
transportation corridors - four in the central and southern states and one
in the northeast. The Grain Storage Project (Loan 857-BR of 1972 for US$30
million) and two loans for livestock development (Loan 516-BR of 1967 for
US$40 million and Loan 868-BR of 1972 for US$26 million) have also contributed
to the program. Concurrently with these and an agricultural research project
(for US$40 million), the Bank has also initiated more socially oriented
projects. The first of these is a settlement project in Maranao (Loan 853-BR
of 1972 for US$6.7 million); the second an emergency development project at the
mouth of the Sao Francisco River (Loan 1153-BR of 1975 for US$23 million); the
third a rural development project in Rio Grande do Norte (Report No. 921-BR
of 1975 for US$12 million); and more recently, a nutrition research and devel-
opment project (for US$19 million). Those projects are entirely or partly
located in the northeast. A number of other larger and more ambitious projects
of a similar nature are in preparation.
1.02      The proposed second agro-industries project was prepared in 1974
oy the Central Bank with the assistance of Bank staff engaged in the imple-
mentation and supervision of the first project.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      The Brazilian economy has continued to grow at a considerable pace
despite world recessionary problems and the impact of the recent oil crisis.
During the period 1971-74, GDP has shown an annual growth rate of 10.6%;
industry, 12.4%; agriculture, 5.4%. In 1974 alone, GDP increased by 9.6%;
industry by 8.2%; agriculture by 8.5%, and services by 10.8% (Annex 1, Table 1).
The 4.2% growth rate of 1975 was the result of continuing balance of payment



2-
problems and severe frost in the States of Sao Paulo and Parana. In the same
year, industry grew at 4.2% and agriculture at 3.4%. Projected average growth
of GDP for the 1977-80 period is 8%, with 7.8% for industry and 7.5% for agri-
culture, again impressive figures by most standards. 1/
2.02      Thp increase in the average per capita income (in real terms) in
the 1971-74 period has also been remarkable, rising from US$640 in 1971 to
US$810 in 1974, desDite the population zrnwing at an annual rate of 2.8% to
reach a current total of about 105 million (Annex 1, Table 2). Per canita
income in 1975 was tlS$820, with the projection for 1980 reaching US$1,000 in
1973.
2.03       The impressive performance of the agricultural sector has been as
a result of an abundance of land and a thriving private sector, combined
with a generous allocation of public resources to bring new land into produc-
tion, the availability of credit, substantial investments in agro-industrial
and marketing infrastructure, increased productivity, the subsidizing of
agricultural inputs, and the intensification and improvement of support
services. As a result of these policies, agricultural production has in-
creased substantially, agro-industry has become more diversified, and exports
of agricultural products have risen dramatically. This is best exemplified
by the following figures:
Total Production            Exports
1965         1975    1965           1975
=--'000 tons'---    -  US$ million --
Traditional Products
Sugar                            4,660       9,139       54         1,100
Coffee                           4,588       1,272      707            864
Non-traditional Products
Beef (fresh)                     1,497       2,220        24 /1          8 /1
Beef (processed)                    -             -       12            70
Soybeans                           523       9,882         7           685
Soybean meal                        -             -        7           465
Corn                            12,111      16,754       28            151
Oranges                          2,285      31,666      n.a.           n.a.
Orange Juice                     n.a.        n.a.          3            82
/1   Frozen.
2.04       Growth of the food and feed processing sector has not kept pace
with the growth in output and exports of non-traditional products. The pro-
posed project would therefore help increase processing capacity for some
of the key items on the non-traditional export list, especially soybeans, for
1/   Source:   Bank estimate.



- 3 -
which both export and domestic demand is expected to grow rapidly. It would
also help to reduce the import of milk products.
B. Agriculture in the Project Area
2.05      The eight states of the center-south comprise one of the most pro-
ductive areas of Brazil, with great potential for further expansion. Recent
(1974) estimates by the Instituto de Economia Agricola (IEA) value total
agricultural production in the project area at around US$7.5 billion, with
the southeastern region contributing 48.4%; the southern region, 44%; and
the central-west region, 7.6% of gross agricultural income. The area already
produces about 80% of Brazil's beef, all of its soya, about 80% of its milk,
and 85% of its fruit juices. Beef production occurs throughout the region,
with the greatest concentration in Rio Grande do Sul, the southernmost state
of Brazil. Soya production is concentrated in the southern half of the
region, milk production is centered in its northern part, and fruit juice
production is mainly in Sao Paulo. Corn, rice and cotton are also widely
grown. Annex 1, Table 3 gives data on area planted, production, yields, and
values for the main crops grown in the project area. The recent frost,
affecting especially the coffee plantations in the States of Sao Paulo and
Parana, has emphasized the need for further diversification of production
and processing to avoid excessive dependency on a single crop.
C. Government Agricultural and Industrial Credit Policies
Agricultural Credit
2.06      Since 1965, the Government has made a continuous effort to increase
the amount of funds for agricultural credit. In general, agricultural loans
under Government schemes are made at lower interest rates than loans to other
sectors. In the project area, interest rates range from 9% to 15% without
monetary correction. Most areas north of the 16th parallel benefit from
even more favorable interest rates as a result of the Government's effort
to offset their remoteness and relative lack of development.  Several special
funds (such as FUNDEPE, FUNDAG and PROTERRA) have been created to finance
agricultural investments and the purchase of agricultural inputs.  In addi-
tion, the Government has instituted a number of economic incentives to
stimulate agricultural production, such as:  minimum prices for particular
crops, exemption of agricultural inputs from the value added tax, almost
total exemption of rural producers from income tax, and income tax credits to
corporations investing in agricultural and livestock enterprises. Because of
these policies and the size of the country, Brazil now has one of the largest
agricultural credit systems in the world. For example the loans to agricul-
ture outstanding by the end of 1974 totalled Cr$ 56 billion (US$7.6 billion),
involving an average loan size of Cr$ 33,000 (US$4,400). The total value of
loans amounted to 56% of the value of gross production, as compared with 37%
in 1971. The Banco do Brasil, which financed 56% of all agricultural credit
in 1974, is the leading agricultural lending agency.



-4-
Industrial Credit
2.07       The Government's overall ?olicy in the industrial sector is to
stimulate development, based on modern technology, that will compete inter-
nationally, will help to alleviate balance of payments constraints to
economic growth, and will increase employment opportunities. Within this
framework, the Government industria:L credit policies are designed to support
those industries that (a) expand the production and export of agricultural
products, (b) operate within sectors of specified high priority such as
the capital goods industry, (c) cont:ribute to regional balance of indus-
trial activity, and (d) substitute domestic production for manufactured
imports where economically justifiecl. Institutional credit to industry as
a whole amounted to Cr$ 23 billion by the end of 1974 (12% of production value).
Ofl-icial long- and medium-term lending operations are administered largely by
the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE) through the state and
regional development banks. In 1974, the average loan amounted to about
Cr$ 1 million, while the share of long- and medium-term loans provided by
BNDE was Cr$ 12.5 billion (52%). In the project area, typical interest rates
to sub-borrowers are between 3% and 9% with full monetary correction, through
a system under which principal and interest payments are adjusted to reflect
changes in the price level, thus assuring interest rates that are positive in
real terms. Private investment banks presently play a minor role, although
they serve as lending channels for industrial loans for BNDE and Caixa
Economica Federal (CEF). Despite the significant expansion in total credit
for the sector, long-term financing, particularly for medium and small firms,
is quite limited. In an effort to imnprove matters, the Government is making
substantial funds available to BNDE to increase the availability of industrial
cre,dit. Despite this, demand still exceeds supply, particularly for agro-
industries. The latter have reasonable access to short-term credit from the
commercial banking system but long-term credit is particularly limited. 1/
2.08      Providing funds to the Cent:ral Bank to stimulate agro-industries,
which was the purpose of the first project and is still the objective of
the second project, has increased the flow of funds and should increase the
number of credit outlets. 2/ A further constraint to expanding long-term
lencling activities in the agro-industrial sector is the scarcity of trained
personnel, since most banks experience difficulties in retaining and expanding
their trained technical staff. This problem too would be addressed in the
proposed project, at least insofar as the Central Bank is concerned.
D. The Banking System
Banco do Brasil
2.09       Banco do Brasil (BB), the country 's largest commercial bank, with
assets at the end of 1974 of Cr$ 131 billion (US$17.6 billion), is expanding
1/   No meaningful figures exist for agro-industries alone.
2/   Central Bank agreed with BNDE that from 1975 all agro-industrial investment
lending involving Bank funds wou;Ld be handled by the Central Bank.



- 5 -
its operations in agro-industry as a complement to its primary emphasis on
agriculture. Until 1964, BB performed the functions of a central bank and
today still acts as financial agent for the Federal Treasury and other Govern-
ment agencies. Its primary objective is to promote and advance national
production. BB's main sources of funds are deposits (short-term, sight,
and demand) from the public, from banks, from the financial institutions,
from the Treasury, and from the Central Bank. At the end of 1974, RB's loans
outstanding to the private sector for food processing (mainly sugar manufac-
ture) totalled Cr$ 2.8 billion (US$0.4 billion). Interest rates, monetary
correction, other charges, loan and grace periods, and security requirements
vary according to the size and the purpose of the loan and the source of
funds. In 1974, the weighted annual average yield (interest and other
charges) on all loans was 13.4%.. (For details see Annex 2.) At the end of
September 1974, BB had 878 branches distributed throughout Brazil, of which
about 600 were in the nine states comprising the project area.
State Development Banks
2.10      The state development banks seek to promote economic development by
providing long-term credit to enterprises in priority sectors. Although they
are small in comparison to BB, the assets of those participating in the pro-
ject at the end of 1974 ranged from Cr$ 340 million (US$43 million) to
Cr$ 2,109 million (USS266 million). They have been an important source of
long-term financing for industry (Annex 2), especially agro-industry. The
state development banks are comparatively new institutions, all of them
having been established within the last 15 years. Some have emerged as
successors to state development corporations. BDMG, BANDES, BADESP, and
BADEP 1/ are wholly or nearly wholly owned enterprises of the respective
Governments of the States of Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Sao Paulo, and
Parana, while BRDE 2/ is jointly owned by the Governments of Rio Grande do
Sul, Santa Catarina, and Parana. Each is governed by a specific law enacted
by the state legislature, but all are subject to the overall control of
the Central Bank. Under the terms of Monetary Council Resolution No. 93 of
1968, the state development banks are not permitted to operate branch offices,
which limits their activities. Legally, they are limited companies, subject
to the payment of Federal and State income tax. BRDE is an "autarquia," a
semi-Government institution covered by a special law. It is exempt from
income tax but is not allowed to accept deposits from the public.
2.11      Nearly all the share capital of the state development banks is
provided by the states. The ratio of capital and reserves to total loans
and investments (1 to 5 for loans in national currency and 1 to 15 for loans
in foreign currencies) is under constant supervision by the Central Bank.
1/   Banco do Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais, Banco do Desenvolvimento de
Espirito Santo, Banco do Desenvolvimento do Sao Paulo, and Banco do
Desenvolvimento do Parana.
2/   Banco Regional do Extremo Sul.



- 6 
Loan arrears have been at a reasonable level, amounting to not more than 1%
of portfolio.  In recent years, and especial,  in 1974, profits of the banks
have been insufficient to compensate for the effects of inflation on capital
and reserves. This capital erosion haas beeu vaused mainly by loans having
been made without monetary correction (the spread and leverage failing to
compensate for inflation); a reduction in spreads in some credit lines from
BNDE and from the states, in effect requiring the participating banks to
contribute "to the maintenance of the momentum in the economic development";
and, in the case of certain banks, high administrative costs resulting from
relatively small loans. The Federal Government has agreed, within the con-
text of the recent development banking project (Report No. 932a-BR), to
undertake a study of the equity erosion problems of development banks and
take the necessary measures to recapitalize them.
Private Investment Banks
2.12      Most private investment banks are part of major commercial banks
and operate through their national branch networks. They obtain resources
mainly through savings certificates and debentures and also serve as channels
for public investment financing institutions and banks such as BNDE, the
National Housing Bank (BNH), and the Social Security Program (PIS). They also
serve as channels for external lenders. As regards capital and resources,
they are about as large as or larger than the major state development banks.
Several investment banks have their own technical staff of engineers, agrono-
mists, economists, and other specialists, while others keep consulting firms
on a retainer basis.
E. The Structure of Agro-industries
2.13      Agro-industries in the project area can be divided into four major
groups -- large international and national companies, medium-sized national
companies, farmer cooperatives, and small cottage-type industries. The
complexity of food processing operations tends to favor the large companies
because they can afford the modern management techniques that are required,
and they can also vertically integrate their operations, as in the case of
the pork industry. The large companies are sophisticated, comparing favorably
with similar industries in developed countries. Medium-sized companies are
normally limited in their expansion capability by lack of capital and techni-
cal expertise. They operate on a local basis, providing less sophisticated
products for local consumption as, for example, the poultry slaughterhouses.
The cooperatives are starting to process the products of their members
and may gain in importance because of their control over raw material supplies
such as fresh beef. As these groups are primarily agricultural, they lack
industrial experience and managerial expertise, which is difficult to acquire
in Brazil because of the growing demand derived from rapid growth in all
sectors of business. At present the cooperatives limit their activities
mainly to manufacturing semi-processed items or products that can be sold
through existing distribution outlets. In a few cases, a number of producer



-7-
cooperatives have joined forces and formed marketing cooperatives. Small
and cottage-type industries, particularly in the milk processing and miscel-
laneous processing categories, have trouble competing with the more advanced
companies or cooperatives, especially in operations such as cheese and butter
processing and fruit preserves and juices, which require large volumes and
mechanized handling to be significantly profitable. The success of these
smaller industries depends on the ability of the manager/owner and is usually
limited by a lack of capital necessary to expand their operations.
F. Government Policies for Agricultural Production and Food Processing
Agricultural Production
2.14      The Government attaches the utmost importance to the expansion of
agricultural production in order to sustain high levels of economic growth.
In addition, agricultural growth is seen as a key potential generator of
foreign exchange and, by meeting a growing domestic demand, a means of active
price stabilization. To support the growth objectives for agriculture, the
Government has allocated substantial public resources to agricultural programs.
Federal Government policies to increase agricultural production have been
backed up by credit programs geared to eliminate or reduce some of the factors
inhibiting agricultural development. Credit lines with subsidized inter-
est rates have been established for storage facilities, an extensive program
has been initiated for pasture improvement, and a Federal scheme to reimburse
farmers for a large portion of any losses in agricultural ventures has been
formulated. Geographic areas of special interest to the Federal Government
have received further attention through specific regional programs that in-
clude subsidized credit, such as POLONORDESTE, POLOAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO.
All of these are geared to assist agriculture under conditions of drought,
tropical rain-forest and "cerrado" acid soils. However, the project area
is for the most part not included in the first two programs but is in the
third. Other smaller agricultural development programs deal with specific
sectorial problems, such as the Programa de Desenvolvimento da Agroindustria
do Nordeste, or are derived from geo-political situations such as that created
by fusion of the States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara, resulting in the
Programa Especial do Norte Fluminense.
2.15      Federal policies are complemented by individual state policies which
place special emphasis on specific geographic areas or agricultural subsectors
within a state. Thus, Rio Grande do Sul gives special attention to the concen-
tration of livestock activities in order to free agricultural areas for crop
production, particularly the expansion of soybeans. Within the project areas,
Santa Catarina is concerned with increasing agricultural productivity of its
traditional crops, particularly potatoes, peanuts and rice, in order to make
the most rational use of scarce arable land. Parana is giving attention to
soil conservation problems, particularly in its northwest area. Sao Paulo is
concerned with increased crop productivity in the already cultivated portions



of the state and in expanding agriculture towards the west in order to achieve
a more even geographic distribution. Rio de Janeiro is encouraging crop and
dairy production to substitute imports from other states, while Espirito Santo
and Minas Gerais are trying to attrazt outside investors to develop agriculture
and industry. The State of Mato Grosso, with vast unused agricultural resources,
is concerned mainly with improving infrastructure such as roads and rural
electrification. Most of the priority programs are supported not only by
technical assistance from the different state governments, but also by a
number of special subsidized credit lines.
Food Processing
2.16      Traditionally the Government's main effort has been to increase the
production and export of raw materials (paras 2.14 and 2.15), but more recently,
there has been increasing interest in the export of processed products such
as soybeans and beef. In response to this, the Government has initiated
special policy measures, including the strengthening of the Departmento do
Inspecao de Produtos de Origem Animal (DIPOA), an agency of the Ministry of
Agriculture, which is responsible for establishing and enforcing regulations
applicable throughout the country for the inspection and control of all pro-
cessed products of animal origin. This inspection and control is carried out
through three subdivisions of DIPOA, one responsible for all meat products
(DICAR), a second for all milk products (DILEI), and a third for all fish
products (DIPES). These subdivisions of DIPOA establish the regulations and
quality standards for their respective areas of responsibility, approve all
plans or modifications of processing plants before they are licensed, and
control each manufacturer to insure that the regulations and standards are
complied with. So far, DIPOA has focussed its attention on beef, which has
resulted in a thorough restructuring and upgrading of the beef processing
industry. Recently, it shifted emphasis to milk, and there is reason to
expect similar improvements in that industry.
G. Support Services
2.17      Agricultural research is largely, but by no means exclusively, a
Federal responsibility, and the recently created Empresa Brasileira de
Pesquisa AgroDecuaria (EMBRAPA) has been established to direct a wide range
of research activities. EMBRAPA has recently received Bank assistance under
the recently approved agricultural research loan. Agricultural extension
activities are more decentralized than agricultural research and are
conducted by individual state agencies (ANCARS). The activities of indi-
vidual ANCARS are, however, now being nationally coordinated by the newly
created Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Technica e Extensao Rural (EMBRATER).
The creation of both national institutions, EMBRAPA and EMBRATER, are
expected to result in more effective and better coordinated services to
farmers. A third support institution is the Centro Brasileiro de Assistencia
Gerencial e Pequena e Media Empresa (CEBRAE) which is financed by BNDE and



-9-
the state development banks. CEBRAE operates through individual state
agencies to supply technical assistance and training of management to small-
and medium-sized industries. The program has achieved variable success in
different states. In 1975, the Federal Government provided Cr$ 50 million
(US$6.1 million) to assist CEBRAE, increasing to Cr$ 60 million (US$7.3 million)
in 1976 and Cr$ 65 million (US$16 million) in 1977. These funds are suffi-
cient for CEBRAE's current operations, but in view of the magnitude of the
managerial problem in small- and medium-sized industries, particularly in
relatively less developed states such as Santa Catarina, Espirito Santo,
Mato Grosso and Minas Gerais, CEBRAE may need ad7ditional support.
III.   PERFORMANCE UNDER THE FIRST AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The first agro-industries project (Loan 924-BR) was appraised in
November/December 1972, approved by the Executive Directors in June 1973, and be-
came effective in March 1974. The primary objective is to help modernize and ex-
pand agro-industries in the central and southern states of Brazil, the main thrust
being to stimulate production and increase the export of meat products through
an expansion in processing facilities. BUriH aLppr.isal, tatal project-cost
was estimated at US$135 million (US$108 million allocated to beef processing,
US$8 million to oilseed processing, US$10 million to milk processing, and
US$9 million to miscellaneous export-oriented food and feed processing facili-
ties) 1/. The Bank provided the Government with a loan of US$54 million,
which, with the Government's counterpart contribution of US$54 million, is
channeled to qualifying agro-industries through six participating state
development banks. Sub-borrowers collectively contribute an additional
US$27 million. Funds are on-lent for period of up to 10 years, including a
two-year grace period, at an interest rate of 5% plus full ORTN 2/ indexing.
3.02      As required by the Loan Agreement, the Central Bank, which is
primarily responsible for project execution, established a Project Team to
administer day-to-day operations and review the work of the participating
banks. The Project Team is required to appraise subprojects according to
criteria set forth in subsidiary loan agreements between the participating
banks and the Central Bank.
1/   In 1975 funds were reallocated.  Beef processing was decreased to
US$50 million, while the miscellaneous category was increased to
US$33 million and oilseed processing to US$17 million.
2/   National Treasury Bonds.



- 10 -
B. Lend ing Operat ions
3.03      Before the loan became effective, the Central Bank prepared a
project manual detailing the procedures to be applied in the evaluation,
appraisal, and supervision of subprojects. Subsequently, the participating
banks found that in many cases the procedures were too cumbersome, resulting
in delays in subproject approval. With the approval of the Bank, the pro-
cedures have been revised to prevent unnecessary bottlenecks in subproject
review.
3.04      The Loan Agreement originally required prior Bank approval of sub-
loans exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent (Bank participation of US$0.75 mil-
lion), or, which together with one or more earlier subloans exceeded US$2
million equivalent (Bank participation of US$1 million) in aggregate lending
to any single beneficiary. Also, prior Bank approval was required for the
first two subloans proposed in respect of meat, oil and milk processing, and
the first subloan in respect of any eligible sub-category under the miscellaneous
category. In addition, prior Bank approval was required for the first loan to
be made by any new participating bank. Subloans with a value of US$1 million
equivalent, or US$1.5 million equivalent in aggregate lending to a single
borrower, were subject to prior approval by the Central Bank, whereas subloans
with a value under US$1 million equivalent could be approved directly by the
participating banks. In July 1975, based upon satisfactory performance by
the Central Bank and the participating banks, the Bank deleted the requirement
that it approve each subloan in a new sector under the miscellaneous category.
In October 1975, the Bank agreed to further changes in the approval procedures
for sub-borrowers in the project.  The size limit above which prior Bank
approval of subloans was required was increased from US$1.5 million to US$4
million (Bank participation of US$2 million). Correspondingly, the Central
Bank established different approval limits for the various participating
banks, namely, US$2 million for Banco do Desenvolvimento do Estado do Sao
Paulo S.A. (BADESP), Banco de Desenvolvimento do Parana S.A. (BADEP), Banco
Regional do Extremo Sul (BRDE), and Banco do Desenvolvimento do Minas Gerais
(BDMG), and US$1 million for the remaining participating banks. In October
1975, the Bank also agreed to a reduction from 5%, plus full monthly correction,
to 3%, plus full monetary correction, in the interest rates on subloans in the
States of Goias, Mato Grosso, Espirito Santo and Santa Catarina in order to
stimulate further agro-industry activities in those less developed states.
In addition, the Bank agreed to include permanent working capital in the
investment costs of subprojects eligible for Bank financing and to the
elimination of the requirement that participating banks charge a 1% subproject
appraisal fee.
3.05      In general, these changes have contributed to other efforts being
made by the Central Bank and the participating banks to minimize the delays
in approval of individual subloans. Performance of the Project Team has
improved, as experience has increased the proficiency with which subloan
applications have been evaluated. In reviewing subprojects, Central Bank
has placed primary emphasis on insuring a ready supply of raw materials and



- 11 -
on the financial soundness of the sub-borrower. Aspects of the evaluation
that have sometimes been weak and require further improvement are market
analysis and management evaluation.
C. Commitment of Funds and Disbursements
3.06      Commitments under the first project have been slower than anticipa-
ted, partly because of initial delays in establishing the Project Team and in
formulating the lending procedures. As of June 18, 1976, subloans totalling
US$87 million were approved and subloans for a further US$4 million were under
review by the Central Bank and should be approved by end June 1976, together,
committing about US$45.5 million of the Bank loan. Additional subloans for a
total value of US$62 million and Bank lending of approximately US$31 million
are either under evaluation or in active preparation, most of which are likely
to qualify for Bank financing. Hence, subloans approved and those in the
pipeline would exceed resources available under the first project which is
likely to be fully committed by the end of July 1976. Details of subprojects
approved and those under preparation/consideration are listed in Annex 3,
while the map shows the actual locations of approved subprojects.
3.07      Corresponding to the rate of commitment, disbursements of the Bank
loan have been slower than anllcipated.  As of June 18, 1976, actual Bank
disbursement was US$15.9 million, representing about half of the appraisal
projection.
D. Impact of the Loan
3.08      So far, only a few of the approved subprojects have actually started
operations and not enough time has elapsed to permit meaningful evaluation.
However, it is apparent that the project is not likely to be as heavily oriented
to beef processing as was originally envisaged. Due to import restrictions,
especially in Europe, Brazilian beef exports dropped significantly during 1974.
As a result, It is unlikely that Brazil will become a major exporter of beef
in the next few years as was anticipated at appraisal. However, the project
has contributed to a significant increase in beef production, which, by
meeting rising domestic demand, has helped the Government to stabilize local
prices. It is difficult to predict whether export markets will expand in
the future, but in view of increasing world demand for animal products in
general and beef in particular, and, in view of Brazil's potential for live-
stock production, it is likely that exports will expand again as current
European surpluses disappear.
3.09      As a result of the loan, the Central Bank has already become a pri-
mary source of funds for agro-industries and the Project Team is now coordi-
nating major investments in the agro-industrial sector initiated by the



- 12 -
Ministries of Agriculture and Finance and the Secretariat of Planning. The
Bank has assisted the Project Team with technical advice, and the Bank's
participation in the review of subprojects has increased the quality of
the appraisal work, both by the state development banks and the Central Bank.
Furthermore, through Bank support, the Central Bank has been able to initiate
improvements in the participating banks' handling of bidding procedures, dis-
bursement and supervision of loans. The loan has also helped to insure that
sufficient resources are available for expanding the country's agro-industries
potential, including the successful modernization and expansion of the slaugh-
terhouse sector.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The project would be a continuation of the First Agro-industries
Project (Loan 924-BR), which has financed the expansion of agro-industries
in the nine central and southern states of Brazil and was primarily designed
to stimulate the growth of exports and reduce imports of processed agricul-
tural products. Over a period of three years, it would help finance facili-
ties for meat processing (46% of total investment), grain handling (19%),
milk processing (10%), and various agro-industries, including some engaged
in supplying basic agricultural inputs (25%). The relative size of the project
components has been determined largely by an analysis of subprojects financed
or under consideration for financing under the first project. It is evident
from such analysis that there is still substantial demand for increased and
improved meat processing facilities despite a reduction in national beef
exports. Thus, the project would (a) aim at satisfying the rapidly increasing
domestic market for all meat products (beef, pork and poultry), (b) assist a
considerable number of existing food and feed processing facilities to meet
more stringent veterinary and sanitary standards, and (c) support a growing
requirement for additional facilities brought about by the pressures of
increased agricultural production. Although meat processing remains the
single biggest component of the project, its relative importance is less
than in the first project. The 110 to 130 industries expected to be financed
under the project are anticipated to range in size from medium to large and
would be owned mostly by private enterpreneurs or cooperatives. The project
would also include financing for the training of Central Bank technicians.
As was the case in the first loan, the proposed Bank loan would be channeled
through the Central Bank to the participating banks, which would have pri-
mary responsibility for appraisal of all subloans. The Project Team in the
Central Bank would be responsible for overall coordination and implementation
of the project.



- 13 -
4.02      The number and size of subloans would vary considerably according
to the types of investment involved. The expected phasing of subloans is
indicated below:
Average
Projected Number of Subloans               Loan Amount
Committed Per Year                    US$ Equivalent
ProcessingIndustr    1            2         3            Total      Million
Meat              21        21        15             57          2.1
Grain              8         8         9             25          1.2
Milk               6         8         6             20          2.0
Miscellaneous      5         5         6             16          4.2
B. Detailed Features
Meat Processing
4.03      The project would provide for investment in some 57 meat processing
and packing plants. Facilities for handling cattle, pigs and poultry would
all be included. Essentially, investment would entail the construction of
new plants, including cold storage and, in some cases, distribution outlets
and refrigerated transport. The capacity of the plants and slaughterhouses
handling cattle would range from 200 to 600 head per day. Meat processors
have the necessary managerial experience and technical capability to success-
fully operate the facilities. Details are given in Annex 4.
Grain Processin&
4.04      The project would include financing for one or two soybean proces-
sing plants using solvent extraction. Investments would be used to expand
existing facilities, converting them into efficient working units. The
capacity of these facilities after project implementation would be about 300
to 600 tons/day, a size range which would allow them to compete internationally.
Approximately 20 small and two large feed processing facilities are also
expected to be financed. Plant facilities would range from 6.5 tons to 25
tons per hour. The feedmills would be technically simple, consisting mainly
of storage, mixing and bagging facilities. Some of the feedmills would be
operated by cooperatives which already operate slaughterhouses. Details are
provided in Annex 5.
Milk Proce ssing
4.05      Some 20 milk processing facilities are expected to be financed, of
which the majority would be located in Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais. The sub-
projects would produce mainly powdered milk, butter and pasteurized milk for



- 14 -
local consumption. The location of these subprojects would be in milk produc-
ing regions which have access to the large consumer centers, such as the
western part of Sao Paulo and the northern and eastern parts of Minas Gerais.
Other subprojects would be small units processing milk into cheese and butter.
It is not expected that any subprojects located close to the urban centers of
Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro would be financed since both the cooperatives
and the private sector have already established a number of large processing
units in these areas which are not yet fully utilized. Details are provided
in Annex 6.
Miscellaneous
4.06      Subprojects under this category would cover a wide range of indus-
tries that process agricultural produce such as egg packing, fruit and vege-
table canning, and tanneries. Also included would be industries that produce
certain basic inputs for agriculture such as small specialized farm equip-
ment, i.e., sprayers and hand tools, and installations for mixing and handling
of fertilizers. These industries are crucial to the expansion of agricultural
development and the Central Bank has requested their financing in order to
insure that sufficient funds are available to prevent bottlenecks affecting
other activities. In general, the industries to be financed would range
from small to medium in sive. Dptailx are given in Annex 7.
C. Cost Estimates
4.07      Total project cost excluding taxes is estimated at US$260 million
(Cr$ 2,130 million), of which US$83 million (Cr$ 681 million), or 32%, re-
presents the foreign exchange requirements. Estimated project costs are
given below and phasing is indicated in Annex 8.
Cr$ million              USS million        % Foreign
Category            Local  For   n  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
1.  Meat                  662       311    973      82     38      120       32
2.  Grain                 292       115    407      37     13       50        28
3.  Milk                  149        61    210      17      8       25        29
4.  Miscellaneous         346       194    540      41     24       65        36
Total Project Cost   1L449        681  2,130    177      83      160        32
4.08      Cost estimates are based on prevailing domestic prices of similar
facilities financed by the participating banks, on data provided by Brazilian
manufacturers, and on the findings of a study conducted by consultants on the
likely costs of agro-industrial equipment in Brazil between 1976 and 1978.
Physical contingencies are included in the cost of installation.



- 15 -
The foreign exchange component includes both the estimated direct and indirect
foreign exchange content of the investment. It is expected that Bank funds
provided under the project would be committed over a three-year period
(Annex 3).
D. Financing
4.09      The project would be financed as follows:
US$ Million          7
Sub-borrowers                       52             20
Federal Government
(Central Bank)                        106             41
Participating Banks                       19              7
Bank                                      83             32
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  260           100
4.10      The Bank loan of US$83 million would finance about 32% of total
project costs, which would be equivalent to 100% of the estimated foreign ex-
change component of fixed assets (US$230 million) and of the permanent working
capital (US$30 million). The Central Bank would contribute 41%. The balance
would be provided by sub-borrowers from their own resources, by the participating
banks, and by additional debt financing obtained from non-project funds. The
participating banks would require sub-borrowers to maintain prudent debt/equity
ratios (Schedule A). It is estimated that, on average, participating banks
would contribute about 7% of total project costs. Working capital would
normally be financed by commercial banks, but, in special cases, if no other
sources were available, permanent working capital, not exceeding 30% of the
fixed investment cost of each subproject, would be financed by the project.
4.11      The Bank loan, to be disbursed over five and a half years, would be
made to the Government, which would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
Government would make the proceeds of the loan available to the Central Bank
on the same financial terms and conditions as the Bank loan. An assurance
on this was obtained at negotiations. The Central Bank would on-lend to the
participating banks under subsidiary loan agreements incorporating the
provisions of Schedule A; their execution to the satisfaction of the Bank
would be a condition of disbursement.
4.12      Loans to sub-borrowers would have terms of 10 years, including
grace periods of up to three years. Hence, with loans commencing in three
successive years, the last repayment would be made 13 years after the start
of the project, expected to be around August 1976. The cash flow projection



- 16 -
made by the Central Bank indicates that sub-borrowers' debt service payments,
at an estimated average interest rate of 4.3% with indexing, would generate
sufficient funds to repay the Bank loan within a period of 15 years, includ-
ing four years' grace, and accepting a reasonable degree of slippage in
disbursements and payments (Annex 9).
E. Procurement
4.13      Procurement procedures would be the same as those applied under the
first loan. Equipment needed for the project would be procured by sub-
borrowers either from suppliers of their existing equipment, if required for
purposes of standardization, or from new suppliers after price comparison
among at least three suppliers (see Schedule A). Bid awards would be reviewed
by participating banks. It is expected that most of the procurement would be
local. Domestic firms produce a wide range of the equipment needed and they
have demonstrated an ability to compete internationally. Foreign firms are
widely represented by domestic affiliates that are expected to bid for project
contracts.
F. Disbursement
4.14      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 40% of subloans
disbursed by participating banks to sub-borrowers. All participating banks
would make disbursements in installments to insure that the release of each
installment would be conditional upon satisfactory implementation of each
stage and that agreed procurement procedures had been followed. Disbursement
requests to the Bank would be accompanied by statements of expenditure
certified by the Central Bank. The supporting documentation would be retained
by the participating banks for review by the Bank during supervision. The
participating banks' disbursement to sub-borrowers would take about five years,
while disbursement of the Bank loan is expected to take about five and a half
years. The estimated schedule for disbursements is given in Annex 10.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Administration
5.01      The Project Team established within the Central Bank to administer
the first project would continue to handle the proposed second project. Ori-
ginally the Central Bank contained an administrative unit entitled Gerencia
do Coordenacao do Credito Rural e Industrial (GECRI) whose function it was to



- 17 -
administer both industrial and rural credit projects, including foreign lines
of credit in support of special development programs. In January 1975, GECRI
was reorganized into two divisions: Gerencia do Credito Rural (GERUR), dealing
was the administration of rural credit, and Gerencia do Credito Industrial
e Programas Especiais (GESPE) with responsibility for industrial credit and
special programs. The Project Team was placed within GESPE and consisted of
10 financial and technical specialists (representing about one-third of GESPE's
total professional staff). Its main function was to evaluate subloan applica-
tions submitted by the participating banks and insure satisfactory execution
of subprojects.
5.02      The reorganization that has occurred is considered to be generally
satisfactory. However, with the commencement of the second project, the
Project Team would need further strengthening. First, the staff would require
greater expertise in the highly specialized field of food processing technology.
Second, it would need expertise in marketing, since the sensitivity of a
specific subproject to short- and long-term marketing projections is of the
greatest importance. This is particularly true since the Central Bank must
decide priorities among various alternatives submitted by various participating
banks. Third, the staff of the Project Team would require additional capabi-
lity to assess adequately the managerial capacity of subprojects. The Central
Bank is aware of these needs and has agreed that it should arrange for the
training of two senior members of the Project Team in the fields of food
technology and the management and financing of agro-industry programs. Im-
provements would also be made in the capability of the Project Team to assess
market prospects and to evaluate and design management systrims. The
Central Bank would continue to consult with the Bank on the qualifications
and terms of reference of key staff for the Project Team and to hire con-
sultants as required for the technical review of subprojects. Additionally,
the Central Bank would, with Bank assistance, provided through the Development
Banking Project, support the efforts of BNDE to improve the management and
technical capabilities of the participating banks. An assurance on these points
was obtained at negotiations from the Central Bank.
B. Participating Banks
5.03      The main participating banks in the first project are the Banco de
Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo (BADESP), the Banco de Desenvolvimento
do Extremo Sul (BRDE), the Banco de Desenvolvimento do Parana (BADEP), and
the Banco do Brazil (RB). Less active participants are the Banco do Desen-
volvimento do Espirito Santo (BANDES) and the Banco do Desenvolvimento do
Minas Gerais (BDMG). All six would continue to participate in the second
project. In addition, several other banks would probably participate, includ-
ing the Banco do Estado de Santa Catarina (BESC), which is a commercial bank
with a development finance department: the Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
(BDRIO); and a number of private investment banks, provided they are found
suitable by the Central Bank. Participating banks would lend to sub-borrowers
in their own particular state, while the BB and eligible private banks would
lend throughout the project area as a whole.



- 18 -
5.04      The participating state development banks are competently managed.
The biggest problem facing many of them is an erosion of their capital
(para 2.11). Under the development banking project, the Government has
agreed to recapitalize these banks. An assurance was obtained at negotia-
tions from the Central Bank that it would support such measures. BB is a
very large organization which is fully competent to participate in the project,
although its relative lack of regional decentralization and expertise in the
particular type of subloans involved could restrict its participation. Pri-
vate investment banks are deemed generally adequate but would be subject to
evaluation by the Central Bank in certain cases.
C. Project Fund and Project Account
5.05      Arrangements similar to those governing the first project would be
established for the second project. The Central Bank would establish a
separate Project Fund, which would comprise the proceeds of the Bank loan,
plus the Government's contribution. The participating banks would draw from
this Fund to cover subloan disbursements as stipulated in the subsidiary
loan agreements (Schedule A). The Central Bank would also establish a Project
Account, which would reflect the operations and financial conditions of the
Project Fund, including all sublending transactions under the project. In
addition, each participating bank would maintain a separate account for all
transactions under the project.
5.06      The participating banks would draw 91% of the value of approved
subloans from the Project Fund at interest rates ranging between 1/2% and
2-1/2%, with full indexing based on ORTN prices, and would lend to sub-
borrowers at interest rates of 3% to 5%, also with full indexing based on
ORTN prices.
D. Lendin Policies and Procedures
Subloan Appraisal_and Supervision
5.07      Potential sub-borrowers would prepare, or commission qualified con-
sultants to prepare, detailed feasibility studies covering the technical,
organizational, financial, and commercial aspects of subprojects to determine
the soundness of the investments and the creditworthiness of the applicants
(Schedule A). All appraisals for subloans exceeding amounts to be determined
for each participating bank would be submitted to the Central Bank for review.
As required by law, meat processing facilities would be subject to approval by
DIPOA (para 2.16). The Central Bank would set subloan approval limits for the
participating banks as appropriate and would advise the Bank accordingly.
Prior Bank approval would be required for:



19 -
(a)  the first subloan presented by a new participating bank,
together with adequate documentation, the Central Bank
attesting to that bank's qualification to participate
in the project:
(b)  subloans with a value in excess of US$5 million to an indi-
vidual sub-borrower; 1/ and
(c)  subloans in excess of US$3 million in respect of non-food or
feed processing subprojects under the miscellaneous category. 2/
Assurances that these procedures anA the lending criteria outlined in
Schedule A would be followed were obtained from the Central Bank during
negotiations.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
5.08      Subloans would be limited to 80% of the total cost of fixed invest-
ment (excluding the cost of land) and permanent working capital and would
have a maturity of up to 10 years, including a maximum grace period of three
years. Interest rates would range between 3% and 5%, depending upon the
state involved, with full indexing based on ORTN prices. 3/ Since the ORTN
prices are tied to the general price index, the real rate of interest would
be about the same.
5.09      The participating banks would pay the Central Bank 1/2% to 2-1/2%
on refinancing, indexed on the ORTN, thus retaining a margin of 2-1/2%.
During the grace period, interest repayment would not be required but would
accrue with principal, the aggregate of which would be subject to indexing on
ORTN prices. After the grace period, principal and interest payments would
be made semi-annually on the basis of the adjusted balances outstanding. A
commitment fee of 1/2% per year would be charged on undisbursed subloan
balances. At the discretion of the participating banks, in consultation with
the Central Bank, an appraisal fee of up to 1% may be charged on the amount
of the investment cost of subprojects.
1/   Under these arrangements, it is expected that the Bank would have to
review from five to 10 subloans per year in order to scrutinize the
generally adequate appraisal procedures and methodology of the Central
Bank.
2!   The lower ceiling for (c) is lower than for (b) because these would be
new areas of lending.
3/   3% for Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso, Goias, Santa Catarina and the region
north of the 18th parallel in Minas Gerais; 5% for all other states.



- 20 -
E. Accounts and Auditinq
5.10      The accounting systems of the participating state development banks
are generally satisfactory and are subject to inspection by the Central Bank.
Each of the participating banks would undergo regular independent audits by
reputable firms which would be additional to, and more comprehensive than,
the inspections by the Central Bank. The Bank would require regular annual
examination by external auditors, acceptable to the Bank (Schedule A).
5.11      The Project Account (para 5.05) in the Central Bank would be audited
annually by an independent auditing unit of the Ministry of Finance. A signed
copy of the auditor's report, including a description of the audit procedures,
together with certified copies of appropriate statements on the Account, would
be forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end of the financial year.
Assurances on all these provisions were obtained from the Central Bank during
negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND OPERATING RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      The investment in meat processing facilities should result in higher
quality meat, increased production for both the domestic and foreign markets,
and better utilization of by-products. The output from the beef processing
plants should be about 300,000 tons per year, of which about 30,000 tons is
expected to be exported. Output from the pork processing units should be
about 40,000 tons per year, and from the poultry processing about 100,000 tons
per year, both items being primarily for the local market. The soybean mills
expected to be financed under the project should produce about 50,000 tons of
oil and about 200,000 tons of meal annually. Investment in feedmills should
provide milling facilities for about 600,000 tons of grain per year, which
is equivalent to about 10 of national production during 1974. The milk
processing units that would be financed under the project should produce
about 16,800 tons of powdered milk per year, 8,500 tons of butter, and 16,000
tons of cheese. Investments in the miscellaneous category are presently un-
specified so that the resulting increase in processing capacity cannot be
predicted.
B. MarketinR
6.02      Domestic demand for meat has been in a stable upward trend.  Abun-
dant supplies have been more than ample to meet local market requirements
and the Government has intervened on occasion to reduce seasonal price fluc-
tuations. Due to the need to maintain a steady expansion of beef supplies



- 21 -
to meet rising domestic demand, the export trade has become of secondary
importance to the Government. Around 7n7 of processed beef is exported.
There exists currently a small export trade for high quality pork and there
is substantial potential for increased exports because of relatively high
production costs in Europe. Localized and occasional over-production of
poultry has precipitated producer demands for Government assistance and
export promotion of this product is fast becoming a Government responsibility.
This would require significant up-grading of processing facilities to meet
export market standards. Likely export markets for processed poultry are
Europe and possibly the Middle Eastern countries. There is also likely to
be strong domestic demand since current levels of consumption (2.2 kilogram
per capita per year) are low.
6.03      Prospects are good for soya products produced by the increased
processing capacity. Demand for soya meal is expected to continue to grow
at a steady rate, and recent unfavorable developments are considered as only
temporary factors. World demand for soybean oil is not expected to be as
dynamic as that for soya meal, but the oil can be disposed of profitably on
both the domestic and export markets. The market for processed animal feed
is directly related to the expansion of beef, poultry, and pork production
and has, therefore, considerable potential. While market prospects are
promising, improved quality control will be required to maintain and expand
the domestic market and to benefit from any export potential.
6.04      Marketing problems in the dairy industry reflect mainly the cyclical
character of production, which parallels closely the seasonal beef cattle
cycle. Because of narrow margins between production costs and fixed consumer
prices, fresh milk distribution is barely profitable. Profits at present
must come from dairy products where prices are not regulated.
6.05      Local markets for orange juice concentrate are difficult to expand
because of competition from other fruits, fresh or processed. For the time
being, therefore, the emphasis would be on export markets, where exporters
are confident that the existing penetration could be broadened despite tariff
barriers. The expanding shoe and leather goods industry provides a perma-
nent domestic market for tanned hides, and export potential for hides and
skins appears to be promising. Demand for wool is restricted to the domestic
market and its expansion is related to that of the local textile industry.
C. Prices
6.06      Consumer price policy is regulated by a Comissao Interministerial
de Precos (CIP), which has the responsibility for supervising prices of all
processed or manufactured goods, with the objective of maintaining orderly
price trends. CIP price policy falls into four general categories: (a)
prices regulated a-priori on the basis of consultation with relevant institu-
tions, such as the Superintendencia Nacional do Abastecimiento (SUNAB), Con-
selho Nacional de Abastecimiento (CONAB), and Companhia Brasileira de



- 22 -
Alimientos (COBAL): (b) supervised prices, which can be raised by enterprises
upon notification to CIP; (c) supervised but unregulated prices, which are
under constant surveillance by CIP but are not subject to control; and
(d) sectorial agreements under which CIP, together with the industry concerned,
determines changes in certain price levels.
6.07      Government policy is to control prices with a light hand, allowing
for reasonable cost increases. As soon as the supply of a controlled item be-
comes plentiful, the price is immediately decontrolled. Probably the best
example of the intent and workiings of prtce policy ts the case of fresh meat
which falls under the supervision of SUNAB. In this case, only the beef fore-
quarter is controlled, the better quality hindquarter and edible offal being
allowed to find their own price levels. Poultry and pork are uncontrolled so
that these products can find their respective price levels in relation to the
basic beef price.
D. Operating Results
6.08      Financial models have been prepared to demonstrate the return from
typical investments under the project. The financial rates of return range
from 13% for tanneries to 35% for beef processing plants. Details are pro-
vided in Annexes 4 to 7 and are summarized on the ext page. Such returns
should be sufficiently attractive to insure participation in the project.



- 23 -
(Cr$ million)
Description               Meat        Oilseed        _lilk            Miscellaneous
Small/-- Lare/2   Medium    Small/- Larg/-           Tannery/
Investment          35.6     61.3       82.3       9.2     20.0            52.6
Income
Gross revenue    95.3    190.1       196.3      28.1     90.9            65.0
Operating cost/7 82.3    152.7       149.4      23.8     73.7            52.0
Taxes              2.6      9.3       11.5                4.4             2.5
Net cash income  10.5      28.1       34.4       3.3     12.9            10.5
Debt service       5.5      9.4       12.7       1.4      3.1             7.8
Net cash flow      6.0     20.5       25.0       9.1      1.8             4.7
Financial rate of
return (Z)      20.75    34.95      33.05    33.05    33.35            13.35
/1   Beef processing plant capacity: 300 head/day production for domestic
market.
/2   Beef processing plant capacity: 600 head/day production for domestic
and export markets.
/3   Soybean processing plant capacity: 600 tons/day production for domestic
market.
/4   Cheese and butter plant capacity: 50,000 liters/day production for
domestic market.
/5   Powdered milk and butter plant capacity- 150,000 liters/day production
for domestic market.
16   Tannery capacity: 1,000 hides/day production for domestic and export
markets.
/7   Income tax; added value tax included in operating costs.
NOTE: For details, see Annexes 4 to 7 (models) and Annex 11, Table 1.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      In assessing the project's economic feasibility, each major compo-
nent has been analyzed separately to determine its economic rate of return
and its contributions to employment and balance of payments. On the basis
of these criteria, meat, oilseed, grain and milk processing are all econo-
mically justified. The economic justification for miscellaneous processing
would vary with the nature of each individual subproject and cannot presently
be determined.



- 24 -
7.02      Primary benefits from increased and improved beef processing facili-
ties include an improvement in beef quality, increased production, and better
utilization of by-products. Benefits from oilseed processing, which would
involve turning small inefficient plants into larger more efficient installations,
would principally take the form of net value added, more efficient oil extrac-
tion and expansion of the feed industry. Milk processing and the processing
of miscellaneous agricultural products would generate primary benefits in
the form of net value added and, in some cases. import substitution.
7.03      For the project as a whole, secondary benefits would accrue to in-
put suppliers. including farmers, civil works contractors, equipment suppliers,
and workers employed in agro-industries. Product users, namely, the general
consuming public, would also benefit from more assured supplies. Aside from
the general secondary benefits, the pror,osed project is designed to give
added impetus to the development of the relatively less developed regie-n"  ^f
the project area, such as Mato Grosso, Santa Catarina and Esnirito Santo.
7.04      On the basis of expected economic costs and benefits, indicative
economic rates of return for individual subprojects have been calculated and
subjected to sensitivity tests. These are detailed in Annex 11, Table 2, and
can be summarized as follows:
Sector
Beef Processing Oil Processing Dairy
Best estimates                       37              45            47
Investment costs up 15%              12              23            18
Operating cost up 20%                32              38            39
Operating income down 15%             5              16            10
7.05      During construction, the project should provide annual employment
for about 4,000 people. Thereafter, approximately 7,000 permanent jobs
should be created in the new plants and processing facilities set up under
the project. While the project would indirectly benefit a wide variety of
people (para 7.03), the relative impact on each group of beneficiaries is
not possible to quantify. Annual revenues generated by the project in the
form of income and value-added taxes can be estimated at about Cr$ 250 million
(US$32 million) at full development. The net export income for the lifespan
of the project is estimated at US$216 million and the foreign currency invest-
ment at US$83 million (para 4.07 and Annex 11).
7.06      Improvements in hygiene and better utilization of by-products should
considerably reduce the existing meat processing plants' undesirable effects
upon the environment. Most new facilities to be financed under the project
would be located close to production areas where population density is con-
siderably lower than in urban centers: hence, the need for safeguards against
air pollution would be minimal. Those located in urban areas are generally



- 25 -
covered by existing zoning laws which take cognizance of such aspects as
noise, odor and air pollution. Adequate safeguards against water pollution
would be provided for under the project through requirements to adhere to
existing regulations. and, in the case of meat processing, specific treatment
of effluent.
7.07      In essence, the project would serve as an important catalyst to
stimulate agro-industrial development in Brazil. It would complement present
efforts to increase agricultural production, thus providing the agricultural
sector with expanding markets and the consuming public with better quality
products at lower real prices. By indirectly assisting the participating
banks, it would help improve their ability and capacity to meet Brazil's con-
tinuing need for medium- and long-term credit. Additionally, the experience
gained with the first and second agro-industrial credit projects would also
be important for other projects of a similar type in areas with a less
developed institutional framework, such as the north and northeast regions of
Brazil.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
The Government would:
(a) make available US$83 million to the Central Bank on the same
financial terms and conditions as the Bank loan (para 4.11);
and
(b) ensure that Project Account would be audited annually by an
independent auditing unit in the Ministry of Finance and
certified copies and a description of audit procedures would
be forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end of the
financial year (para 5.11).
The Central Bank would:
(a) consult with the Bank on the qualifications and terms of
reference of key staff, including consultants. for the
Project Team. In addition, it would hire consultants as
required for review of subprojects and would train two
senior executives of the Project Team in food technology
and in the economuics of agro-industries (para 5.02);
(b) support the initiatives of BNDE to improve the management
and technical capabilities of the participating banks
(para 5.02);
(c) support BNDE in its efforts to recapitalize the state
development banks (para 5.04);



- 26 -
(d)  obtain prior Bank approval for the first subloan presented
by each new participating bank (para 5.07):
(e)  obtain prior Bank approval for subloans which bring the
aggregate financing under the program for any one
sub-borrower to more than US$5 million or USS3 million
in respect of non-food or feed processing subprojects
under the miscellaneous category (para 5.07); and
(f)  ensure that the lending criteria outlined in Schedule A
would be followed (para 5.07).
8.02      A condition of disbursement against Central Bank refinancing of
subloan disbursements of participating banks would be the signing of sub-
sidiary loan agreements between the Central Bank and the participating banks.
These agreements would incorporate the provisions outlined in Schedule A
(para 4.11) of this report.
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$83 million, for a term of 15 years, including a four-year grace period.
June 29, 1976



SCHEDULE A
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Criteria
The following provisions would be included in the subsidiary loan
agreements to be signed between the Central Bank and the participating
banks for implementation of the project:
Equity participations
1.   In cases where the participating bank has an equity interest
in the applicant firm, arrangements satisfactory to the Central
Bank would be made for an independent appraisal of the proposed
subproject.
2.   Project funds would not be made available to any participating
bank if:
(a) the aggregate of the participating bank's lending to, and
equity participation in, any single enterprise exceeded
either of the following:
(i)  25% of the participating bank's net worth, i.e.,
paid-up equity plus free reserves, or
(ii) 50% of the total assets of an enterprise
(these limitations would not apply to short-term
financing of seasonal working capital needs), or
(b) the equity investments of the participating bank in any
single enterprise exceeded 20% of the capital of the
enterprise, except in extraordinary circumstances.
Provisions
3.   The participating banks would establish and maintain provisions
by annual appropriations at a level deemed appropriate by the
Central Bank to cover bad debts.
Auditing
4.   Participating banks would be subject to regular examination by
external auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in respect of all their
activities, and a signed copy of the auditors' report, together
with certified copies of annual accounts, would be forwarded to
the Bank within four months of the end of each financial year.



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
In the course of the examination, the auditors would make a
specific review of project accounts and would carry out spot
checks of individual sub-projects to insure that project
conditions were being complied with. The auditors' report
would describe the review and checks undertaken.
5.   In the case of the Banco do Brasil (BB), the following
requirements on accounts and auditing would apply:
(a)  the BB would maintain separate accounts at its head office
for operations under the Lending Program, including disburse-
ment documents for each subloan, and would be subject to
regular annual audit by the Central Bank of project accounts,
including accounts of branches involved in the project;
(b) A signed copy of the Central Bank's auditors' report, to-
gether with certified copies of annual project accounts
kept by BB would be forwarded to the Bank within four
months of the end of BB's financial year. In the course
of their examination, the Central Bank's auditors would
carry out spot checks of individual beneficiaries to insure
that project conditions were being complied with. The
auditors' report would describe the review and checks
undertaken.
Subloan Conditions
6.   Subloans would be limited to 80% of the total cost of fixed
investment (excluding the cost of land) and working capital
up to 30% of fixed investments financed by subloans and
would be granted for a term of 10 years, including a
maximum of three years' grace. They would carry an interest
rate of 3% to 5%, 1/ plus adjustment based on the National
Treasury Bonds (ORTN) price, and a commitment fee of 1/2%
would be paid on undisbursed loan balances. The partici-
pating banks would also charge an appraisal fee of up to 1% of
the investment costs. Refinancing from the Central Bank would
carry an interest rate of 1/2% to 2-1/2% with ORTN indexing.
7.   The participating banks would meet additional short-term financing
requirements for working capital not filled by the sub-borrowers
or the commercial banks or the project.
1/   3% for Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso, Santa Catarina and the region
north of the 18th parallel in Minas Gerais; 5% in all other
states.



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
8.   The participating banks would reimburse the Central Bank
according to the same repayment schedules established for
sub-borrowers.
9.   The participating banks would require a feasibility study to be
undertaken for each subproject. Any applicants considered
by the participating banks as not having adequate expertise
to prepare their own studies would be required to engage
consultants to perform them. Participating banks would
prepare a list of approved consultants for use by the
applicants.
10.   Feasibility studies would cover the technical, organizational,
financial and commercial aspects of subprojects. Particular
attention would be paid to the following:
(a) inclusion of financial statements certified by auditors
approved by the participating banks in the case of sub-
projects involving the rehabilitation or extension of
existing enterprises where total investment under the
project exceed USS1 million:
(b) compliance with all relevant Government regulations,
especially environmental protection standards and, in
the case of beef and milk processing, the federal hygiene
regulations
(c) inclusion of filtration or pondage systems for treatment
of effluents in meat subprojects;
(d) provision for future plant expansion in meat subprojects;
(e) indication of export potential for subprojects falling
in the miscellaneous processing category;
(f) inclusion of a component for training of technical personnel
in each subproject, as appropriate;
(g) presentation of cash flow projections and calculation of
the financial rate of return for each subproject and the
calculation of the economic rate of return for subprojects
requiring authorization by the Central Bank. The appraisal
of projects with a value in excess of US$2 million equivalent
will include the calculation of the economic rate of return,
made either by the state and regional development banks
or by the Central Bank:
(h)  analysis of the adequacy of the supply of raw materials
and the demand for final products, both domestic and foreign,
including projections of both supply and demand.



SCHEDULE A
Page 4
11. Appraisal of subprojects by the participating banks would
cover the same aspects as those included in the feasibility
studies. In addition, the following points would be given
particular emphasis:
(a) managerial competence of the applicants;
(b) financial condition of the applicants, including the
adequacy of their debt/equity ratio and the debt
service coverage after the inclusion of the proposed
investment;
(c) availability of sufficient working capital for the
applicant's present and future operations; and
(d) overall supply and demand situation for the industry,
taking into consideration present and planned capacity
within the participating banks' respective spheres of
operation and, to the extent feasible, in other regions
as well.
12.   The Central Bank and the participating banks would hire consultants
to evaluate the technical aspects of the subprojects involving
expertise not found among their regular personnel.
13.   Procurement procedures would be decided upon by the sub-borrowers
with the concurrence of the participating banks. As a general
rule, the participating banks would require that sub-borrowers
obtain quotations from at least three contractors or suppliers
and submit them to the participating banks for review of quality,
suitability, and price of goods.
14.   The participating banks would disburse directly to suppliers,
except in extraordinary circumstances.
15.   The participating banks would make quarterly inspection visits
to sub-borrowers during the implementation period and annual
visits during the remainder of the subloan term.
16.   The participating banks would insure that all project meat and
milk plants were inspected by DIPOA or equivalent agencies.
17.   All oilseed processing subprojects would involve the adoption of
solvent extraction techniques.



ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
General Economy and the Agricultural Sector
1.        The general economy of Brazil and its agricultural sector in
recent years achieved considerable growth. The major parameters of the
economy are reflected in Table 1, which presents some selected national
account statistics.
2.         The growth of the total and economically active population (Table
2) indicates an increasing domestic demand, particularly for the major prod-
ucts of the agro-industrial project which, combined with increasing per
capita incomes, result in a significant expansion of the consumer market.
3.         The value of agricultural exports has also increased, largely
through increased prices in the case of traditional exports, but also in
volumes of non-traditional exports. Table 3 presents the value of selected
traditional and non-traditional agricultural projects for the period 1971-80.
4.         Table 4 presents the estimated production, consumption and demand
of project-related agricultural projects in 1975 and 1980, while Table 5 in-
dicates actual production, area planted, average yields and crop value in the
project area in 1973. These tables indicate the production potential and
projected demand that provide a large portion of project justification.
5.         The Fundacao Getulio Vargas (FGV) published in early 1974 demand
projections for an array of basic consumption items - based on a series of
data for the period 1950-70 - and family budget data collected in consumer
surveys during 1967/68. Per capita consumption data and per capita real
income data were derived on the basis of standard population estimates, and
the income series and cost-of-living index computed and published by FGV.
The latter is used by the Government as the official index. Two sets of
projections of aggregate demand for a range of consumption items are set
forth in Table 6, based on two different sets of elasticities. In Table 7
a range of projections of demand for individual commodities based on differ-
ent rates of increase for the real income variable are presented. The lower
limit of that range is given by FGV nodel, and the upper limit represents
the maximum tolerance for disposable income of consumption expenditures es-
timated according to forecasts of the balance of payment situation.
6.         Finally, production forecasts have been compared with the most
likely demand projection level for each commodity to compute a supply balance
as presented in Table 8. A positive balance indicates a surplus condition,
or export availabilities where external markets exist. A negative balance
would indicate probable import necessity or policy measures to encourage
incremental production to fulfill indicated domestic shortfalls.



SECOND AGRO-STRIM  CREDIT PROJECT
Selected National Aocounts Statistics
Average Actual Est4iates        Projectlona                 Growth rates
1971-72   1973     1974     1975     1976     1980    1970-74 1975  1975-40 190-65
Gross DQuestio Product (GDP)   66,159  77s891   85,680   91,569   97,552   126,965   11.1       6.9   6.8    7e3
Gains from terms of trade     - 477    -       - 553    - 804   -1,153      - 679     -       -     -      -
Gross domestic income        65,682  77,891   85,127   90,765   96,399   126,286   1.1l      6.6   6.8    7.4
Imports (including NFS)          6,002   7,577   10,278    9,654    9,698    12,366   25.0    -6.1   5.1    9.2
Exports                          4s,841  6,596    6,038    7,102   7,481   11,559   10.2    17.6 10.2   11.2
Domestic consumption (C)        52s,660  61,529   66,959   71,578   74,3450    95,009    9.8    6.9   5.8    7.0
Gross domestic irvetmrents (GDI)14,,183 17,3343  22,408   21,739   24,t166   32,084   22.0   -1.0   8*1    8.0
Domestic savings (DS)           13s022  16,362   18,168   19,187   21,949    31.277  16.4       5.6 10.3    9.7
Ratios in %:
DS/GDP                       19.7    21.0    21.2      21.0    22.5         24.6
C/GDP                        79.6    79.0     78.2     78.2    76.3         74.8
Soureel IBRD. National accounts data revied in September 1974 to reflect data obtained frmzn 1970 census.
July 1975
15 



ANNEX 1
Table 2
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projections of Total and Economically Active Population
('000 inhabitants)
Assuming Constant Growth Rate Assuming Variable Growth Rate
Economically                    Economically
Total         Active          Total            Active
Year           Population    Population       Population      Population
1970           92,921,1      29.084,3         92.921,1        29.084,3
1971           95,556,9   219.861,5           95.478,2        29.836,9
1972           98.267,5      30.659,5         98,093,1        30.605,0
1973          101,054,9      31.478,6        .LOO,763,7       31.387,9
1974          103e921.,5     32,319,6    |L03,491,6           32.185,9
1975          106,869,2"    33.182,9         106.277,7        32.999,2
1976          109.900;7      34.069,2        109.122,6        33.828,0
1977          113.018,1      35,826,7        112.027,1        35.512,6
1978          11.b6224,0     37.,6-(.;.1     114.991,9        37.211,4
1979          119.520,8      39.406,0       1l18.017,7        38.910,4
1980          122.91141    41,22/':,4        121.105,2        40.618,7
1985        1 141.361,0      50.748,6        137,191,6        49,359,5
I 162,580,3      616276,5        155.5L8,5        58,614,9
Source:  Fundacao Getulio Vargas, Centro de Estudos Agricolas,
Centro de Estudos Demograficos, IBGE.
July 1975



BRAZIL
T able 3
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Value of Selected Agricultural Exports
(US$ niLllion) /1
Average
1971-72   1973  1974   1975  1976  1978   1980
Traditional Exports
Coffee grains             1,216   1,244   804 1s185  1,185  19220  1,220
Cotton                      197      218    64   208    216   247   262
Sugar                       376      553  4ki5   514   565   623   687
Cocaa                       118       89   139   128   134   144   156
Tobacco                      56       58    84    83    87    96   106
Sub-total                 1,963    2,162  1,536 2,11   2,187  2,330  2,l431
Non-traditional Exports
Corn                         56        3    85    96   101   3U    122
Beef                        185      148    29    45    75    75    90
Soybean                     173      494   754   968 1,11   1,287  1,487
Soybean meal and cake       309      423   543   668   768   888 1,026
Sisal                        55       59    52    55    55    55    55
Solib1l a.ffo*               73     100    99   102   102   102.   102
Other primary agrioul-
tural products            400      407   358   362   380   433   500
Sub-tatal                  1,251    1,634 1,920 2,296  2,595  2s951  3,382
Total                      3,214   39796  3s456 4k,h   4s782 5,281  5,813
Percentage of total goods
and Non-Factor Servioes (NFS) 60,4    57.6.  52.4  55.8  55.4  52.4  47.5
/1  Constant (1973) prices.
Source: IBRD.
July 1975



ANNEX I
Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Production, Consumption and Demand of
Agricultural Products in 1975 and 1980
(tons '000)
Production          Consumption           Demand
1975     1980      1975     1980       1975       1980
Fresh beef                      1,781    2,069    1,500    1,625        1,967     2,533
Processed beef                     80        76       53        49         92       111
Milk and milk products /       10,339   13,273   10,985   14,026    11,178    14,782
Oranges                         3,621    4,648    3,827    4,850       3,887      5,047
Vegetable oils                    534       763      581       768        498        630
/1 Includes fresh milk, processed milk (powdered and condensed), butter and cheese.
Source: Centro de Estudos Agricolas, IBRDE/FGV.
July 1975






19                                         -                                     -             "O..~~~~~5n.:ZI
P-Wh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~scr A-DID52F C2I rJe
A's. rLIsed E ridItss. As.a Tilds .1.1 "is 7.1.. Pir huat.) Cr-rs is lbs FoulsOe 0us 119731
Kres Ois.iid    P'sdsltnls    Pssd,stlss    *2u.tq. 51.1).          0iV.                                              1t.i 8 .rw  td    Ptsd.rii.    Pridioliss   luiig  Tut               9.1 ( O . 
51'*                                                                                                                     li-i
Prilist  's.                                   7167           liii         195                441CR           itsiil                                  06.1           5995 150.0                    111                580.3
Out) *r93,5                                             $                         22.320                T              !_r                                  119.5           146.7           24.9          _2                 1.
sta rzt.ri     .             .....     .     ... . 107.2  M. 120.1      3,2074               910.0             lii 050515  5   i                    9.6             10.4           1            107 0.9
Mails ls's'ii  107.0         201.1           3.1        1,074                111,1             Oust lblttiii                        7,4             2.6            0.4         5,979                 1.....6.4  2.  0.4  On  2.
472.1           611.1           9.2        1,660               443.6              Pat                                107.5            133.7          22 7         1,244              122.
Ihllil_.t                              1 400.3        1 41.?          I2'9         1.14              1 146.0 D                                               107.7           340.7          37.7          1414                 .0
Mis Pull                               32-.7           002.9          43          1,130              447.4               6.5 Fish                           277.9           331.4          36.2          1,195              341.0
iloso 4i'.ii                     701.0           020.0         11.4         1,060               555.2               Asin  O iriii                       9.1             9.7           1.5            952                 7,4
piswitiW Sash                           59.0            93.1           1.3        1,303                i9.1              S-71ripAni 60                        0.6                            -             933                 0.5
iii di Jn.iri                           60.4           117.7           1.6        1,949                65.3              lii di 48u:1o                        0.1             0 l                          937                 6.1
-ir*                                      I             -              -            -                  ,                 875 I-
lsil.'.Oois                 ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~12395.2  194.9       272         1,397              17                ___
osli.        923.1          1.1)5.9         n!?          1:263             .jL...            lssiis-0.ss                           394              09.9          15.4          1.625               84.9~~r_77  -a  ".  1.02
:C3:1                                     11:.;:3                                   i                                  1.0             (.2            0.2         1.191                 1.5
lzo  swsso i.                          472.1           702.3          10.9        1.457               132.6              iii. risosi                         670               . 4           5 13.2      1,022                83.3
Pid.I.l bi-Lssit                        0 2                5           0,0        2,0 D.3                               Pidil OlMorils                        _                                          1,300
issall                 3914 0          2 216.9        109.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-E  5M   4  1.             rs                                     90             44.7          iOO.0            90               73 
Bess                                  Vnz                484           23.2          69-4            1.231,2                                                                 n 1.  8.       -iL147
0      u                                               176.6           7.06 W.                                                      as.1                      0.10
Baits C2x71..                          126.3            91,7         4.9           703               131.4              6-ti ists11                          .      t       o -
555550                      ~~~~~~           ~~~~~ ~ ~~719.3  472.l  21.2  494               623.35s..0.                                                             22           1.            ,5                  4.
5 t                           *~~~~     ~     ~       ~      ~~~~ ~~~~~~39.7  2 1_1 Z   7       3.                   r1.5                                            O' 2           23 9                   1 4       U.6
O.ishi.is097                                            402           2.              7              1 1301             Sith2s                                91             107.1           03.9         1.173
Sit piuli                              2n 270.7                        6.5           4                4.5 W.s  Pail                                          ii!             97             21.6         1,232
usia si'iis Ib477.3                                    20.            117           5391               40.7              Mis     ri                           1.7             10,3           2.3                              12.7
i.pt'tsi Soiss               00.4             42.9           1.1~~~11     3447.                                Opot 9501,                           .1              0.1.                         974                 0.1
i. di JM..1so                           11.3             6.3           0.1          570                12.1              ii  di Joistrs   2                                                                -
.ila.                                  1573.3                          2.3          491               104.0                 a                                 0.1             0.             .1     ' 5         '5DT
Miss itMii                              356.0           30.7           0.1          093                90.1             71l 0MM                              13.7             16.0           3.5         1,021                23.6
PidiVil ihi'isi0t.3                                     0.6                      1,202                 0.0              Pidl   histc                                          -2
440101                                                                                                                   1919559ID     25   Joz 7bgtIO.                                                          2 
Irisi   C2.109,0                                    2673   3320.3    120.2                          3.4.0            6'aii                                Lab? 11.109,3                    100.0 1D42                      3 1   2
P'il.olAsiC ts                         92.51 7        ItIW 29.7 2.4 21D5Ul.5                                         Psiliss Cns  74r^                      L1            1 534.0           06.3         I j543
isI                                      326.4                  7 11411. 27                           1 122.7           ss)                                                  6 0             54           1                 2 36
MIs Os.-. as Oil                       273.          1,203            1223161539                                         01. 0.di AMOl137.                                 ,2.11.                         ,9
0*50* 2*B1091              5             16          1,17.9             0.0      14-                                              st rl i                    08.1         1,360.3           11.1         1.930                -7.3
!itroa                                  01.0 53 7    1 1,084,)         7.1 24      ,370                173.3 L 5          P5itMO                          1,621,7         0.0.0             21.3         1,634               936.7
issihisit           291.3                          13.4      ~~~~~~        ~       ~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~14.094  429.4  3sl,ui0107.3            4903              3               0               .0,
is- bi                                   3.     *1                      .        17:334                141.              Si   iu                          ,021            2,3.6            it            1:626977
diii 6.oils       121.7         1,614,0           1,0       1~~~~~       ~       ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~4,911  1906  Mli   Mi.1062                 1,99.02           14.1         1,307               730,4
i.llS-Oi                           33.             413.3            1  1.0   7,73                  31.7             0plt., SMit                                 213. 2.9                1.7          1,00                 5,
2s d.  -uIb                             30.3           361.2           1.4       12,597                 34.3              i di Ji s                          60.3            6.2             0.3           92                 06.9
Oiiiihi..D0.7                                            9.5           -         13O,                    3.1               i_r,                               0.1             0 l            -,070                             0.
10.5.0-win                    ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~127.4  1 674   6.4    1500                 273.4           lssrO.0.                                               3.6             6.          1.364               33.6
C42AM                                  71.4 '                42                  1                    140,.3           C                                    441.7           704.             5.7         1,53                262.7
Ml"  ironsz                             35.6           430.7            .        17,843                130.20            044 Otii                           136.2            24531           1.7          1,354               74,3
PMdi'ii O nl Dist                        9.2             1.3           _         25,050                  0.9             Psdit.Ol istisic                     1.0             1.3            .           10 51                 0.6
snail                                    3.613.2         5.0121,6        100 .0                          5.5649            isrl IW                              14.90                                        1.71                 72 1
Satoli lou                                 61L53         345j4            99.9        1.004             33440            P7roItw t A.                           1                                            f77                  766
Isis)            ..sLj.,         445j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  60.0 ~~~~~ 1.372                         mii                                   3J14                           39           Li!I?
iio 0'r dM  di Oil                   2,217.0         2.672,1          57.3        1,293              3,313.9             61. 0Cridi di 6e1                  135.1            219.3          67.7         16                   61.4
Otis. cIssrins                         10i4            253.5           3.9        1,211               249.6              loiti ttitCi                        07                              .6         2,109                 0.9
Patios                                 017.0         1 326.3          26.5        1,622              1,I4.6              rirr                                 0,o7             1 4           0.6         1,966                 o.4
OSsIsOsit                                124.3           244.7           1  6         1                  333.92           Moir L                                435             17.1           9,8         M.527                 5,7
Sos Pius                               221,7           330.4           0,6        1,921                332.8             9-Pails                              4.3            .9             6.8         3, 924                1
Yitii  usiC .                           20.0            36.3           2.7        1,390                 23.6             Midas situ.                          0.1              0.1                        1 1,600              0.1
Mipitlsi biOlte                                          .             .            . _                                  hspiut5i Siiis                       0.1              0,1           -              8O .630
Isi dr J  isMs                                           -                                    -                          7ii  di J_irrl                      *. 
lOsbir                                  -.                             -            _                                    _ _ _ ,._,..                                                        _
5.stis.Oiol                   140,2~~~~~~~~~~"-  192.9        3,8         1,920               161,3            1IROM                                  iij5                            ,           .9
Cis Ir.4                                                0 29,7;Y       1.8        1,05U                 97.9             asC Vrr tfi1 0 7                                     49             1.9          1.6 24               0.3
Miss osi..i                             84.4           193,2           1.0        1,195                 93,0             Miss Ot C sO                         2,1              1.2           2,5          2 305                2.3
Pirsi 5Tl i5'sl                         ,        -          -            -                    -                          P_dissi Stiosrs t
Isiull  1.839,4  2.031,3        100.0        4.314             1.494,7
-i.sils a                                109394          21031,3         10           11                 1497
P.t-                                   1.705 4         1 999.3                      1.4,11
Us  sIo C d   Mu1                    1, 37.0         1,533.           75.7        1,119
sail  Cisis-si                          72,4            62.0           5,2          86                 4,.7
PM'.iu                                 341.0           284.7          1a,9        1,11                 24.9
Osilhiiis                                 28._            34             1,9        lAD                   10.9
-  piuli                                20.5            54.4           1,9        1,212                 10,9
MoistsCshits                            _                 _.                 
6AM 43 Juslso                          _.                            
049.06-i 
li5iMt3r1M.                               24,2            1,             2 0.3        233         4                                                                                                                                        v
oil  is...                               02              13.0          0,3          534                   ,.4
Psdi'ti Diat'1's                        -                -             -            --_






ANNEX 1
Table 6
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Income Elasticities of Demand for
Selected Food Products
Elasticity A /1           Elasticity B /2
Consumption                     1970    1975    1980    1970    1975    1980
Fresh Beef                       -0.19   -0.19   -0.19    0.51    0.51    0.51
Processed Beef                  -1.18   -0.95   -0.76    0.19    0.22    0.25
Fresh Pork                        0.69    0.69    0.69    0.83    0.86    0.89
Eggs                              0.68    0.59    0.52    0.62    0.62    0.63
Oranges                           0.55    o.49   044    0.55    0.55    0.56
Vegetables Oils                   0.91    0.76    0.65    0.39    0.41    0.42
Milk                              0.61    0.54    0.48    0.62    0.62    0.62
It Based on historical series of availability of commodities.
/2 Based on consumer surveys, family budgets.
Source: Fundacao Getulio Vargas.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Demand Projections
('000 tons)
Projections A /1                                                          Projections BL2
Per Capita Real Income -                1975                            1980                            1975                               1980
Rate of Increase (%)    7.4       8.0      8.5     9.1      7.4      8.0     8.5    9.1      7.4      8.0      8.5     9.1      7.4      8.0     8.5      9.1
Fresh beef              1,500   1,500   1,484   1,468   1,625   1,625   1,590  1,551   1,967   1,985   2,020   2,054   2,533   2,580   2,671   2,764
Processed beef              53      52       50      48       49       47      44      42       92      92       93       94      III     112      114     117
Fresh pork                 380     387      393     403      507      525     542    569      404      410      420     430      562      584      613     642
Processed pork              31      30       30       29      31       29       29     27     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Eggs                       523     528      537      546     673      686     704    728       523     528      537      550     691      710      734     765
Oranges                  3,465   3,496   3,558   3,589   4,385   4,463   4,583  4,664   3,525   3,556   3,618   3,679   4,582   4,703   4,826   5,033
Milk                    10,985  11,081  11,178  11,370  14,026  14,274  14,527 15,036  11,178  11,274  11,467  11,756  14,782  15,037  15,556  16,350
Vegetables oils            581     590      600      610     768      794      814    841      498     503      512      516     630      642      660     676
/1 Based on historical series on availabilities.
/2 Based on consumer surveys, household budget data.
Sources: Fundacao Getulio Vargas.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSmRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projection of Supply and Dem.and
Balances
----------- 1975 -------------------              ----------------- 1980 ---------
Produotion         Demand /1           Balance   Production       Demand /1             Balance
Fresh beef /2           ?i298       1,967   -   2,05Lh    331,  2)?4   2,862/3   2,533   -   2,76h,
Procersed beef              8f5              -                     - 27, _12  76 l9   -            111       27,   -35
FresY  p-'rk               316        380   -      hh    _ 34,   58        444        507   -      562      -63,  -118
Processed pork              37          31   -       -          6           1.O        31   -       -          -9
'gcr                      54?2              583            - hi            696        750   -      768      -51t   -72
Orangp's                3,621       3,827   -   3,887    -206, -266   4,648         L,850   -   5, Ol7    -202,  -399
Vetet-.'e oils             531h       581   -      hL98    - 47,   -3      763        768   -      630       -5,  -133
Milk                   10,339      10,985   -  11,178    -646, -839  13,273    1 4,026   -  1),782    -i53,   5 9
/1 Proiections A.
72" Projections B.
D-~ Planave projections.
Sf-urce: Fundacan Getulio Vargas.
July 1975
b-4tw
cs 



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Industrial and Agricultural Credit
A. Overview of the Financial System
1.         Brazil's economy is extensively and competitively served by a
network of public and private financial institutions (see Chart 1). The
system is headed by the National Monetary Council and controlled by the
Central Bank (BC). Its other predominant institutions are the Bank of
Brazil (BB) and the National Development Bank (BNDE), the latter supplying
financing facilities to public and private investment banks. Besides the
federally and state-owned commercial and development banks, the country fea-
tures a very substantial and active private banking sector.
B. General Banking Aspects
2.         Whereas the most important source for long- and medium-term credit
to agriculture is BB, BNDE handles by far the largest volume of industrial
investment loans, based mainly on national but also on foreign resources. In
mid-1975 the effective cost of commercial short-term loans was about 30% to
35% per annum, compared to an annual rate of inflation estimated at 25%.
Medium- and long-term non-agricultural loans were generally indexed according
to ORTN 1/ and carried 3% to 12% interest. Agricultural loans bore 0% to 17%
interest without monetary correction; thus, interest in real terms was heavily
negative. 2/
3.         Lending in Brazil is strongly collateral-oriented' and arrears are
small. Few institutions are familiar with the techniques of project lending
and most still have difficulties in project preparation and even more in pro-
ject supervision.
C. Detailed Institutional Features
4.         The Brazilian financial system is controlled by the National Monetary
Council (CMN) appointed by the President of the Republic and headed by the
Minister of Finance. Its members include the Presidents of BC, BB and BNDE.
1/    Monetary correction, widely used in Brazil, is based mainly on the
index of National Treasury Bonds (ORTN), which is based, in turn, on
the general price index.
2/    The exception was the Bank-financed loans for livestock, grain storage,
and agro-industries that do carry monetary correction.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Its tasks are wider than the name implies and include all facets of financial
and monetary policies.  It is the central policy-making and governing body of
the economy.  The CNN is assisted by a series of advisory committees, includ-
ing committees for agricultural credit and for industrial credit. The CMN
has three executing agencies, BC, BB and BNDE, dealing with various aspects
of financing and controls.
Banco Central do Brasil (BC)
5.         BC is responsible for executing the overall monetary and credit
policies. Its regulations govern the financial system and pertain to finan-
cial transactions as well as to institutional responsibilities and limita-
tions. In addition to its normal functions, it attends to special tasks,
such as the financing of BB, the National Cooperative Bank (BNCC) and other
federal banks, especially in order to assume adequate credit to agriculture.
Recently it established and now administers an agricultural credit insurance
system (PROAGRO). BC is the primary financial channel of the First Agro-
industries Project and supplies all the counterpart lending funds. In 1974
it established a separate department for industrial and special credit (GESPE)
that handles the First Agro-industries Project and would handle the Second
Agro-industries Project by means of a special project unit. Whereas the
majority of the industrial funds are managed by BNDE, the Central Bank ad-
ministers two internal industrial development funds 1/, including the Bank's
Agro-industrial Project.
Banco do Brasil (BB)
6.         BB is placed directly under control of the CMN and only partly
supervised by BC. BB is the country's oldest financial institution and, with
assets equivalent to US$17.6 billion by end 1974, is the largest bank in
Latin America 2/. Its services include comprehensive commercial banking and
a very extensive agricultural credit portfolio. In addition it attends to
specific tasks for the Government such as tax collection, administration of
minimum price programs, purchasing and storage of certain basic commodities,
and financing and control of exports and imports by means of its foreign
trade department (CACEX), which also performs para-fiscal duties such as the
issue of import and export licenses. A "thumbnail sketch" of BB's assets
and liabilities shows:
1/    FIBEB = Financing Fund for the Importation of Productive Assets;
PAFAI - Financial Assistance for Farm Machinery Production.
2/    Until 1964, BB performed the functions of a central bank also.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(US$ billion equivalent)
Assets          1974      1973       Liabilities          1974       1973
Loans and Credits   16.8 /1   12.1  Capital and Reserves    1.7           1.2
Cash                  0.2      n.a.  Deposits                   9.9       7.4
Others                0.6        0.7  Rediscounts etc.         5.4        3.4
Others                   0.6        0.8
Total                     17.6       12.8                           17.6       12.8
Its debt/equity ratios were 10.3:1 and 11.1:1 in 1974 and 1973, respectively.
7.        The profitability of BB is high, amounting to 52% of yearly average
equity in real terms in 1974. A large volume of Government deposits at zero
percent interest and rediscounts at concessionary rates resulted in the aver-
age cost of deposits being about 1% in 1974, whereas the return on the average
loan was 7.3%; BB's profitability was correspondingly high (para 17).
8.        In 1974, BB accounted for 63% of all agricultural and about 24% of
all industrial loans in Brazil. Though its main business is short-term lend-
ing, its medium- and long-term loans to agriculture and livestock amounted to
US$1.8 billion in 1973, or 39% of all such loans (figure for end of 1974 not
yet available). Some 2,400 of its 57,000 employees are seconded to other
institutions, including Banco Central, thus extending its influence well
beyond its formal boundaries. BB has about 880 branches, 860 of which are
in the country and more than 600 in the project area. Branch managers enjoy
considerable independence of action within strictly defined limits and this,
plus the vast resources they can draw on, make them most formidable compet-
itors for standard banking business. But, lacking regional decentralization,
all operations - including all loans under the Agro-industries Project -
beyond the branches' authority are highly centralized and correspondingly
cumbersome.
9.        BB is the executing agency for the Grain Storate Project (857-BR,
US$30 million of 1972), and, with its deep involvement in agricultural credit
and extensive network of branches, could effectively complement the state
development banks (paras 14 through 18) in executing the Agro-industries
Project. This has not happened so far, however, because of lack of decen-
tralization and technical staff to handle this type of relatively large sub-
project. Branch managers do not appear to have professional backgrounds of
the type that would be conducive to the kinds of subloans that would be dealt
with under the project. Additionally, amounts involved exceed the managers'
lending limit, which means they must get authorization from the head office,
apparently rather time consuming.
10.       BB recently established a Division for Technical Analysis (DIPRO)
in Brasilia to evaluate subprojects, but the unit is small (19 technicians,
to be expanded to 36 within 12 months). Considering the number and dispersal
of branches and managers' lack of familiarity and pressure of other work, it
1/   Including agricultural credits of US$4.7 billion -- industry, US$3.3
billion and US$0.4 billion for food industries, mainly sugar.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
seems doubtful whether one technical unit dealing with the project located
at the head office would have much effect. DIPRO handles, in addition to
agro-industries, all agricultural loans beyond US$250,000 and loans for urban
infrastructure and roads, performs sector studies, and administers BB's tax
incentive investment portfolio. All these tasks seem to prevent BB from
playing a major role in executing the Second Agro-industries Project. To
promote the project by equalizing receipts from it with those of other loans,
the head office gives branches a "book-keeping" credit of 7% interest in ad-
dition to the 5% paid by the sub-borrower. 1/ It also intends to conduct
short courses for branch managers on project preparation.
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE) 2/
11.       BNDE, also directly controlled by the CMN, is the central agency
for executing public investment and development policies and its influence is
felt throughout the financial system (total assets US$4.1 billion by end 1974).
BNDE lends both directly and indirectly; it is the major financial resource
of the state development banks and is important also to the private invest-
ment banks. Equity amounted to US$2 billion and total borrowings to about
the same amount by end 1974 (1973-US$0.8 billion) 3/, about 17% from external
sources. It follows that the debt equity ratio (1:1) is very low. BNDE
assists the Government in executing its development policies by sectoral and
regional allocation and differential pricing of loans, nearly all of which
carry monetary correction, with interest rates varying between 3% and 9%.
Equity investments amounted to US$0.6 billion in 1974 (US$0.4 billion in
1973). A Bank project to assist the development of small- and medium-scale
industry has been appraised and would be handled by BNDE.
Sectoral Development Banks
12.       The two sectoral development banks -- Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(BNH) and the Banco Nacional do Credito Cooperativo (BNCC) -- do not parti-
cipate in the agro-industries project, but, as the state development banks
draw part of their funds from BNH, some indirect connections exist. BNH is
federally controlled by the Ministry of Interior and channels funds deposited
with the Federal Savings and Loan Association (Caixa Economica Federal) into
mortgage loans for housing. Its operations are substantial, with assets in
1974 of US$6.9 billion. 4/ BNCC is controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture
and lends to agricultural and other cooperatives throughout Brazil by means
of about 20 branches. Its impact is limited by its size. Loans in 1974
amounted to US$70 million.
1/   BB's internal branch profit and loss accounts apparently do not feature
incomes and expenses from monetary correction.
2/   For a detailed analysis see Brazil, Appraisal of Development Banking
Project, Report No. 932a-BR.
3/   In 1974, it started to concentrate the social security funds belonging
to the majority of the federal employees (PASEP and PIS funds)
supposedly amounting to US$150 million yearly.
4I   BNH is associated with the Bank's water supply projects.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Regional Development Banks (RDBs)
13.       The regional development banks include federally controlled institu-
tions such as the Banco do Nordeste (BNIB) and the Banco da Amazonia (BASA)
established by special law to implement federal policies in their respective
regions. Both are controlled by the Ministry of the Interior and both handle
commercial banking business, basing part of their financial strength on de-
posits from federal tax initiatives. By contrast, the Banco de Desenvolvimento
do Extremo Siil (BRDE), formed under a different decree, is owned by the states
of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, and Santa Catarina. It does not have access to
federal tax initiatives and is not allowed to accept deposits or conduct
commercial banking business. In a way, it is a true regional development
bank closely resembling the state development banks. Two of the three states
it serves feature also separate state development banks and Rio Grande do Sul
is in the process of organizing one. No division of labor between BRDE and
the respective state development banks has, however, been formulated so far.
State Development Banks (SDBs) 1/
14.       State development banks (SDBs) are the principal financial channels
for the First Agro-industries Project. By end of 1974, Brazil featured 10
SDBs 2/, six of them in the project area. But only two -- BADEP and BADESP --
were actively promoting the project, besides BRDE, a regional development bank
discussed above. SDBs, established since the 1960s, operate within the frame-
work of federal and state policies. They seek to promote economic development
by providing long-term loans to enterprises in priority sectors. Generally,
they do not accept deposits and are not permitted to have branch offices.
Although SDBs are small in comparison to BB and BNDE (the assets of those
participating in the project at the end of 1974 ranged from US$40 to US$350
million), they are an important source of long-term financing for industry,
and especially agro-industry (Tables 1 and 2). SDBs' share of medium- and
long-term loans varies from state to state. In Sao Paulo, it is about 10%
and in Rio Grande do Sul, it is claimed to be about 50%. Almost all the
share capital is in the hands of the respective state governments, with
additional funds coming mainly from BNDE.
15.       SDBs are regulated by the Central Bank, though their financing as
well as their operational affinity allies them strongly with BNDE. The
Central Bank's regulations determine the volume of contractual obligations
per unit of capital: in assets, the banks are allowed to handle loans in
national currency up to five times their equity, plus loans in foreign cur-
rency twice their equity; in liabilities, they may contract external funds
up to 15 times their paid-up capital and reserves. The loan portfolio of
the SDBs is mainly long-term, although some of the banks carry up to one-
third of their portfolios in short-term loans, about two-thirds of total loans
go to industry and the rest mainly to agriculture.
1/   For detailed analysis see Brazil, Appraisal of Development Banking
Project, Report No. 932a-BR.
2/   The SDB of Rio de Janeiro is to be enlarged in the wake of the creation
of the new State of Rio de Janeiro; its paid-up capitalof ^r$ 40 mil-
lion is to be increased to Cr$ 100 million by mid-1975. The 11th SDB,
BADESUL, sponsored by the State of Rio Grande do Sul, is to be launched
in early 1976 with an initial capital of Cr$ 150 million.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
16.        The Boards of Directors are politically appointed, with the State
Governor having the principal say. The banks have rather extensive techni-
cal staff, 1/ and are thus conditioned to project lending to an extent not
normally found in Brazil. Recently, however, most SDBs seem to have diffi-
culty in paying salaries adequate to expand their trained technical staff
or even to retain personnel they do have. Loans under the First Project
have been based on generally competent appraisals. Arrears on total port-
folio do not exceed 1% so far, but the banks are relatively young and many
loans are still in their grace period.
17.        In recent years profits have been insufficient to compensate for
the effects of inflation on the equity of the actively participating SDBs,
as shown below:
Participating Banks' Capital Increase or Decrease in Real Terms
(Cr$ million)
Average
Av.       Yearly
Yearly  Capital Ero-
Equity   During Obser-      Total       Period of  Capital sion Compared
Actual   vation Per . d    Capital    Observation Erosion  to End '74
Bank    End '74  Revaluated-  Erosion (3-2)   (Years)    (4:5)  % (6:2 x 100)
BADEP      244         483          -239           5          (48)        (20%)
BADESP     389         606          -217           4          (54)        (14%)
BRDE       305         499          -194           3          (65)        (21%)
BB      11,918       6,556         5,362           2        2,681         22%
/1    Equity at the beginning of the period plus yearly net profits (less
dividends paid) plus additional paid up capital revalued according
to ORTN Index changes per end 1974.
Though almost no dividends were paid by the SDBs in the period shown and no
alternative cost of capital was taken into consideration, the rate of capital
erosion was roughly equal to the rate of inflation. (This contrasts sharply
with BB's profit of 22% in real terms for the last two years.) This capital
erosion (though replenished by additional shareholders' equity investment) has
been caused mainly by certain types of loans made without monetary correctioLi,
the spread and leverage failing to compensate for inflation (para 18), a
reduction in spreads in certain lines of credit by BNDE (asking the SDBs to
contribute "to the maintenance of momentum in the economic development") and --
in certain banks -- high adi;,inistrative costs connected with relatively small
loans. The managements of the state development banks have been only partly
alerted to the erosion of Lhieir capital, were unable to define their loss
enters, and have not ye. taken remedial action or even planned such action to
increase their profitability in real terms.
1/    BADESP employs 63 economists, 28 engineers and agriculturalists.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
18.        In order to determine the loss and profit centers, the mission
analyzed Banco de Desenvolvimento de Sao Paulo (BADESP) data for the first
five months of 1975 and found that losses were mainly in rural credit.
Assuming an annual inflation rate of 25%, no loan losses, and a 5% return
on equity in real terms to build up reserves for future losses and/or pay
dividends, the interest spread on the total loan portfolio to cover the
non-financial lending costs had to amount to 2.3%. The average spread on
non-agricultural credits (2.02%) approached this figure, whereas the margin
on agricultural loans averaged only 0.27%. Agricultural loans were given
without monetary correction and their overall spread and leverage (1 to 4.5)
were absolutely unable to compensate for the rate of inflation (assumed at
25% per year). Although agricultural credits account for only 22% of total
loans. BADESP must expect a further erosion of its capital in 1975. Only
if the yearly rate of inflation would drop below 15% or margins and/or lever-
age would improve considerably could BADESP break even (Table 3). The sub-
ject of capital erosion and eventual Bank actions to confront have been
elaborated further in the context of the ongoing DFC loan to BNDE and SDBs.
SDB's accounts are professionally kept and adequately audited by external
auditors.
Private Investment Banks (PIBs)
19.        Brazil features 41 private investment banks (179 branches), fi-
nanced mainly by placing bonds on the money market and accepting term deposits
featuring various types of monetary correction. Additional means are supplied
by BNDE and external lenders such as the US Export-Import Bank. Several of
the PIBs are affiliated with Brazil's major commercial banking groups, and,
by means of the latter's network of branches, are able to operate nationwide.
Out of their internal resources, they lend both for working capital and for
medium-term investments. Normal rates of interest on their own resources are
12%, plus monetary correction, or 30 to 40% without monetary correction. Some
of the PIBs have technical staffs of engineers and agronomists, while others
contract consultants. Considering the financial strength of the major banks,
their facilities for short-term working capital loans, their decentralized
operations and the availability of well paid technical staff, selected PIBs
appear to be promising channels for the project.
D. Evaluation
20.        In the final analysis, Brazil has an extensive, basically sound
and well regulated banking system, effectively used as an instrument for the
execution of Government policies. Also, the system has had more experience
in operating under inflationary conditions than its counterparts in most
other countries.
21.        BNDE and the regional and state development banks are more devel-
opment oriented than the private banking sector, but also more sensitive to
political pressures. Financial management expertise is still rather limited
and thinly spread.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
22.        Banks lend mainly according to account profitability and collateral.
Project lending -- though making progress -- is still in iLs infancy. Some
broadening of the panel of PBs would insure the use of a larger slhare of the
banking system's scarce technical staff. Loan contracts in Brazil seem to be
deficient in that they do not feature certain convenants important for conduct-
ing business, such as assurances by tne borrower to maintain adequate equity.
23.        Though laudable first efforts have been made by the Centro
Brasileiro de Assistencia Gerencial a Pequena e Media Empresa (CEBRAE) to
supply extension to small industries, these will encounter difficulties in
obtaining long-term financing, partly because of lack of extension support.



ANNEX 2
Chart 1
THE BRAZILIAN FINANCIAL SYSTEM
(Institutional Overview)
- a  Advisory Comittee
Natonealry......   
Council
/       [ ~Central Pn   -  
/        _  ~~(incl. Funds)|                     -
Rank of'-Brazil        ,f      ,       \              National Economic
r----___  (incl. Funds)  __   g ,    _    RX  ,-   Development Bernk
Other Federal   ,          (incl. Funds)
< , , ~~Funds t\  
Publ-c Financial                                    Private Financial
Institutions                                         Institutions
Federal Regional Banks                                   Commercial Banks
State-owned legional Banks                                      Financieras
State Oomwercial Banks                                    Investment Panks-
State Development Banks                              Savings and Loan Associations
Sectoral Federal Banks                              Capital Market Institutions
Saving and loan Associations                               Insurance Conpanies
(Federal and State)                                    Credit Cooperatives
Other Financial Institutions                              Mutual Investment Funds
of the "Mixed Economy"                                  Tax Incentive Funds
Public and
-   Private Eonom_                                   _
Regulatorv relations
_----_--------  Financial relations
..................  Advisorv relations
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Participating Banks: Main Balance Sheet Data
Cr$ million
Ca ital and Reserves /1             Loans                   Developrent Credits
Annual   En1 of  Beginning   Annual
Symbol  F_ull Name             12/31/73  12/31/74  Average    Year   of Year    Average  Industry  Agriculture   Total
Pi       Banco do Brasil S.A.   7,131      11,918    9,524   80,266  44,281       62,273   20,322/L    35,161L2   55,483 /2
PRDE     Banco '?egicnal de        20P        305       257    2,636   1,495       2,065       711         297       1,008
Desenvolvimento do
Extreno Sul
PADEP    Banco de Desenvolvi-      loQf       245       221    1,092      703        898       NA          NA          961
mento do Parana S.A.
BADESP   Banco de Desenvolvi-      242        332       287    1,379      705      1,042      816          132         948
mento do Estado de
Sao Paulo S.A.
PDYG     Banco de Desenvolvi-      225        429       327    1,832     NA        1,460'    823           402       2,225
mento de Minas Gerais
FA!TDES   Panco de Desenvolvi-      27         56        42      2P9      317        303       22-7          6         233
rnento do Espirito
Santo S.A.
PESC     Banco do Estado de        107        123       115      544     541         543
Santa Catarina S.A.
/1 Estimate.
12 Intermediate and long-term loans to private sector.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDWSTBJES CREDIT PROJECT
Participating Banks: Nominal Profitability and Ratios
Cr$ million                                                                         ftrcenca
Interest &                                                              Profit       Interest +    Financial   Administrative   Profit &                  Profit &
Comisssions Other    Total    Financial    Administrative   Total         and        Commsissions     Costs          Costs         Allowances            Allowantces
Symbol    Full Name                 Received   Income   Income       Costs           Costs         Costs  Allowances   Average  xlan Averae Loas   AveraRc Loan    Average Loan   Average Capital Reserves
BB       Banco do Brasil S.A.         8,323    4,047    12,370         971           4,711       -6,235     6,135           13.4          1.6            7.6              9.9                   64.4
BRDE     Sanco Regional de                                           t
Desenvolvimento do
Extte,so Sul                   551       23        574        457              43         500         74           26.7         22.1            2.1              3.6                   28.8
BADEP    Banco de Desenvolvt-
mento do Parana S.A.           153       14        167       I11               21         132         35      , 17.0            12.4            2.3              3.9                   15.8
BADESP   Banco de Desenvolvi-
mento do Estado do
Sao PAulo S.A.                 322       39        362        231             37          268         94           30.9         22.2            3.6              9.0                  32.8
IIDWG    Bunco de Desenvolvi-                                -
mento de Rinas Gerais           70        19       110        t1               33          44         66            4.8          0.7            2.3              4.5                   20.2
BDES   Banco de Desaenvolvi-
wento do Eapirito
-  fSato S.A.                      53        31         84        45              11           69         15          17.5         14.9            3.6               5.0                  35. 7
BESC     Banco do Estado de
Santa Catarina S.A.             99       66        165         30              92          130        35           18.2          5 5           16.9              6.4                   30.4



ANNEX 2
Table 3
B,AiZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
BADESP: Estimated Profitability of Loan Portfolio --
Industrial and other Loans Compared to _aral Loans /1
(Cr$ million except where indicated)
Industrial
Rural          and Othe-s         Total
Total loans                                579               2,070          2,649
(External resources                473               1,648           2,121
Of this
Own                              106                 422             528
Return of own resources
before administrative costs/2,%         -13.39                 2.C6           -1.o04
Contrihution to administrative
costs                                    -1)4.2               +8.7            -5.5
Administrative costs /3                      3.37               11.99           13.37
Profit/loss                                -17.57               -3.29          -20.86
/1  Data pertain to May 1975 estimates on yearly base (1975).
T2 Assiing ORTN index -- representing rate of inflation in Brazil -- to increase
'   by 25% during 1975 and opportunity cost of own funds, 5%.
13 Based on 197)4 costs increased for assumed 25% inflation average 197)4 to average
1975. Allocation between industrial and rural portfolio according to volume
of operations.
July 1975



ANMEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Subloans under the First Project
(ooo us$)
I.  Approved by end April 1976
No.          Name                                         Bank      Category       Amount
1.  PARPLAN - Industria de Carnes e Derivados S.A.        BADEP   Beef Processing  6,000
2. COMABRA Cia. de Alimentos do Brasil                   BADEP   Miscellaneous    1,958
3.  Frigorffico Argus S.A.                                BADEP   Beef Processing    882
4. Frigorlfico Umuarama S.A.                              BADEP   Beef Processing    918
5. Frigorffico Uniao S.A.                                 BADESP  Beef Processing  2,000
6. Frigorifico Uniao S.A.                                 BADESP  Beef Processing    680
7. Cacique de Vegetais Industrializados S.A.              BADESP  Miscellaneous       526
8. Duratex S.A. Industria e Com6rcio                      BADESP  Miscellaneous    3,260
9.  Sociedade Avicola Itatiba Ltda.                       BADESP  Miscellaneous       684
10.  SCARBORD-Couros Finos S.A.                            BADESP Miscellaneous    4,182
11.  SUN EGG-Produtos Agroindustriais e Alimenticios       BADESP Miscellaneous        720
S.A.
12.  FRIGOBRAS-Cia. Brasileira de Frigorificos             BADESP  Beef Processing    877
13.  Avicultura Integrada Brasiliense Ltda.                BADESP Miscellaneous        230
14.  Sucocitrico Cutrale S.A.                              BADESP Miscellaneous    2,264
15.  Laticinios Poqos de Caldas S.A.                       BADESP Dairy                614
16.  Laticinios Mococa S.A.                                BADESP Dairy                375
17.  Frigorifico Aves de Lindoia Ltda.                     BADESP Miscellaneous        454
18. Avicola Vit6ria S.A.                                   BADESP Miscellaneous        390
19.  Domingo Buzasco and Cia. Ltda.                        BADESP  Beef Processing  2,770
20.  Frigorffico Bordon S.A.                               BADESP  Beef Processing  1,154
21. Hata and Cia. Ltda.                                    BADESP  Miscellaneous       887
22.  Industria Brasileira de Alimentos Soliiveis
I-BRASOL Ltda.                                       BADESP Miscellaneous    1,720
23.  Industrial e Comercial Brasileira S.A.
ENCOBRASA (Fase I)                                   BRDE    Edible Oil         1,820
24. Industrial e Comercial Brasileira S.A.
INCOBRASA (Fase II)                                  BEDE    Edible Oil         1,204
25.  Cooperativa Rural Alegretense Ltda.                   BRDE    Beef Processing  6,660
26. Frigorifico Rio-Pel S.A.                               BRDE    Beef Processing  5,000
27. Frigorpifico Santa Maria S.A.                          BRDE    Beef Processing    668
28. FRIVALE S.A. Frigorifico                               BRDE    Beef Processing    115
29. UPA LEITE-Usina de Pasteurizaqao e
Padronizaq&o de Leite                                 BRDE    Dairy               865
50. Rizzo S.A. Industria da Alimentaqao                    BRDE    Beef Processing  1,026
31. Cia.Riograndense de Laticinios e
Correlatos-CORLAC                                     BRDE    Dairy               876
32. Frigortifico Cemin Ltda.                               BB      Beef' Drocessing    538
33. R.Lunardi S A.-Eng. Ind. Com. e Agropecuaria           BB      Beef Processing    595
34. Frangosul S.A. Agro-Avicola Industrial                 BB      Miscellaneous       552
35. Frigorifico 4 Rios S.A.                                BB      Beef Processing  1,082
,6.  Irmaos Nogueira, Induistria de Carnes e Derivados                               3,638
Ltda.
37. FRIGOATLAS-FrigorIfico Atlas Ltda.                     BDMG    Beef Processing  2,832
38. FRINASA-Frigorifico Nanuque Ltda.                      BDMG    Beet  Processing  6,165
TOTAL APPROVED                                                                 67,181



ANNEX 3
Page 2
II. In Pipeline by end April 1976                            Bank       Category     Amount
1.  Frigorffico Mataboi S.A.                             BMDG    Beef Processing  3,321
2. Frigorifico Perrela Ltda.                             EDMG    Beef Processing    874
3. Da Granja                                             BADEP   Miscellaneous    1,135
4. Frigorftico Capotuna Ltda.                            BADESP  Beef Processing    228
5. Frigorftico Prudentino S.A.                           BADESP Beef Processing  2,522
6. Frigorftico Baggio Ltda.                              EADESP  Beef Processing  1,439
7.  CIOVE-Industrial de bleos Vegetais Ltda.             BADESP  Edible Oil        1,118
8.  Frigorftico Barro S.A.                              BADESP  Beef Processing    433
9.  Giamar S.A.-Agric. Ind. e Com.                       BADESP  Miscellaneous    1,073
10.  Frigorifico Jandira S.A.                             BADESP  Beef Processing    649
11.  Frigorifico Itapevi S.A.                             BADESP  Beef Processing  1,244
12. Perdigao S.A. Com. E Ind. Frig. de Aves               BRDE    Miscellaneous    3,245
e Suinos
13. Industrias de Carnes e Derivados Ltda.                BDMG    Beef Processing  3,029
14. Frigorifico Caiap6 S.A.                               BDMG    Beef Processing    757
15. Embare Ind-6stria Alimenticias S.A.                   BDMG    Dairy             1,082
16. FRIGONOSSA-Frigorfifico N.S. da Sadde Ltda.           BDMG    Beef Processing  1,839
17. Frigorifico Tamoio S.A.                               BDMG    Beef Processing  1,839
18. Piaui Produtos Alimentfcios Ltda.                     BADEP   Miscellaneous       715
19.  Santos e Silva Ltda.                                 BRDE    Beef Processing    454
20.  Frigorffico T. Jatai S.A.                            BB      Beef Processing  5,192
21.  FRIGUA-Prigorifico Guards Ltda.                      BB      Beef Processing  1,362
22. Cooperativa Agricola Soledade Ltda.                   BB      Beef Processing    519
23. Oleos Vegetais Marau S.A.                             BB      Edible Oil          262
24.  Frigorftico Cantarrosense S.A.                       BB      Beef Processing  1,298
25.  Copira Agro-Inddstria S.A.                           BB      Miscellaneous    1,191
26.  J.Muniz S.A.                                         BANDES  Beef Processing    270
27.  FRINCASA-Frigorifico Industrial Capixaba S.A.        BANDES  Beef Processing  1,947
28.  FRISA-Frigorifico Rio Doce S.A.                      BAIZES  Beef Processing  4,327
29. Frigorifico Paloma                                                                216
30. Usina da Barra S.A.                                   BADESP  Sugar            12,405
31.  FRUTESP                                              BADESP Miscellaneous    4,327
32. FRIGOVALPA-Com. e Ind. de Carnes Ltda.                BADESP  Beef Processing  2,012
33. Frigorifico Itajuba                                   BDMG    Beef Processing
34.  Industria de Carnes e Derivados Ltda. Uberaba-MG    BDMG    Beef Processing    703
35. Frigorifico Alvorada                                  BADEP  Miscellaneous        605
36. Rubi-Exportaq&o e Importaq&o de Cereais Ltda.         BADEP   Miscellaneous       227
37. Cooperativa de Carnes de Ponta Grossa                 BADEP   Beef Processing    605
38. Comabra Hens-Agropecuaria Industrial S.A.             BADEP  Miscellaneous    2,671
39. Avisco-Avicultura Ccm. e Ind. S.A.                    BADEP   Miscellaneous    5,408
40. Cooperativa de Laticinios de Londrina                 BADEP   Dairy               541
41. Cia. Estadual de Silos e Armaz6ns                     BRDE    Miscellaneous    7,572
42. Sodisol S.A. Ind. e Com. de bleos e Vegetais          BRDE    Edible Oil        2,555
43. FRICASA-Frigorifico Canoinhas S.A.                    BRDE    Beef Processing    649
44. Jolly S.A. Indidstria e Integraqco Agropecuaria       BB      Miscellaneous       853
45. Chocolates Garoto S.A.                                BANDES  Miscellaneous       541
TOTAL IN PIPELINE                                                             87,698



ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Meat Processing
1.         Beef processing for the export market was the principal sub-
sector in Agro-industries Credit Project I, with emphasis on expansion and
modernization of slaughterhouses to bring its beef industry up to interna-
tional standards. However, a lagging export market during 1974, and early
1975, has increased the importance of beef processing for the domestic
market, while at the same time official steps to raise the price of beef
in Brazil gradually to bring it closer to the international price have
opened possibilities for building up a good market for alternative sources
of meat, particularly pork and chicken.
2.         The expanding activities of the Departmento Nacional de Inspecao
de Produtos de Origem Animal (DIPOA), which supervises and controls the
processing of animal products, including beef, pork, poultry, eggs , and
other meats, such as mutton, rabbit, horsemeat and goatmeat, have resulted
in considerable pressures being placed on industrial establishments to bring
their operations up to the standards set by the agency. The seriousness of
the effort to improve is reflected in the fact that in the State of Rio de
Janeiro alone, 36 slaughterhouses were expected to be closed down in July
1975 for not measuring up to minimal standards. Pork and poultry processing
industries mostly seem to meet requirements, possibly because they are fairly
new.  These meats not only provide an economical alternative to beef, but their
use will help free beef products for the export market when it opens up again,
particularly in Europe.
3.         Expansion of the pork and poultry processing industries is closely
related to expansion of the feed industry (Appendix 3-2) and, of course, to
growth of the oilseed processing industry (Appendix 3-1). Pork and poultry
constitute not only an alternative source of meat, but a logical market for
the expected increase in oilseed meal production, particularly soybean meal.
4.         In order to best deal with the major meat processing industries,
this annex has been subdivided into three appendices - beef processing,
Appendix 2-1; pork processing, Appendix 2-2; and poultry processing industry,
Appendix 2-3.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
A. Production
1.         Brazil's total cattle herd was estimated at 82,463,300 head in 1973
(Table 1) according to IBGE and the Banco Central, and of these, 66,218,000,
or 80%, were in the project area. The Instituto de Planejamento Social e
Economico (IPEA) estimates that the percentual distribution by type of herd
is as follows:
Milk      Beef       Mixed
Brazil                    14.9      49.6       35.5
Southeast                 17.0      39.2       43.8
South                     18.0      67.6       14.4
Center-West                8.9      49.5       41.6
2.         In 1972, a total of 12,160,000 head were slaughtered in the project
area, also representing 80% of the total slaughter in Brazil.  Estimates made
by the Banco Central indicate a cumulative growth rate of 5.1% for the national
herd since 1970, and, although productivity rates vary from one region to
another, they were similar in 1970 among the three regions comprising the
project area (16.8% for the Southeast; 16.2% for the Center-West, and 15.8%
for the South). The supply of cattle for slaughter is expected to increase
only moderately because of increased retention of cattle of reproductive age.
The expected annual slaughter rates are 13.3% for 1975, 13.6% for 1980, and
13.8% for 1985.
3.         A livestock development program, similar to the CONDEPE program,
which includes 3.5% of the cattle population, should reach an approximate
35% of the Brazilian herd by 1980. The goals of this program include tripling
the annual supporting capacity of natural pastures and improvement of other
areas; increasing the rate of weaning from 50 to 70%; reducing the mortality
rate from 5 to 2%, and, lowering the slaughter age in males from 4.2 to three
years. These measures are intended to help alleviate the problems facing
the cattle industry, caused mainly by a rate of herd productivity that is too
low to keep pace with population increases.
4.         Efficiency of production has had significant increase only in Rio
Grande do Sul where land is limited. In that state, average slaughter age
has been lowered to three years instead of the current average 4.5 years
elsewhere. Carcass yields surpass 50% compared to 40 to 45% in other states.
Depletion of natural pastures and lack of adequate crossbreeding are among



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 2
the major causes of low productivity. Earlier first calving than the current
average four years is still the exception. Increased investments will be
necessary to improve pastures, provide supplementary feed during the dry
season, increase inoculations and the like if productivity is to be increased.
This investment, however, would result in higher beef prices and eventually in
lower domestic consumption, unless productivity gains were sufficient to com-
pensate for the new investment.
5.         A recent National Cattle Plan, devised to help the industry increase
productivity sufficiently to maintain a 12% slaughter rate, recommends meas-
ures such as providing credits for Cr$ 1 billion annually for pasture creation
and improvement, gradully freeing cattle and meat prices from controls, es-
tablishing a 150,000-ton "regulatory" stock managed by the Companhia Brasileria
de Alimentos (COBAL), exempting interstate transactions, and Government com-
mitting itself to buy if producer prices fall below the established range.
B. The Industry
Structure
6.         The beef processing industry in the project area can be charac-
terized as a nationally guided operation composed mainly of single plants
owned by individuals or corporations. Cooperatives are important only in
Rio Grande do Sul, where they own 14 of the 41 operating plants, represent-
ing 41% of the total daily killing capacity of the state. Only four com-
panies operate in more than one state, and two were international firms
that have now been sold to local interests. Frigorifico Anglo is the major
international company still in business. It has a plant in Sao Paulo and
another in Rio Grande do Sul. The total daily capacity of both is 1,680
head per day, so they are not significant factors in Brazilian meat production.
7.         The trend is toward installing larger integrated plants to supply
both the domestic and foreign markets. These plants are designed to indus-
trialize most of the available by-products that cannot be utilized by the
smaller units because of their limited volume. Of the 185 plants now oper-
ating or projected in the study area, 29 have a capacity of between 700 and
1,000 head per day, 43 between 400 and 700 head per day, 48 between 200 and
400 head per day, and 65 under 200 head per day. In the latter group, 35
kill less than 100 head per day. These smaller plants will either have to
expand their operations or go out of business due to competitition from the
larger more efficient units. An important factor in the movement towards
larger plants has been the sanitary standards established by the Departmento
de Inspecao de Productos de Origem Animal (DIPOA), wihich though not discri-
minatory, will eliminate many of the smaller "matadouros" that cannot mo-
dernize their facilities to meet these regulations.
8.         Rio Grande do Sul has the greatest concentration of plants, with
41 operating units, though their theoretical daily killing capacity is only



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 3
11,835 head per day. Sao Paulo has 36 plants in operation, with a daily
capacity of 18,820 head, followed by Minas Gerais with 24 units, Parana with
23, and Mato Grosso, Rio de Janeiro and Santa Catarina, each with 14. Sao
Paulo, with the second largest number of plants, produces 63% of the cattle
it slaughters and receives the balance of its requirements from Mato Grosso
(20%), Goias (8%), Parana (6%), and Minas Gerais (3%). Goias, Mato Grosso,
and Rio Grande do Sul produce 100% of their requirements; Parana 90%; Rio
de Janeiro 73%; and Minas Gerais 66% but imports 26% from Goias, 3% from
Bahia and 2% from Sao Paulo. Espirito Santo produces only 41% of its re-
quirements and purchases the rest from Minas Gerais (45%) and Bahia (14%).
Regulations
9.         The Brazilian standards now being used by the meat industry con-
form to those in effect in Western Europe and the United States. DIPOA is
responsible for establishing and enforcing these regulations and exchanges
information with agencies in many foreign countries to maintain standards
at current international technological levels.
10.        The regulations published by DIPOA cover both the construction of
meat processing plants and inspection procedures for meat products as they
flow through the plant. In the future, all meat plants will have to be
certified, which will insure that meat for domestic consumption will be
prepared under sanitary conditions and be fit for human consumption.
Plant Operations
11.        New and established meat processing plants certified by DIPOA are
satisfactory from a technical viewpoint. In most instances, the material
flow conforms to modern standards and operating methods. The cattle are re-
ceived, weighed and inspected by veterinarians prior to entering the holding
pens. Any suspect animals are separated for further inspection. Diseased
animals are killed in a separate building and cremated, though some of the
parts that are not condemned can be used for tankage. The killing and car-
cass handling is done in the usual manner, with veterinary inspections at all
critical stages of production. Any suspect carcasses or parts are placed in
a separate room for further inspection, which makes it impossible for these
items to return to the production line unless approved by the veterinarian.
The carcasses are chilled and then prepared for domestic sale or the export
market. Many plants are considering expanding their boned beef operations for
both markets. Edible offal is prepared in individual rooms, then packaged and
kept chilled or frozen. Inedible offal is used for tallow, blood meal, bone
meal, and pumped to a separate building for processing. Hides, horns, hooves
and hair are all used in the larger plants, which compare favorably with
operations in the developed countries.
12.        Most plants in Brazil are still being constructed on a multi-
stories basis that allows parts to flow by gravity chutes from the killing
area to lower floors for processing. Multi-storied structures cost more
than single storied bui ldings, in which sanitary conveyors can replace chutes.
In any case, chutes are much more difficult to maintain in hygenic condition
than conveyors.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 4
13.        New plants seem to be located more and more in the raw material
supply sections of the country rather than in the finished product marketing
areas. This should improve the quality and weight of the cattle as well as
the profit margins in production and sales since it should be cheaper to ship
carcasses or boned beef than live animals.
14.        In analyzing feasibility studies, special attention should be givdm
to the number in days of kill per year, which varies in each state. Based on
a report prepared by the Banco Central (BC) in 1973, the longest average
annual kill in Brazil occurred in Espirito Santo with 250 days, followed by
Mato Grosso with 234 days, Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo with 208 days, Parana
with 195 days, and Santa Catarina with 160 days. Rio Grande do Sul did not
indicate the days involved but their main season runs from March to August,
with the peak period being March to June.
15.        Another point to consider is the kill ratio of steers to cows.
Many projects plan on killing only steers, which give them a better yield
ratio, but this practice will soon increase the cow population in Brazil.
Dressed weight of carcasses also vary by state and time of year of slaughter.
Consequently, it may be worthwhile to develop some average figures for each
state that could be used as standards for the different projects.
16.        Obtaining management for the new and larger plants may become a
critical matter because the supply of experienced operating personnel is
limited in Brazil. More sophisticated management is needed in these new
plants than in smaller matadouros, especially when handling by-products,
cooked frozen beef, and boned beef for export, where sanitation and quality
controls are important.
Inspection Program
17.        DIPOA is responsible for the inspection program in all certified
plants. At present it has a staff of between 500 and 600 trained veterinar-
ians and has planned a recruiting program that this year is expected to add
125 to 200 more. The new personnel will receive four-month training conducted
at a practical level in operating frigorificos, then assigned to their per-
manent jobs. Their training, however, may not be up to past standards and
will require more in-plant training to insure a supply of competent personnel.
18.        Each plant that is certified, depending on its size, has one or
two veterinarians assigned to its staff, who are responsible for inspection
and sanitation. Trained technicians do the actual inspection on the killing
floor and any abnormalities are referred to the veterinarians for further
inspection.
19.        Before the start of the day's operation, the veterinarian must
inspect the facilities to insure that they are in sanitary condition, check
all equipment that will be used in handling meat, both for cleanliness and
operation, verify that the work shift is in clean uniforms, that the people
are healthy, and do not have cuts or injuries that can affect the material
to be processed.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 5
20.        A staff of eight to 12 technicians inspects the meat that is being
processed. The usual inspections are provided for, that is, head and tongue,
intestinal tract, liver, lungs and heart, kidneys, forequarter and hindquarter.
The veterinarians inspect any abnormalities in addition to checking on the
condition of animals to be slaughtered and making an autopsy of any animals
that have died or are suspect of diseases.
21.        Upon completion of the day's kill, the veterinarian is also respon-
sible for the cleanup and sanitation of all facilities, including the live
animal holding pens.
Equipment
22.        Most of the equipment used in meat packing plants is available in
Brazil. The quality of conveyors, tables, inspection lines, chutes, rendering
equipment, boilers, refrigeration machinery, and tanks seem to be acceptable.
The welds on stainless steel, which is all imported, is not up to normal
sanitary standards, and, though they are not as critical in equipment for the
meat industry as in others they could be improved. Some items that are highly
specialized must be imported such as hide pullers, automatic meat saws, some
refrigerator doors, paunch cleaning machines, casing cleaning and processing
equipment, place freezers, blood drying, vacuum packaging, and similar items
that are fairly sophisticated and for which the demand is so limited that
local manufacture is not warranted.
23.        Many of the large international companies either have offices or
representatives in Brazil. Consequently, they can furnish quotations on their
specialized machinery. The smaller foreign companies that are not represented
in Brazil are known by the industry through advertising in national trade
magazines and the individual entrepreneurs can request their quotations for
equipment when preparing a project.
C. Marketing
Domestic Market
24.        Beef production has been rising at a rate of 7.6% per annum and, in
1974, reached a level of 2.2 million tons, compared with 1.7 million tons in
1970. Consumption of beef is growing at 9% per year and, in 1974, totalled
2.1 million tons, compared with 1.5 million tons in 1970. Per capita con-
sumption in 1974 was about 20 kg, as compared with 16.9 kg in 1970, indicating
a growth rate of 4.6% (Table 2).
25.        Since mid-1974, availabilities of beef for local consumption have
been abundant due to the temporary closing off l>- the major EEC markets, which,
in fact, caused a backing up of beef supplies in local storage facilities.
The situation was compounded by imports of 52,000 tons of beef in 1974 from



ANNEX 4
Appen.iix 4-1
Page 6
Argentina and Uruguay under the "regulatory stocks" policy and for whose pur-
chase contracts had been signed before the EEC ban on beef imports went into
effect. The stocks of beef acted as a depressant on the domestic beef market,
but imports eventually were largely absorbed by processors and reexported in
various product forms.
26.        Purchases of 150,000 tons of domestic beef during the first semester
of 1975 under the regulatory stocks policy served as an important market
support measure, enabling the frigorificos to operate profitably and alleviat-
ing pressure on producer prices which reportedly had fallen to Cr$ 2.00 per
kg for fat cattle.
27.        Under the regulatory stocks policy, as it pertains to beef, the
Comissao Interministerial de Precos (CIP) 1/ determines consumer price policy.
Then, on the basis of estimates of domestic availabilities, consumption re-
quirements and export demand, the indicated shortfall in domestic beef sup-
plies is computed. Import policy is determined and COBAL 2/, the commercial
arm of the Ministry of Agriculture, that is authorized to arrange for imports 3/
of the quantity deemed necessary to stabilize beef prices at the predetermined
levels.
28.        Imports of frozen and chilled beef from Argentina and Uruguay are
expected to be negligible in 1975, so that during the low slaughter season
in the second semester, the large stocks should be absorbed, and the industry
should enter 1976 in approximate equilibrium. Although imports are not ex-
pected to be important in 1975, that trade could again expand in 1976 to the
1974 level. The important determinant will be the course of export trade in
the coming years. In the event that the beef export market in Europe opens
up, a larger shortfall will result, necessitating a greater volume of com-
pensating imports. In respect of beef imports, the history of that trade
merits mention. In the 1970-73 period, imports of fresh, chilled, frozen,
and dried beef, primarily from Argentina and Uruguay averaged 2,300 tons per
year. Virtually all of the 52,000 tons imported in 1974 came from those two
countries. With world beef market expected to return to normal around 1977,
long term import prospects from Argentina and Uruguay are important. How-
ever, since those countries export high quality cuts to the European and U.S.
markets while Brazil imports lesser quality cuts, there does not seem to be
reason for concern.
29.        The rural market, estimated to make up about 40% of the total beef
market in Brazil, is currently supplied mainly by small, non-inspected plants
and almost all beef is sold to the retailer, mainly as bone-in fresh sides or
1/    The agency which is responsible for price policy at all levels of
industry and trade.
2/    The agency that purchases and sells commodities in conjunction with
implementation of producer and consumer price policies.
3/    Mainly from Argentina and Uruguay.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 7
quarters, unprocessed, except for basic cleaning. The utilization of beef and
edible offal is quite high, but losses nevertheless occur because no further
processing is done; inedible by-products are usually not utilized. Unreported
slaughter supplements the small plant-local butcher supply system.
30.        In the urban market, significant changes are occurring in the dis-
tribution system. The supermarket chains are expanding steadily, both in
terms of area coverage, number of units, and size of units. In Rio, about
60% of the retail grocery trade now is handled by supermarkets. In Sao Paulo,
that ratio is about 40%. Merchandising of beef products has greatly improved
in these outlets, which also enjoy a strong purchasing position that allows
them to gain economies in direct buying in large volume from processors that
hopefully can be passed on to the consumer.
31.        The beef product mix is bound to be affected by modern merchandis-
ing methods, improved personal incomes and changing tastes. There is limited
but widening acceptance of frozen beef, mainly because of better handling
and presentation of the product and broader consumer education and knowledge.
Processed beef products such as sausages and vacuum-packed, cooked frozen and
canned beef products are also gaining acceptance in the large urban centers.
Witness to the change in taste are the considerable numbers of relatively
small specialized meat products plants that have sprung up during the last
decade near the larger consumption centers. The large slaughterhouses in or
near the major cities also manufacture and market these products. For the
present, the development of ready meats, frozen TV dinners, and boil-in-bag
are in the test market stage, but some of the large slaughterhouses may go
into regular production of limited quantities of such items in the near
future. A large segment of the urban market, however, is still dominated
by consumer preference for non-frozen fresh meat.
32.        Frigorificos presently under the DIPOA inspection and regulatory
system number 185 units: 113 of these have cold storage capacity of 300 to
399 m3 or less and 72 have capacity of 400 to 499 m3 or more. The latter
group has a total of 147,000 tons of cold storage capability and 24,000 tons
of chilling capacity, for a total of 171,000 tons. In the first semester of
1975, 70 frigorificos were selcted on the basis of DIPOA standards to process
and hold the 150,000 tons of beef bought up by COBAL under the "regulatory
stocks" policy to supplement supplies to the domestic market during the low
season (para 26). Since those enterprises need cold storage facilities for
their usual operations, facilities of the Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento
(CIBRAZEM) 1/ as well as other private storage space was contracted.
33.        The need for cold storage capacity as well as processing plants
is clear.  On the basis of the foregoing calculations--allowing for average
turn-over of five times per year--1.1 million tons to 1.2 million tons could
be put through the industry's facilities. Production in 1980 is forecast at
1/    The government warehousing company.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 8
2.9 million tons, so that the above volumes represent 37 to 41% of that year's
output. Considering the lead time required for site selection, design, req-
uisition of materials and equipment, construction, training, and breaking in
new plant, there is clearly a degree of urgency in this situation.
34.        Transport.  By far the largest proportion of beef is transported
by truck. Trucking is usually for the account of the buyer, so that producer
prices as reported are f.o.b. ranch. For haulage of processed beef, the
refrigerated truck fleet in the country is described as adequate for the
industry. Many of the trucks, of course, are multi-purpose and are utilized
to move an increasingly complex variety of refrigerated consumer items in
addition to meat products.
35.        Compared to other regions of Brazil, the Center-South has a rela-
tively well developed transport system. The rate of expansion and improvement
of major highways has been very rapid in recent years, and the program is
being continued under a master plan, partially assisted by the Bank. The
rural road system is receiving increased attention: a program to develop
10,000 km of roads began two years ago. The railroad system, important to
beef transport in Sao Paulo state particularly, is also receiving increased
attention. In the aftermath of the petroleum crisis, emphasis has shifted
from highway development to the railroads. However, over the medium term,
most inland transport will continue to be by refrigerated truck except in
localized rural markets where unrefrigerated meat is transported by regular
trucks.
36.        Comparative Income Elasticity and Per Capita Meat Consumption.
The income elasticity of demand for beef in most countries is generally high
compared with demand for substitutes; also, it tends to increase with the
rise in incomes until consumption per head reaches the levels recorded in
developed countries. The cross-price elasticity with non-meat substitutes,
on the other hand, tends to be low at low income levels. For the world as
a whole, the income elasticity averages 0.38, while the price elasticity of
demand in major importing countries is estimated at -1.25. For Brazil in
its present stage of development, it can be assumed that rising incomes will
likely be reflected in relatively greater gains in beef consumption than in
other meats, unless price policy is manipulated to favor consumption of other
high protein foods.
Export Market
37.        Despite the fact that considerable attention has been directed to
exports, only a small proportion of output actually leaves the country. In
1970/71 exports accounted for about 8.4% of production. At the peak of
193,000 tons in 1972, fresh beef exports took 9.1% of total output. Processed
beef production is export-oriented and 70% or more is shipped abroad, but that
product accounted for only about 2% of total beef availabilities and is based
on off-grade meat. Projections of the future beef balance in the country
indicate that, in the 1975-85 period, the exportable surplus will range from
2.4% to 7.5% of aggregate output.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 9
38.        The suspension of beef exports in 1973 and the cutoff of major
European markets in 1974 caused exports to diminish rapidly, reversing the
uptrend that had been in evidence since 1968. That trend in beef trade is
shown below:
Exports                Index
Year             (1,000 tons)           1968 = 100
1968                 59                   100
1969                 97                   164
1970                118                   200
1971                123                   208
1972                193                   327
1973                134                   227
1974                 45                    76
Source: CACES and IBGE.
The contraction in beef shipments was particularly severe in 1974 and the
year-to-year decline continues, amounting to 60%.
39.        Because the bulk of exports to the EEC consisted of frozen and
chilled beef, those categories experienced the sharpest contraction in ship-
ments. Canned, cooked and processed beef products held up better because
shipments to North America and other markets for those products were not
subject to arbitrary limitations. The proportions of beef product types in
the export trade are shown in Table 3. On balance, the likelihood does not
appear strong that current actions in restraint of beef support policy will
have a discentive effect that will set the stage for a down cycle in EEC
beef production by 1978/79.
40.        The export-oriented frigorificos are designed to meet exacting
foreign sanitary regulations. Shipments of chilled and frozen beef by those
enterprises now encompass a wide range of countries. The US and Canada are
the major markets closed to Brazilian fresh beef exporters because hoof-and-
mouth disease has not as yet been eradicated in Brazil. The North American
market does, however, absorb about 54% of the processed beef exports of
Brazil. Beef exports during the 1960 to 1974 period are shown in Table 4,
and their composition by country of destination is shown in Tables 5 to 8.
41.        Export sales in Brazil are handled through direct sales, via a
foreign agent, or via a Brazilian agent. The small exporting slaughter-
houses, which do not have strong international contacts, sell through agents.
There is no direct market promotion program for beef exports. However, a
number of groups operate as trade associations and work with the Government
on beef export policy. One of the trade committees is the Comite Brasileiro
de Exportadores de Carne (CBEC) which the Carteira do Comercio Exterior (CACEX)
convenes periodically to review the beef export situation. That group com-
prises representatives from all levels of the beef industry, but is dominated
by the processors.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 10
42.        Projections.  Frozen and chilled beef will continue to be pre-
dominant in the export trade, and boneless special cuts, frozen and chilled
will show the most growth. That development, dictated by import customer
preference, is logical from the standpoint of economy and efficiency,
eliminating transport and handling of waste and low-value residue. From
the export point of view, a higher value product with greater value added
content would be shipped. This trend would also be in line with Brazil's
policy to expand exports of high-grade beef and to supplement resulting
domestic market shortfalls with lower grade imports from Argentina and
Uruguay.
43.        Cooked frozen beef products, prepared according to individual
importer specifications -- fast frozen and wrapped in cryovac -- have a large
potential in the US market. Brazilian exporters in recent years have demon-
strated ability to deliver on schedule, and that is a prime factor in importers'
preference for Brazil over other countries as a dependable source of supply.
Cooked frozen beef is not a new product for Brazil; small quantities have been
produced since the 1960s and, in recent years, a peak volume of 10,000 tons
was exported.
44.        Most exports of frozen and chilled beef have been destined for
Europe and the closing off of that market resulted in a 66% decline in overall
beef exports in 1974. Import quotas were set in mid-1975 in line with EEC
policy to maintain its supply options abroad, even though stocks of beef are
excessive. Actually, the EEC is 100% self-sufficient since it has the inven-
tories to absorb, plus the current production. The 50,000-ton import quota
for all third countries during second half 1975 is small indeed, and Brazil's
share probably will be symbolic.
45.        The medium and longer term outlook is more favorable.  Heavy
slaughterings in 1974 in a difficult market situation, with costs soaring
arnd prices stable, generated the present inventory situation, because the
market could not absorb the abnormal supply. At the same time, the premature
slaughterings have set the stage for a down cycle in availabilities in 1976/77.
Substantial import demand should result in those years. Over the longer term,
domestic EEC cattle supplies are expected to return to the 92% level of com-
nmunity requirements, leaving ample margin for imports from LDCs.
46.        An additional imponderable is the longer term effect of current
milk price control policies. If a down cycle in dairy supplies should develop
in. the 1977-78 period, a shift in EEC price policies to favor dairy cattle
could result in less than anticipated beef production over the longer term,
thus enhancing export prospects of the LDCs.
47.        While EEC beef policy and US market prospects for processed beef
appear to provide ample scope for future beef exports, the principal con-
straints at this juncture apparently are:
(a) export availabilities from Argentina and Uruguay; and
(b) export availabilities from domestic production.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 11
In the first instance, current beef export policy considerations depend im-
plicitly, it would seem, on imports from Argentina and Uruguay to compensate
expected shortfalls in domestic beef supplies as a result of exports. Re-
liance on the external trade policies of other countries, particularly in
respect of a principal export commodity, would entail risks and uncertainties.
In fact, until 1974, beef import volume has been insignificant.
48.        Export forecasts made for balance of payments projections anticipate
chilled or frozen beef exports of 30,000 tons through 1980. Population growth
and rising incomes undoubtedly will generate greater demand, so that produc-
tion must expand at a rapid rate in order to achieve an exportable surplus.
Projections cited below indicate a more moderate surplus than the export
targets currently being discussed would imply. The range of demand projec-
tions is based on differing rates of income growth, taking the mid-points of
the demand estimates, 56,000 tons of exportable surpluses are indicated in
1975, and 214,000 tons in 1980.
'--------'000 tons ----------
1975               1980
Production                2,296                 2,862
Demand               1,967  -  2,054  2,533  -  2,764
Balance               +186  -   -242   +329  -    +98
49.        Controls.  Under normal market conditions there must be a restriction
on exports as long as the domestic price for beef is below the world market
price. Moreover, if supply and demand do not quite match at the price which
the Government considers acceptable, some form of price controls will be
needed. Thus, export quotas and price controls, together with a storage
requirement designed to counteract the seasonal fluctuation in supply, are
the main features of the Government's effort to ensure an adequate flow of
beef to the domestic market.
50.        The export quota systems for 1972 and 1973 are indicated in Table
9. For each of the years, the overall quota is divided into an untied quota,
a quota related to storage requirements, and a special quota reserved for new
processors.
51.        Furthermore, each beef processing firm must supply the domestic
market with a proportion of its slaughters which meets or exceeds established
standards (50% in Rio Grande do Sul and 60% in Central Brazil). Between 1972
and 1973, the overall quota was reduced from 180,000 tons to 144,500 tons
(actual exports in 1972 were about 174,000 tons).  The untied quota was
reduced from 55,000 tons to 35,000 tons; the quota related to storage require-
ments was reduced from 113,000 to 69,000 tons; and the quota for new proces-
sors was increased slightly, from 12,000 to 18,000 tons.  Storage requirements
were also increased--in 1972, in Rio Grande do Sul 1 ton of beef had to be
placed in storage for every 5 tons exported while in Central Brazil, it was
1 ton stored to 1.5 tons exported. In 1973 the ratio is 2:5 in Rio Grande
do Sul and 1:1 in Central Brazil.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 12
52.        At the time of the appraisal mission for the first project
(November/December 1972), the Government was planning to raise the overall
quota for 1973 to 203,000 tons, primarily by increasing the untied quota.
A brief interlude of freed consumer prices for beef at the beginning of this
year led to increases of about 40% over the previous agreed prices, however,
and the Government subsequently reduced the quota for 1973.
53.        Trade Barriers.  Under normal circumstances, Brazilian beef enter-
ing the EEC is treated as third country beef, and is therefore subject to a
basic 16% "ad valorem" duty as well as the sliding-scale duty. The US does
not employ tariffs to control meat imports, although countries that may supply
uncooked meats are subject to individual national quotas allocated on the
basis of historical performance. There is no limitation on imports of cooked
beef.
54.        Non-tariff barriers raise more serious obstacles to expansion of
trade. Import quotas, seasonal limitations, licensing, hygiene standards,
and control procedures and tariff classification methods complicate the mar-
keting problems of an international meat exporter, largely because of the
profusion of various national standards and applications of those standards.
However, Brazilian meat exporting companies do not feel that non-tariff
barriers are insurmountable, but rather that the situation has eased in
recent years and that adjustment to non-tariff barriers is a rather mechanical
process, to which they can adjust.
Prices
55.        In 1972 beef prices rose substantially as controls were relaxed.
Therefore, in 1973, the Government introduced a new package of agreed prices 1/
and taxes in response to the experience with freed prices. The price of steers
was set at about Cr$ 4.20/kg 2/ (down from an unregulated price of about
Cr$ 4.67/kg); the agreed wholesale prices for forequaters and hindquarters
were raised from Cr$ 3.30 and Cr$ 4.20 to Cr$ 3.50 and Cr$ 5.00, respectively;
the ICM (value added) tax on cattle and beef products was decreased from about
15% to 5%; and an export tax on beef products of US$200/ton was instituted.
56.        The net effect of all these changes was to lower slightly the
price to producers (the decrease in sales price was largely off-set by the
cut in the ICM), increase the margin to processors on domestic sales, decrease
the margin to processors on export sales, increase the (official) price to
consumers, and, of course, decrease exports between 1972 and 1973. Further-
more, the Government has indicated that the states will receive at least a
part of the proceeds from the export tax as partial compensation for the loss
of revenue from the decrease in the ICM (a state tax). While the export tax
1/    At the present time, prices on cattle and wholesale prices are main-
tained through informal agreements between the Government and proces-
sors. Retailers are generally permitted a margin of 40% to 50%.
2/    Carcass weight.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 13
thus may have been instituted to recover some of the tax revenues lost, the
reduction in exports appears to have been largely a symbolic gesture. Since
exports constitute less than 10% of total production, the reduction should
not have a major influence on the domestic price.
57.        Until domestic and world prices are the same, the Government will
be faced with the necessity of juggling a series of export controls and price
agreements in an attempt to meet domestic demand at the artificially low
price while avoding a negative effect on production. The Government has
assured the Bank that it will permit the domestic price of beef to rise,
although not precipitously, in real terms until it reaches the world market
price. At that level, it is likely that Brazil will be a major exporter,
without any controls.
58.        The rising price levels of the world market, which peaked in the
second quarter of 1974, caused a widening at the differential between the
domestic wholesale price levels which are regulated, and export prices. With
the sharp decline in the world market during 1974 and early 1975, and spread
again narrowed. With world market expected to recover by 1977, present pol-
icies in Brazil tend to improve the quality level of beef production through
strict enforcement of sanitary controls while simultaneously promoting ex-
pansion of other sources of meat, particularly pork and poultry, resulting
in higher production of high quality export cuts of beef and improved,
higher priced domestic products.
59.        In the period to 1980, the Government intends to allow the domestic
price to rise gradually to a level consistent with the corresponding FOB ex-
port price. This goal of allowing price to increase continuously is consistent
with the price pattern of the last several years. Real prices received by
producers in January 1973 were 60% higher than those in January 1970, an
average annual rise of about 17%. The upward trend in world beef prices is
expected to resume in 1976 and continue over the longer term. In order to
close the gap between domestic and FOB export prices for 1980, the domestic
price should rise substantially faster than FOB export price. The extent of
the required real rise would, of course, depend on the behaviour of the in-
ternational price of beef.
Beef Price Outlook to 1985
60.        The world price of beef 1/ is expected to be nearly double the 1974
level by 1980 - rising from US$3,460 per ton to US$6,580 per ton during that
period. At the latter price, beef will cost triple the 1970-72 average. By
1985, world beef prices are expected to be triple the 1974 level. It is
significant that the quotation that may be considered the reference price
for world trade on beef now is in terms of chilled boneless cuts. What is
a clear indication of the current trend in the beef export trade -- away from
bulk frozen bone-in quaters. In Table 10, a series of constant prices is
1/    Based on Argentine chilled rump boneless, wholesale, London.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Page 14
shown for the period to 1985. In real terms the projected prices cited above
will result in increases of 17.5% from the 1974 quotation by 1980, and 30% by
1985. The erosion of values due to anticipated inflation therefore will be
very steep.
61.        An illustrative projection could be made for Brazilian chilled and
frozen beef using as a basis average export prices for beef exports in 1974,
and assuming parallel price trends for all cuts of chilled and frozen beef.
The price differential between the series cited above the data set forth in
Table 4 demonstrate the obvious advantages of shifting the composition of
beef exports to chilled boneless special cuts as quickly as is practicable,
given the marketing situation and supply conditions.
Beef Processing in the Project Area
62.        Details about the estimated supply of cattle and slaughter facil-
ities and exports in the project area are given in Tables 10 to 13. Indica-
tive models of two slaughterhouses, one for 300 head per day supplying beef
mainly to the local market and the other for 600 head of cattle per day
designed mainly for export-beef are shown in Tables 14 and 15.



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Herds by States and by Regions
('000 head)
State and                                                           Growth                        Growth
Regions                 1950        %          1960        %       1950-60       1970       %    1960-70    1973
SOUTHEAST             17,765.2    37.9       20,839.8     37.3       24.3      26,783.9   34.1    28.5   28,202.4
Minas Gerais        9,790.1               11,693.9                          15,109.0                    15,913.4
Esp. Santo            464.5                  653.9                           1,382.6                     1,456.7
Rio de Janeiro        777.8                1,073.3                           1,187.1                     1,234.6
Guanabara              10.8                   17.7                              14.0                        14.6
Sao Paulo           5,722.0                7,131.0                           9,091.2                     9,583.2
SOUTH                 11,657.0    24.9       11,678.0     20.9        1.8      18,949.8   24.2    62.3   19,956.1
Parana                806.0                1,665.7                           4,687.9                     4,935.7
Sta. Catarina       1,004.0                1,202.0                           1,963.1                     2,063.3
Rio Grande do Sul  8,211.0                 8,810.3                          12,298.8                    12,958.0
CENTER WEST            6,816.1    14.5       10,532.8      18.9      54.5      17,231.1   22.0    63.6   18,059.4
Mato Grosso         3,442.6                5,653.6                           9,419.7                     9,874.4
Goias               3,373.5               4,862.8                            7,781.0                     8,153.1
Federal District       -                      16.4                              30.4                        31.9
BRAZIL                46,891.0   100.0       55,8413    100.0   1/91.1         74,451.8  100.0    40.5   82,463.2
Sources:  Sinopse do Censo Agropecuario - VIII Recenceamento Geral 1970.
Fundacao IBGE (1950-1960-1970).                                                                           m i 
Banco Central do Brasil - GECRI - Corredores de Exportacao (1973).                                           x 
July 1975



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Table 2
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Beef Production, Consumption and Exports
Beef         Beef                             Consumption
Year           Production   Consumption       Population    Per Capita       Exports
- - - ('000 tons) - - -   ('000 inhabitants)   (kg)         ('000 tons)
1970 /I          1,664          1,548            93,215         16.9            118
1971 /1          1,819          1,697            95,732         17.7             123
1972 11          2,124          1,960            98,316         19.6             193
1973 /1          2,050          1,916           100,971         19.0             134
1974             2,198          2,108           103,697         20.3              20 /2
1975             2,296          2,216           106,497         20.8              80 /3
1976             2,400          2,185           108,372         20.0             215
1977             2,509          2,250           112,325         20.0             259
1978             2,621          2,338           115,358         20.3             203
1979             2,739          2,447           118,473         20.6             292
1980             2,862          2,526           121,672         20.8             336
1981             2,990          2,630           124,957         21.0             360
1982             3,125          2,741           128,330         21.4            384
1983             3,265          2,857           131,750         21.7            408
1984             3,412          2,975           135,307         22.0             437
1985             3,585          3,100           138,960         22.3            465
/1 Observed data MA (SUPLAN), CONDEPE and CACEX Agreement).
/2 Preliminary figures subject to adjustment.
/3 Based on value of export quotas assigned by the Agreement.
July 1975



Appendix .L-1
Table 3
B.7AZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Composition of Beef Exports,1973-74 I/)
(000 tons)                  (Percent)
1974     1973              1974     1973
Frozen
Bone-in                          4..3    18.7               14.       26
Boneless                         4.o     16.3               13        22
Cooked                           62       7821                        11
Veal                                       0.2               -        /
Chilled
Special cuts                     -        0.2               -/2
poneless cuts                    2.7     10.5                9        14
Boneless (quarters)              0.2      1.2                1         2
Dried                              0.1       0.1              /2        /2
Subtotal fresh, dried           17.5      55.0              60        75
Canned                             9.4      12.5               32       17
Rrozen edible offal                2.3      5.4                          7
Meat Extract                       0.6       0.6                2        1
Total                           29.P      73.5             100       100
h Export data are for the state of Rio Grande do Sul.
/2 Less than 1%.
Source:  Instituto Sul Rio-Grandense de Carne.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
Beef Exports
(quantities in 1,000 tons; total values in US$'000; average prices is US$/ton)
Fresh. Chilled ard Frozen
Frozen Beef                       Chilled Beef                  Frozen and Chilled Veal                      Total
Year           Quantity      Total    Average       Quantity    Total    Average       Quantity    Total    Average       Quanity    Total    Average
Value     Price                    Value      Price                   Value      Price                   Value      Price
1960             5.89        3,153      534.95       0.10          50      500.00        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.          -          -          -
1961            14.40        7,041      488.99       0.10          41      418.37        0.23        120       512.82      14.73      7,202      488.93
1962            11.42        4,814      421.61        1.12        422      376.11        0.41         221      537.71       12.95     5,457      421.39
1963             9.95        4,297      431.86        2.22        846      381.25        0.41         201      489.05       12.58     5,344      424.80
1964            18.10       10,992      607.19       0.22         123      566.82        0.68         451      659.36      19.00     11,566      608.74
1965            29.78       20,239      679.57       0.86         703      822.22        5.19       3,410      657.29      35.83    24,352       679.65
1966            15.36        9,888      643.54        0.80        450      563.20        4.63       2,594      560.50       20.79    12,932      622.03
1967             6.40        3,772      589.56       0.30         187      619.21        4.88       2,764      566.63       11.58     6,723      580.57
1968            26.03       13,420      515.54        2.04      1,074      527.25       11.18       5,682      508.32      39.25    20,176       514.04
1969            50.69       28,098      554.35        6.73      3,584      532.38       20.15       9,966      494.69      77.57    41,648       536.91
1970            92.91       63,163      679.84       4.34       5,524    1,273.99        1.06         864      811.27      98.31     69,551      707.47
1971            90.50       95,711     1056.44       4.52       6,965    1,542.37                    /1                     95.01    102,676    1080.65
1972           144.75      156,574     1081.68        7.25      12,631    1,742.59                   71                    152.00    169,208    1113.22
1973            83.25      135,980     1633.33        4.78      12,547    2,626.45                   /1                     88.03   148,527     1687.23
i974/2          15.19       22,560     1485.44        3.99      7,152    1,794.02                    71                     19.17    29,712     1549.60
Processed Beef             Total-Fresh & Canned Beef & Veal    Dried. Smoked etc.. Beef & Veal   *Jeef Exports as %7 of Total
Production in Same Cateor  3
Year           Quantity      Total    Average       Quantity    Total     Average      Quantity     Total      Average
Value     Price                   Value       Price                   Value       Price          Fresh /4      Canned
1960             8.14        6,506      799.16              -               -             n.a.        n.a.      n.a.            0.55          69.80
1961            13.38       11,724      876.36       28.11     18,926      673.28        0.50         493       982.07          1.32          68.92
1962             8.94        6,898      771.67       21.89     12,355      564.42        1.76       1,980     1,112.45          1.15          61.66
1963             5.79        3,970      654.46       18.37      9,314      507.02        0.49         561     1,154.32          1.10          47.56
1964             7.40        5,388      728.11       26.40     16,954      642.20        0.22         252     1,140.27          1.58          49.61
1965            16.81       12,354      734.83       52.64    36,706       697.30        0.74         907     1,230.66          2.52          74.56
1966            10.51        8,062      767.15       31.30     20,994      670.73        1.70       2,116     1,241.06          1.33          73.57
1967             6.54        5,687      869.57       18.12     12,410      684.88        1.26       1,448     1,148.30          0.53          53.04
1968            14.54       12,627      868.73       53.79     32,803      609.83        5.08       6,499     1,279.58          2.00          69.53
1969            15.24       13,130      861.49       92.81    54,778       590.22        4.45       5,674     1,274.20          3.74          78.58
1970            16.06       15,439      961.31      114.37    84,990       743.12        0.48         686     1,432.21
1971            33.75       50,250    1,488.73      128.77    152,926    1,187.62        0.20         309     1,522.45
1972            35.40       49,634    1,966.91      187.40    238,841    1,274.49
1973            35.48       69,405    1,956.04      123.51    217,931    1,764.45
1974/2          34.34       79,991    2,329.72       53.51    109,703    2,050.18        0.01          29     2,079.14
/1 Included in frozen and chilled beef.
2 Jariuary - August.
/3 Ratio based on quantities.
7T  Includes frozen and chilled under exports and fresh and refrigerated under production.
Source: Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, Cacev 1970-74                                                                                              N
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Exports of Frozen Beef
Tons                                                    US$'000 f.o.b.                                           US$/ton
1970       1971        1972         1973        1974        1970        1971         1972         1973         1974     1970     1971    1972     1973      1974
Germany                         8,557.0    5,602.6    15,323.9       9,946.0    3,043.8      6,171.6    7,091.6     19,966.8      18,967.2     5,261.8    721.0  1,266.0 1,303.0  1,907.01  1,728.69
Belgium and Luxembourg          1,182.6    2,914.5      7,169.7     6,945.1       151.0       784.5    2,832.6       8,607.6     10,727.3        262.7   663.0   972.0 1,201.0  1,544.58  1,739.73
Spain                          27,615.5     8,328.7   30,500.0       7,795.5      469.6   14,577.3    6,472.6    28,140.8         19,679.4       564.1   528.0   777.0  923.0  2,524.45  1,201.23
United States                   3,658.4    9,382.1      3,580.6                              6,333.5   22,425.7       6,851.9                           1,731.0  2,390.0 1,914.0
France                          1,570.3     2,751.8     1,887.7      1,628.3       123.8    1,425.9    3,070.2        2,492.2      3,273.1       404.9   908.0  1,116.0 1,320.0  2,010.13  3,270.59
Greece                          3,652.9    3,746.0    5,759.0        5,928.1     1,111.7     2,422.3    3,115.0      5,246.6       8,152.0     1,327.7   863.0   832.0  911.0  1,375.14  1,194.29
Israel                          2,213.1   10,243.2    11,172.4       9,371.0     3,249.1       978.8    7,229.0      8,637.2      12,724.7     5,051.9   442.0   706.0  773.0  1,357.88  1,554.86
Italy                          19,487.8   22,461.0   27,794.0       21,845.7     2,167.1    12,573.2   19,999.8    28,252.6    33,215.6        3,169.0   645.0   890.0 1,016.0  1,520.46  1,462.32
Netherlands                    10,588.4    9,487.7    20,989.7       9,372.1     1,170.4    6,774.4    9,100.6    23,522.3    15,402.9         1,904.7    640.0  1,022.0 1,121.0  1,643.48  1,627.39
Portugal                          501.2    9,862.0      7,733.3      5,811.3     3,554.0       263.1    2,550.4      9,038.6       5,894.9     4,268.6   525.0   259.0 1,169.0  1,014.38  1,201.06
Switzerland                     3,173.4    3,655.7     4,305.7       2,573.8       146.9    3,007.2    8,783.4        6,818.7      4,563.9       344.6   948.0  2,403.0 1,584.0  1,773.21  2,345.81
Others Li                       1,424.6     1.348.4    5,350.8         225.0                  8Y7.7      1,480.4      5.226.0        523.7                630.0  1.098.0  977.0  2,328.00
Total                      92,908.5   90,497.1   144,750.2    83,252.8    15,187.4   63,162.6   97,710.7    156,573.5    135,979.7    22,560.0    670.0  1,058.0 1,082.0  1,633.00  1,485.00
/1 Chile, East Germany, Neth. Antilles, Philippines, Gibraltar, Lebanon, Norway, Sweden, Austria,
Afghanistan, Gambia, Hong Kong, Jordan, United Kingdom, Denmark.                                                                                                                            xl
Source:  CACEX.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Exports of Chilled Beef
Tons                                                  US$'000 f.o.b.                                                    US$/ton
1970        1971        1972       1973        1974       1970        1971        1972        1973         1974      1970        1971         1972        1973        1974
Italy                     1,317.6        582.7    1,001.9        36.1    1,059.2    1,060.2       549.4      1,096.7         92.6    1,532.00   804.64        942.85    1,094.62   2,572.22    1,446.37
Japan                                     30.0                                                     30.0                                                     1,000.00
France                                    57.7         1.1       15.1        56.0                   34.4         2.1         37.0       133.4                 596.18    1,909.09   2,450.33    2,382.14
Greece                       70.0         47.0                              195.8       51.1       32.7                                302.8    730.00        695.74                1,546.47       826.71
United Kingdom            3,840.7      3,676.3    5,824.9    3,461.9        616.5    5,118.0    6,069.2    10,836.7       9,277.5    1,799.3  1,332.56    1,650.89    1,860.40   2,679.88    2,918.57
Switzerland                  66.0        122.0       76.4        41.8      590.2        79.5       249.2       163.0        100.1      976.1  1,204.54    2,042.62    2,133.50   2,394.73    1,653.84
Germany                       1.1                   144.0       643.8      227.8          .8                   182.5      1,783.4      342.0    727.27                  1,267.36   2,770.11    1,501.31
Belgium & Luxembourg                                 96.0       324.5      168.4                               134.5        699.6      304.3                             1,401.04   2,155.93    1,807.00
Netherlands                 105.0                   140.1       254.0       155.6       78.8                   215.5        556.6       257.2    750.47                  1,538.18   2,191.33    1,652.95
Israel                                                                     592.2                                                      1,114.7                                                    1,882.30
Portugal                                                                   325.0                                                       390.4                                                     1.201.23
Total                  5,400.4      4,515.7    7,248.4    4,771.1    3,986.7    6,388.4    6,964.9    12,631.0    12,546.8    7,152.2  1,182.95    1,542.31    1,742.59   2,626.45    1,794.02
July 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                M



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Exports of Dried Beef Li
'000 kg                         US$'000 f.o.b.                            US$/kg
1970      1971       1974        1970        1971       1974           1970           1971         1974
Angola                5.0                                7.0                               1,400.00
United States       469.3       188.6                  673.3      294.3                    1,434.68      1,560.44
Paraguay              1.2        10.1       11.9         1.0        8.0        23.7          833.33        492.07      1,991.59
Portugal              3.2        4.0         2.0         4.3        6.3         5.2        1,343.75      1,575.00      2.600.00
Total            478.7       202.7       13.9       685.6      308.6        28.9        1,432.00       1,522.00     2,079.00
/1 Figures for 1972 and 1973 are not available.
Source: CACEX
July 1975                                                                                                                                     a.
0.> 



IRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJecT
Kaport. of oPr.a..ed 8Lf 
Too.                                           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S$,000 f.o.b.                                           us$/to..
RM.tinatioo                1970         1971          1972          1973          1974.    | 1970             1971          1972          1973          1974/          1970        1971          1972          1973           1974_
belgirm & Lo-b-ourg          i V,137.2                                248.7         260.8         113.3                       158.9         502.3         585.9         844.0                    1,158.0       2,020.0       2,247.0
Dnited St.tes            lo0,0z.J      19,618.5      16,686.0      17,786.7      16,075.5       9,925.0     30,433.1       25,092.9      38,914.1      40,346.8         982.0      1,551.0       1,504.0       2,188.0        2,510.0
Gh6.0                       500.3                       661.0         489.8         261.3         393.1                       822.3         906.2         506.4          786.0                   1,244.0        1.850.0       1,938.0
Jam tca                     391.7         423.6       3,119.9         542.0       2,672.5         351.1        494.1        3,826.0         704.8        5,196.9        896.0      1,166.0       1,226.0       1,300.0        1,945.0
Jorda.                       172.6        373.3         310.9          93.5          74.1         160.4        476.9          417.4         129.4         132.3          929.0     1,278.0       1.343.0       1,384.0        1,785.o
Leba-oO                      187.3        420.2         342.7                       495.1         149.2        408.0          345.0                       969.0          797.0       971.0       1,007.0                      1.957.0
Netherl-nds                 536.4       1,891.0       2,533.3       2,642.5       1,043.1         482.4      2,100.0        3,048.5       4,561.6        2,222.9        899.0      1,111.0       1,203.0       1,726.0       2,131.0
United Kingdom             1,052.4      4,453.6       4,196.5       8,613.6       8,175.5       1,782.2      6,392.2        6,196.2       15,501.7      18,624.7         962.0     1,435.0       1,477.0       Ia,O.O         2,278.0
Ger,oaay                                  203.2         793.2         522.2         199.7                     1,438.1         981.2         769.0         444.5                    7,077.0       1,237.0        1,473.0       2,223.0
Neth. Antilles                            117.8         226.8                       216.0                      145.4          274.8                       434.1                    1,234.0       1,212.0                      2.010.0
B.hamOs                                   210.1         324.6         110.2         237.1                      274.0          427.1         162.0         496.0                    1,304.0       1,316.0       1,470.0        2,092.0
Wbsradoo                                  193.2         164.3         144.0         253.0                      241.7          197.8         188.6         515.3                    1,251.0       1,204.0        1,310.0       2,037.0
C.a.da                     1,616.0      2,242.9       2,237.9       1,729.8       2,104.5      15,721.0      3,027.8        2,991.3       2,771.2        4,588.0         973.0     1,350.0       1,337.0        1,602.0       2,180.0
Japan                                     253.5         261.8         429.1         315.3                      333.1          338.0         690.6         691.0                    1,314.0       1,291.o        1,609.0       2,192.0
Pu.rto Rico                             2,279.1       1,088.4         502.7       1,199.1                    3,148.0        1,634.2         990.1        2,623.9                   1,381.0       1,501.0        1,970.0       2,188.0
Tri.id.d 6 Tobago                         448.0         309.7         446.9         370.9                      525.0          376.3          718.6         791.6                   1,172.0        1,215.0       1,608.0       2,134.0
Othors /1                    566.7        625.5       2,20U.4       .t1B0.5         381.5         509.8        812.6         2.505.7       1.894.4         821.8         R90.0     1.299.0        1.248.3       1.605.0       2,154.0
Total                   16,059.9     33,753.5      35,402.6      35,482.2       34,335.1      15,438.6     50,250.0       49,633.6      69,404.6      79,991.1         961.0      1,489.0       1.402.0       1,956.0       2,330.0
/1 only amounts greate-  thou  '100,000.
7r  January - August.
T3 Philippines, Greece, -ermuda, C-ogo, Spain, Prfnt., Malta, Zembia, Aust-alia, Gow Ginea, Singapor-, Sweden, Slit-erlaod, Portugal.
S..-.: CACEX.
J.', 1975



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
Table 9
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
Export Quotas for 1972 and 1973
(ton)
1972         1973
Untied quota /2
Rio Grande do Sul                  30,000       26,500
Central Brazil                     25,000       17,500
Total                              55,000       44,000
Quota related to storage
requirements /3
Rio Grande do Sul                  50,000       37,500
Central Brazil                     63,000       45,000
Total                             113,000       82,500
Special quota for new plants           12,000       18,000
TOTAL                                 1802000      144,500
/1  The quotas given for 1973 are those as they existed in
March 1973.
/2  The untied quota is allocated among processors on the basis
of their historical share of exports.
/3  In 1972, the storage requirement for Rio Grande do Sul was
1 ton for every 5 tons exported and for Central Brazil, 1 ton
for every 1.5 tons exported. In 1973, the respective storage
requirements were 1:2.5 and 1:1.
March 1973



AN4EX L
BRAZIL                             Appendix 4-1
Table 1Q
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Bee^, Export Price ?rojectioits
Current             Index
Prices            1974 = 100
(.$/ton)
1973                   1,687  lJ 109
197iL                  1,550 /               100
1975                   1,395                   90
1976                   1,736                 112
1977                   2,077                 13)4
1978                   2,310                 149
1979                   2,558                 165
1980                   2,945                 190
1985                   4,588                 296
Source: IBRD.
j/ Average for chilled beef.
August 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUBTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
EBtimted Supply of Cattle for Slaughter
in the Project Area
Extraction        Expnsimo         Pate of supply         Estimted supply
Herd              rate              rate            for slaughter          ror slaughter
(1,000 heQd)            %                 %                    %                 (1,000 head)
REGIONS AND YEARS              A                   B                 C               D = B-C                 E = AxD/100
SOUTHEAST
1975                      30,305              17.3               2.5                 14.8                 4,485
1980                      34,120              17.8               2.4                 15.2                 5,185
1985                      38,416              18.0               2.4                 15.6                 6,ooo
SOUTH
1975                      21,440              18.5               2.5                 14.0                 3,001
1980                      24,140              17.9               2.4                 14.5                 5,500
-1985                     27,180               17.1               2.4                14.7                 4,000
CENTER-WEST
1975                      21,992              16.8               5.0                 11.8                 2,595
1980                      27,932              17.0               4.9                 12.1                 3,380
1985                      35*314              17.3               4.8                 12.5                 4,4oo
BRAZIL
1975                      91,290              16.4               3.1                 13.3                12,140
1980                     106,350              16.7               3.1                 13.8                i4,480
1985                     124,510              17.0               3.2                 13.8                17,210
Source:  PLANAVE
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
$sitation --id C2;^4iti aof Becf Prccsc.in- Plants in tho Projlet Ares
(1Y73 )
C A P A C I T Y (1,000 TONS)
C H I L L I N G        C 0 L D  S T 0 R A G E
(i)       (2)         (3)       (14)       (5)                      metalled               Istalled
In                           Permanently a Installed       or       Installed      or
In     Fanotion & Being    Projected Tempwrarily         (1973)   ProJected    (1973)   Projected
Function Expansion  Installed                Closed                                   _        ,197.)
BRAZIL                105       74         17         25          21                                   10903 10l.5  51.1
PROJECT AREA           9_       70         _                      191                       ;5        -7e         49e
SO1rUH                 47       23          4          7           1           4.9          1.8         43.3      17.1
RTo Grande do Sul      30        3          1          6                                    0 -                    9.3
Santa Catarina          5        8          1          -           -           0.6          0.14         1.5       1.3
Parana                 12       10          2          1           1*          0.8          0.9          3.3       6.5
SOUTHEAST              35       37         1           8          12          io.6          4.4         50.7      23.2
Sao Paulo              13             1                            h7*    -                           i 3)2.
Minas Gerais           13:       9          _                      3'          4.7          1.9         13.5       5.4
Espirito Santo          2        2          -          -           -            0.5         0.1          6.3        4.9
Rio de Janeiro          7         7         -           -                       0o.4        0.5          0.1        0.1
Guanabara               -        1          -          -           -            -           0.1           -        0.2
CENTER-WEST            11       10          7          7           6           0.8          1.4          3.6       9.2
Goias                  3;        6          -          ;.                      0                          7        T D  
Mato Grosso             4        3          7"         2           4           o.4          0.9          2.4       7.7
Federal District        2        1          -          -           -            -            -            -         -
12 plaits in categories (1), (3), (4) and (5) did not return survey forms.
Source:  Banco Central do Brasil (GECRI).                                                                                    
Departamento Nacional de Produtos de Origem Animal (DIPOA).
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-, :DUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Her;l a.4 Slaughter Capacity of
Beef Provessing  lattts
(1973-1975)
DEFICIT (-)
H E R D             HEADS FOR SLAUQHTER  SLAUGITrE  CAPAC1T-Y OF PLANT5 (heads)            or
(12.2% RateY.l         D a i 1 y          Slaughter Season/2  SURPLUS (+)
Present Peak Future Capacity Capacity
1973       1975         1973       1975      1973   1973   1975    1973    1975        Present Future
(1)        (2)          (3)        (4)        (6)   (7)    (8)      (9)     (10)        (9-3)   (10-4)
BRAzIL               82 463*2   85,391,4    9 814.3  10 162.8    46 5  34.5   71.6   8 527.4   13,427.7  -19286.9 +3 264.9
PROJECT AREA         66 217.9  68156923 7,133244 ______    14.   32.L&                             1-1.932 7   _ 182:0 +3.822:1
SOUTH               19 956.1   200664.7    21188.4    2,266.2    13.9  10.8   19.2   2 006.o    2 942.9  - 182.5 +  672.7
Rio Grande do Sul  1            13,41T81    1J3347    1,382.1    10.3   =3   11.9   1-2554    1,462,9  -   49.3 +  100.8
Santa Catarina        2,o62.3    2,135.6       251,6       260.5     1*1    .3    1.8      212*6       367.0  -   39.0 +  106.5
Parana               4,935.8    5,111.0        602.1      623.6      2.5   2.2    5.5      508.0    1,093.0  -   94.2 +  469.4
SOLTfHEAST           28 202.4   292203.9    32hl4O.7    3,562.9    24.0  18.7   35.0   4 802.4    7 009.6  +1,361.7 +32446.9
Sao Paulo                        9x9237'    1,169.1    1,210.7    12.3'  I;T7            246.50    397W40 +10295*9 +2P553-3
Minas Gerais         15,913.4   16.478.5    1,941.4    2,010.4       7.4   4.8    9.9   1,476.0    1,974.0  -  465.4 -   36.4
Espirito Santo        1s456.7    1,508.4       177.7      184.0      1.6   1,0    2.0      310.0       390.0  +  132.3 +  206.0
Rio de Janeiro        1,234.6   1278.4        150,6      156.0      2,6   1.4    La1      511.4       811.8  +  360,8 +  655.8
Guanabara                14.5       15.1         1.9         1.8     0.1   0,3    0.2       40.0        70.0  +   38.1 +   68.2
CENTER-WEST         18,059.4   18700.7    2,203.3    2,281.5         42   2   9            842.0    1 980.0  1L366     -  3Q1,5
Goias                 1s]53 1     ,994.7  1s030.0    T.  36i                       .0 ;                             -.7 -   39 X
Mato Grasso           9,874.4  10,225.1    1s204,7    1,247.5        2e0   1.3    6,2      398.0    1,246.0  -  806.7 -    1.5
Federal District         31.9       33.0         3.9         4.0     O.4   0.1    0.5       80.0       100.0  +   76.1 +   96.o
/1 10.3% for RS.
/2 125 days for RS, 200 days for all other states.
Source:  Banco Central do Brasil (GECRI).
Censo Agropecuario 1970.
Surveys by BACEN/BB/DIPOA.                                                                                        w xS
CONDEPE.
July 1975



BRAZIL                                                        ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-1
SECOND ACGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT                                        Table 14
Page1
MODEL A: Beef Processing Plant
Capacity: 300 head/day
Production for Domestic Market
Capacity, Utilization and Production                                                                 Investment Costs
(Cr$ '000)
Maximum amount of cattle per day /1                                  300              Land                                                        1,000
Amount of working days per year                                      260              Civil Works
Land preparation                                       1,000
Maximum amount of cattle slaughtered per year                     78,000                  Plant facilities                                       11,255
By-products rendering                                     798
Production capacity:                                                                      Sanitary slaughter                                        227
Boiler house                                             252
First year                                                       507                 Staff amenities and administration                     1.620
Second year                                                      75%                 Sub-total Civil Works                                 15,152
Third year                                                      100%            Equipment
Meat and offal procesaing equipment                    5,960
Average total utilization                                             69.4%               Supporting equipment I1                                 5,570
Vehicles                                               2.500
Dressed beef /2                                                   10,836 tons
By-products 13                                       4,676 tons             Sub-total Equipment                                    14,030
By-products 12                                                     4,676 tone
Installation                                                3,200
Start-up costs                                                300
Lj Average liveweight 421.5 kg.
/2  Quarters and quarters-boned.                                                     Feasibility study and engineering                              250
/3 Edible and inedible offal, and hides.
Contingencies (5%)                                          1,620
Income                                                   Total                                                  35,552
(Cr$ i000 per Year)
Quarters            5,418,190 kg @ Cr$ 8.36/kg             '      45,302
Quarters-boned      5,418,190 kg @ Cr$ 11.65/kg            '      63,124
By-products         4,676,665 kg @ Cr$ 3.99/kg L2          -      18.678
Total                                                      127,104
L  For 100% capacity  third year.                                                     /1  Refrigeration, water treatment, boiler, etc.
/2 Average value for offal and hides.
Operating Costs L
(Cr$ '000 per Year)
Direct Costs
Labor (production)                                  1,022
Social costs /2                                       421
Livestock purchases L3                             78,162
Utilities                                           1,488
Packing and processing materials                   11,056
Transport finished products                        10.859
Total                                             103,010
Indirect Costs
Administration salaries                             1,314
Indirect labc7                                        471
Social coats  2                                       814
Maintenance                                           420
Insurance                                             602
Taxes                                                 636
Miscellaneous (5%)                                    740
Total                                               4,997
/1  1007 capacity  third year.
/2  45.6% of wages.
/3  Average price, Cr$ 1,475/head.
December 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL A: Beef Processing Plant
Capacity - 300 head/day
Production for D sestic Market
(Cr$ '000)
Year ....  1          2          3         4         5          6         7         8          9        10         11        12        13         14        15
Percent Utilization                    50        75
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
Fixed investment                         35,552      -          -         -         -          -         -        2,500/1          -          -         -         -          -               -
Working capital                            -         9,000      -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -          - /2
Operating income                           -       63,552    95,328    95,328    95,327    95,327    95,328    95,327    95,328    95,328    95,328    95,328    95,328    95,328   115,827-
Variable costs                             -       51,505    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258    77,258
Fixed costs                                -        4,997      4,997     4,997     4,997      4,997     4,997     4,997      4,997     4,997      4,997     4,997     4,997      4,997     4,997
Operating proy3t                           -        7,050    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073    13,073
Depreciation -                             -        2,441      2,441     2,441     2,441      2,441     2,441     2,441      2,441     2,441      2,441     2,441      2,441     2,441      2,441
Interest - Long term                       -          -        1,564     1,369     1,173        978       782       587        391       196       -         -          -         -          -
Short term                      -          450       450        450       450       450        450       450       450        450       450        450       450       450        450
Profit before taxes                        -        4,159      8,618     8,813      9,009     9,204     9,400     9,595      9,791     9,986    10,182    10,182    10,182    10,182    10,182
Taxes (30%)                                -         1,248     2,585     2,644     2,703      2,761     2,820     2,879      2,937     2,996      3,055     3,055      3,055     3,055      3,055
Profit after taxes                         -         5,802    10,488    10,429    10,370    10,312    10,253    10,194    10,136    10,077    10,018    10,018    10,018    10,018    10,018
Net cash flow                           (35,552)   (3,198)   10,488    10,429    10,370    10,312    10,253        7,694    10,136    10,077    10,018    10,018    10,018    10,018    30,517
Sources and Uses of Funds
Sources:
Loan                                28,442     1,422/4   1,422-"     -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Profit after taxes                    -        5,802    10,488    10,429    10,370    10,312    10,253    10,194    10,136    10,077    10,018    10,018    10,018    10,018    10,018
Total                               28,442     7,224    11,910    10,429    10,370    10,312    10,253    10,194    10,136    10,077    10,018    10,018    10,018    10,018    10,018
Uses:
Investment                          35,552      -          -         -          -         -         -        2,500       -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Working capital                       -         9,000      -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Interest - Long term                  -         -         1,564     1,369     1,173        978      982        587        391        196      -         -          -
Short term                -           450       450        450       450       450      450         450       450        450       450        450       450        450       450
Amortization                          -          -        3,910     3,910      3,910     3,910    3,910       3,910     3,910      3,916      -          -         -          -         -
Total                               35,552     9,450      5,924     5,729      5,533     5,338    5,142       7,447     4,751      4,556       450       450        450       450        450
Cash Position - Annual                   (7,110)   (2,226)    5,986      4,700      4,837     4,974     5,111      2,747     5,385      5,521     9,568      9,568     9,568      9,568     9,568
Cuamlative               (7,110)   (9,336)   (3,350)    1,350      6,187    11,161    16,272    19,019    24,404    29,925    39,493    49,061    58,629    68,197    77,765
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 20.75%
L  Reinvestment in vehicles.
/2  Includes residual value of buildings, Cr$ 10,499; working capital, Cr$ 9,000; and land, Cr$ 1,000.
T3i Depreciation for buildings, 30 years; for equipment, 15 years, and for vehicles, 7 years.                                                                                              as e 
/4  Interest on fixed investment during grace period added to investment.
December 1975



BRAZIL                                                                    ANNEX 4
BRA2 IL                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~App end ix 4 -1i
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT                                                     Table 15
Page 1
MODEL B: Beef Processing Plant
Capacity: 600 head/day
Production for Export
and Domestic Markets
Capacity. Utilization and Production                                                                    Investment Costs
(Cr$ '000)
Maximum amount of cattle per day /1                               600                  Land                                                          2,000
Amount of working days per year                                    260                 Civil Works
Land preparation                                        2,000
Maximum amount of cattle slaughtered per year                  97,000                       Plant facilities                                        19,934
By-products Rendering                                   1,418
Prodtuction Capacity:                                                                       Sanitary slaughter                                       2,315
Boiler house                                               315
First year                                                  50%                      Staff amenities and administration                       2,340
Second year                                                 75%                      Sub-total Civil Works                                   28,322
Third year                                                 1007                  Equipment
Meat and offal processing equipment                     10,275
Average total utilization                                         69.4                      Supporting equipment                                     9,030
Dressed beef /2                                                20,012 tons
Sub-total Equipment                                     23,175
By-products [3                                                  8,522 tons
Installation                                                 4,400
Start-up Costs                                                 300
/1  Average live weight 421.50 kg.
/2  Quarters, frozen quarters, frozen boneless meat,                                   Feasibility study and engineering                               250
special cuts, and chilled boneless.
/3  Edible and inedible offal, and hides.                                              Contingencies (5%)                                            2.850
TOTAL                                                  61,297
Income /L                                                                                          /
Operating Costs /
(Cr9 '000 per Year)                                                                 (Cr$ '000  per  Year)
Approximately 40% of production for export:                                            Direct Costs
Labor (produc ion)                                       1,413
Frozeni quarters          3,966,524 kg @ Cr$ 8.80/kg           34,905                       Social costs LI                                            664
Livestock purchases /3                                143,051
Frozen boneless meat    3,470,708 kg @ Cr$ 13.23/kg            45,924                       Utilities                                                2,558
Packing and processing materials                       21,894
Special Cuts              2,181,588 kg @ Cr$ 15.13/kg          33,003                       Transport finished products                             19,848
Export shipping charges A                               3,296
Chilled boneless            297,490 kg @ Cr$ 21.03/kg           6,237
Total                                                 192,724
Approximately 60% of production for domestic market:                                    Indirect Costs
Administration salaries                                  1,094
Quarters                  4,958,155 kg @ Cr$ 7.39/kg           36,666                       Indirect labo;                                           1,439
Social costs -                                          1,155
Quarters-boned            4,958,155 kg @ Cr$ 12.62/kg          62,560                       Maintenance                                                722
Insurance                                                1,044
By-products               8,521,765 kg N Cr$ 4.01/kg /2    34.197                           Taxes                                                    1,268
Miscellaneous                                            1.458
Total                                                  253,512
Total                                                    8,180
/1  For 1007. capacity  third year,                                                    /1  For 100% capacity  third year.
/2  Average value for offal and hides.                                                 /2  45.6% of wages.
/3  Average price Cr$ 1,475/head.
4 Cr$ 1/km/ton.
December 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL B; Beef Processing Plant
Capacity - 600 head/day
Production for Expert and Domestic Market
(Cr$ '000)
Year .... 1            2          3         4          5         6         7          8         9         10        11         12        13         14        15
Percent Utilization                    50        75
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
Fixed investment                         61,297      -          -         -          -         -         -         3,870- /
Working capital                            -        12,000      -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -         -
Operating income                           -      126,756   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   190,134   219,294-
Variable costs                             -        96,362   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543   144,543
Fixed costs                                -         8,180     8,180      8,180     B,lBO      ,1BO      8,180     8,180     8,180      8,180     8,180      8,180     8,180      8,180     8,180
Profit                                     -        22 214    37 411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411    37,411
DepreciationL3                             -         3,144     3,144     3,144      3,144     3,144      3,144     3,144     3,144      3,144     3,144      3,144     3,144      3,144     3,144
Interest - Long term                       -          -        2.697     2,360      2,023     1,686     1,349      1,011       674        337      -          -         -          -         -
Short term                      -          600        600       600       600        600       600        600       600        600       600       600        600       600        600
Profit before taxes                        -        18,470    30,970    31,307    31,644    31,981    32,318    32,656    32,993    33,330    34,267    34,267    34,267    34,267    34,267
Taxes (30%)                                -         5,541     9,291     9,392      9,493     9,594     9,695      9,796     9,899      9,999    10,280    10,280    10,280    10,280    10,280
Profit after tases                         -        16,673    28,120    28,019    27,918    27,817    27,716    27,615    27,512    27,412    27,131    27,131    27,131    27,131    27,131
Net cash flow                           (61,297)    4,673    28,120    28,019    27,918    27,817    27,716    23,745    27,512    27,412    27,131    27,131    27,131    27,131    56,291
Sources and Uses of Funds
Sources:                                                  4         IA
Loan                                49,038      2,452L4   2,4524    -           -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -
j'rofit after taxes                    -       16,673    28,120    28,019    27,918    27,817    27,716    27,615    27,512    27,412    27,131    27,131    27,131    27,131    27,131
Total                               49,038    19,125    30,572    28,019    27,918    27,817    27,716    27,615    27,512    27,412    27,131    27,131    27,131    27,131    27,131
Uses:
Investment                          61,297      -          -         -          -         -         -         3,870      -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Working capital                       -        12,000      -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Interest - Long term                  -          -        2,697     2,360      2,023     1,686     1,349      1,011        674       337       -         -          -         -
Short term                 -          600       600        600       600        600       600       600        600       600        600       600        600       600        600
Amortization                          -          -        6,743     6,743      6,743     6,743      6,743     6,743      6,743     6,741       -         -          -         -          -
Total                               61,297    12,600    10,040       9,703     9,366     9,029      8,692    12,224      8,017     7,680        600       600        600       600        600
Cash Position - Annual                  (12,259)    6,525    20,532    18,316    18,552    18,788    19,024    15,391    19,495    19,732    26,531    26,531    26,531    26,531    26,531
- Cumulative              (12,259)   (5,734)   14,798    33,114    51,666    70,454    89,478   104,869   124,364   144,096   170,627   197,158   223,689   250,220   276,751
FINA4CIAL RATE OF RETURN: 34. 95%
/I Reinvestment in vehicles.
/2 Includes residual value of buildings, Cr$ 15,160; land, Cr$ 2,OOQ and working capital, Cr$ 12,000.                                                                                     o
/3  Depreciation for buildings, 30 years; for equipment, 15 years; and vehicles, 7 years.                                                                                                 m   a
/4  Interest on fixed investment during grace period added to investment.
December 1975



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Pork Processing
A. Production
1.         The swine herd in Brazil was estimated by the Instituto Brasileiro
de Geografia e Estatistica (IBGE) at 41,156,000 head in 1973 (Table 1), with
71% recorded in the project area. This number has continued to grow at a
rate of 7% per year, according to the Instituto Paulista de Economia Agricola
(IPEA), although increasing production costs, particularly those involving
feed, have probably held the rate below what it might have been had costs
been lower. Domestic demand for pork meat has been estimated to increase at
8.2% annually, thus indicating a deficit in supply even under the best con-
ditions, at least until 1985.
2.         Problems of technology also restrain expansion of hog production.
Efforts to improve breeds by moving toward meat production rather than fat
have met success in the more developed states, but work along these lines is
far from being widespread. One factor that has contributed to the emphasis
on the meat producing hog is the increasing use of vegetable oils, particu-
larly soybean oil. A higher slaughter rate is also realized as well as a more
efficient transformation of feed. Much needs to be done, however, to achieve
an efficient rate of production, including an extensive program of rural ex-
tension, improved selection of sires, widespread utilization of vaccines and
other medication, and ample use of balanced feeds.
3.         Some of the larger pork slaughterhouses, such as the Companhia de
Alimentos do Brasil (COIlABRA) in Ponta Grossa, Parana, are attempting to
improve breeds through the establishment of pilot farms, extension services
to their suppliers, and a pricing policy that favors more efficient breeds.
4.         In some states, the production of hogs and derived products is
receiving considerable attention, as in Rio Grande do Sul where a program
for the support of hog-derived industries is being developed by the Banco
Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul (BRDE). The program is geared to
assist in the financing of fixed investments and operating capital for the
modernization of the hog industry to improve utilization of the installations,
increase production, and resolve some of the sanitary problems identified by
the Departamento de Inspecao de Productos de Origem Animal (DIPOA). Some of
the investments included in the program are aimed at increasing hog produc-
tion, either directly through an expansion or initiation of swine raising
operations integrated with industrialization, or indirectly through the ex-
pansion and/or construction of feed mills and breeder farms serving the
suppliers of pork industries.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Page 2
5.         The Government of Rio Grande do Sul has taken steps to support the
program through its Secretariat for Agriculture and the Associacao Brasileira
de Criadores Suinos by creating a Sanitary Unit to control helmintosis in
hogs; establishing an intensive program of zootechnical extension with new
inspection centers to provide technical assistance; and creating a Conselho
de Desenvolvimento da Suinocultura (CODESU-RS) to advise the state government
on hog production and pork industrialization matters.
6.         A careful census of swine population conducted by BRDE in 1973 re-
vealed a population of 3,350,919 head in Rio Grande do Sul (Table 2), almost
one half of that shown by IBGE. The lower figure is consistent with a lack
of interest in swine production in recent years, due to instability of prices
offered the producers, the increase in production costs and the unstable
supply of feed. Of the materials used as hog feeds, such as corn, manioc,
and soy meal, corn is the main one and its price is therefore closely related
to the price of hogs in the market.
7.         According to BRDE, statistics on swine population up to 1972 were
inaccurate and the slaughter rates resulting from calculations based on
excessively optimistic population figures were low, reaching 44.9% in 1970
and 44.5% in 1972. With a more accurate population count in 1973, the slaugh-
ter rate rose to 80.5%, but this is exceedingly high and would imply the
extreme reduction of the swine population in a period of less than two years.
The indication is that either the swine population in 1973 was underestimated,
or, possibly, population figures do not take into account the total slaughter
throughout the year. This would bring the swine population figures to
6,047,919 and the slaughter rate down to 44.5%, which is consistent with
previous years even though it is still high.
8.         The State of Santa Catarina, on the other hand, accepts the figures
of IBGE and places its swine herd at 3,323,000 head in 1973 and claims a more
sensible slaughter rate of 32%. By 1974, the herd had increased to 5,'$26,000
head (growth rate, 63.3%) and the slaughter rate was reduced to 19.7%. This
increase in swine production is directly related to significant increases in
the price of pork in the state. The Instituto Brasileiro de Assistencia
Gerencial a Pequena e Media Empresa (IBAGESC) in 1974 determined that the
average price per kg has increased from Cr$ 2.3 in 1970 to Cr$ 4.86 in 1974.
IBAGESC also estimated that 97.5% of the slaughter in the state corresponded
to state-raised hogs, while the remaining 2.5% were imported from Rio Grande
do Sul, which makes the slaughter rate slightly higher in relation to the
state herd.
9.         One of the conclusions reached in a study by the Secretaria de
Desenvolvimento Economico, IBAGESC and BRDE (Table 3) was that the state
herd improved substantially in the 1970-74 period, not only numerically but
in quality, due to improved breeding and management practices. The same
study emphasizes that the advisability of expanding slaughter and processing
capacity of plants is conditional on the feasibility of increasing the supply,
particularly in micro-regions such as Blumenau, where hogs must be imported
from other regions of the state or from neighboring states to maintain a
reasonable slaughter rate.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Page 3
B. The Industry
Structure
10.        In April 1975, DIPOA certified 44 hog slaughtering houses in the
southern and southeastern states; however, this figure could be a bit mis-
leading as some of the larger plants may be included under the category of
frigorificos matadouros, which are slaughterhouses with cold storage or
freezer facilities. Of the 44 plants, 31 are in Rio Grande do Sul, eight
in Santa Catarina, two plants each in Minas Gerais and Parana, and one plant
in Sao Paulo.
11.        Hog slaughtering is a national industry, with most plants privately
owned, though 20% of the units ia Rio Grande do Sul belong to cooperatives.
There are a number of large plants such as SADIA, which has a theoretical
capacity of 600,000 head per year; Companhia de Matadouros do Brasil (COMABRA),
which can kill 800 head per day and is planning to expand its capacity to
1,680; and Swift-Armour in Sao Paulo. Most of the plants in Rio Grande do
Sul and Santa Catarina are small: average annual kill per plant in 1973 was
65,000 in the former and 127,000 in the latter. The trend is toward locating
the slaughterhouses in the hog production areas and to ship the carcasses or
cuts in refrigerated trucks or rail cars to plants in the urban areas for
further processing.
12.        The market for pork products is growing at a rate of about 10% per
year, though one of the drawbacks is the high price of pork, which in Brazil
is more expensive than beef. Cold cuts and various types of sausages are
growing steadily, but this section of the industry is highly fragmented with
many small manufacturers producing for local markets. It is estimated that
the SADIA group controls about 15% of this mar.-:et, with COMABRA and Swift-
Armour producing 10% each, and the rest is processed by smaller companies.
13.        Plant visits were made to Frigobras in Sao Paulo, which is part of
the SADIA group and to COMABRA in Ponta Grossa, Parana. Frigobras is a pro-
cessing plant that converts hogs killed at the SADIA plant in Toledos, Parana,
into hams, sausages, cold cuts and luncheon meats. This plant is only 10
years old, but is already becoming cramped for space due to the continuous
increase in demand for its products. COMABRA is a hog slaughterhouse that
ships carcasses to its Osasco plant for further processing. Both plants,
though old, are well designed and can operate efficiently at their normal
rate of production. The staff is competent and technically qualified, while
operating personnel seem adequately trained. The veterinary and sani ation
inspections are under DIPOA cDntrol.
14.        COMABRA is undertaking a hog improvement program by important stock
from Europe, which it will raise at its own farm for breeding purposes. This
stock will also go to supply other hog producers with high yielding animals,
which they, in turn, can use to imprcu'- their own herds. This is a long-range
program, but COMABRA is helping to mo ernize the industry by undertaking it.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Page 4
_quipment
15.        Brazil can manufacture much of the basic equipment needed for hog
slaughtering; however, specialized machinery must still be imported as the
demand does not warrant local production.
C. Marketing
16.        Consumer preference is heavily slanted toward beef.  In 1974, per
capita consumption of pork was estimated at 6.7 kg, as compared with 23.5 kg
of beef. In Brazil, consumption of pork is low compared to that of beef and
relative to pork consumption levels in other countries. That situation may
change gradually as better quality pork from meat hogs becomes more plentiful,
and more efficient production and larger supplies of pork should be reflected
in a closer beef-pork price relationship. Lower prices of pork relative to
beef undoubtedly would encourage greater consumption. Export trade is sup-
plied by processors that operate modern plants in the main producing states
and that meet international trade sanitary standards.
Domestic Market
17.        A high percentage of pork is consumed in non-fresh form, at least
partly because of marketing conditions, particularly outside the urban cen-
ters where refrigeration and storage facilities are inadequate for fresh pork.
Ham, salt pork, and bacon account for 36.2% of pork marketing; lard, 16%; and
sub-products (sausage and such) and all other items, 30%. That leaves about
17.8% of the carcass for fresh meat.
18.        Changing tastes, new merchandising systems, and rising incomes will
influence the product mix in the future. Salt pork and lard will decline in
importance, while fresh meat and sub-products will grow faster than other
items. The latter category will benefit from improved presentation, pack-
aging and product innovation. The table below lists the typical product mix
of a larger modern pork processor.
19.        With the shifting of emphasis to meat-type hogs, the outlook for
the industry is excellent. In the domestic market, socio-economic factors
favoring increased consumption of various commodities als(- will sustain rising
demand for pork. The export market for special pork cuts is good and, in fact,
a modest trade already is being conducted by the modern pork processing en-
terprises. COMABRA, a borrower under the first agro-industry loan, is a
leading force in this developing export trade.
20.        Commercial pork production, processing and marketing are concen-
trated in the south of Brazil. Parana is becoming the leader in this sector
where, historically, Rio Grande do Sul was most important. Following those
two states are Santa Catarina and Sao Paulo, a distant fourth. Pork and pork
products are supplied to the principal consuming centers from the aforementioned



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Page 5
states. In Minas Gerais, pork processors are active and supply local markets,
basing their operations on hogs brought from Parana. Per capita consumption,
in the U.S. and Canada and in Europe are compared below with the Brazilian
data:
196. -63        1970-72
---- kg ----------
Brazil                       6.4             6.8
U.S. and Canada             28.1            30.8
Europe                      20.4            25.4
Source: USDA.
Ham                                 15.6
Bacon                                9.4
Loin                                 1.7
Salt pork                           11.2
Lard                                16.0
Ground meat                          1.9
Various cuts                        13.2
Sub-products (sausages, etc.)       23.5
Other                                7.5
Source: COMABRA.
Export >arket
21.        World trade in pork products approximates 1.5 million tons.  It is
in this context that Brazilian processors view their market prospects. Be-
cause of the limitations of the industry, Brazil has not exported large quan-
tities of pork, but expansion of such trade will follow installation of addi-
tional modern processing facilities that meet importers' sanitary standards.
Export capability already is being demonstrated by the few shippers. Because
of the aftosa problem, markets for fresh pork in the U.S., Japan, United
Kingdom and Sweden are closed to Brazilian exporters. The principal markets
for frozen pork exports have been the Netherlands, Spain and Italy. Smaller
quantities are also sent to other European countries (Table 4).
22.        Export volume has not been dynamic and, in fact, 1974 shipments of
frozen pork totaled 1,623 tons, as compared with 2,129 tons in 1970. The
lower figure reflects mainly deteriorating economic conditions in the major
market areas. However, export unit values were up sharply in 1974 to US$1,644
per ton, as compared with US$636 per ton in 1970.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Page 6
Prices
23.        The prices for better cuts of pork are substantially higher than
equivalent quality beef. A tabulation of averages for all cuts of beef or
pork in Sao Paulo shows that the later is more costly.
Beef         Pork
US$/kg ----
January 1973               1.16          1.29
September 1974            1.74          2.22
March 1975                 1.81          2.23
Source: Instituto de Economia Agricola (SP).
24.        Pork consumption among the lower classes consists largely of offal,
ground meat, shoulder and leg (the part that does not go into ham). Pork loin,
which is comparable to the beef sirloin, nearly doubled in price from 1970 to
1974, rising from US$2.06 per kg to US$3.76 per kg. Similarly, at wholesale,
pork loin went from US$1.44 in 1970 to US$2.59 per kg in 1974. Wholesale
prices (f.o.b. plant) in May 1975 were as follows:
US$/kg
Ham                              2.50
Loin                             2.13
Tripe                            1.75
Bacon                            1.63
Liver, heart, tongue             1.25
Feet                             1.00
25.        Projected wholesale prices (average bone-in, boneless) are set forth
below to illustrate general expectation in the industry. These are undeflated
data.
Year                       Cr$/kg
1976                        18.49
1977                        21.45
1978                        24.88
1979                        28.86
1980                        32.48
1981                        38.83
1982                       45.04
1983                        52.24
1984                        60.60
Source: COMABRA.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Page 7
26.        There is a pronounced seasonal cycle in the marketing of hogs.
Offerings decline markedly in the December - February period, but the in-
fluence of that cycle on pork prices is not strong. In recent years, pro-
ducer prices appear to have been lower during the trough of the cycle, which
would be contrary to expectations. The peaks and lows of hog prices from
1970-74 are shown below.
January      July       September
----------- Cr$/head -----------
1970      151.08        129.79
1971      126.23        144.85
1972      185.26        246.19
1973      242.92        255.55
1974      437.00        535.00      620.00
Source:  COMABRA.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-2
Table 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Pork Production in the Project Area
(1973)
Swine                              Inspected
Heads             Value            Slaughter
('000)     %    (Cr$ '000)  %        (Heads)    %
Brazil                               41,156   100      8,928,195 100   4,663,296  100
Project Area                         29,086    71       6,766,562  76   4,649,783   99
South                                16,830    41      3,915,903  44   3,931,766   84
Parana                             7,406    18      1,540,497  17       803,282   17
Sta. Catarina                      3,323      8       917,256  10   1,108,042   24
Rio Grande do Sul                  6,101    15      1,458,050  17   2,020,442   43
Southeast                             8,723    21      2,222,838  25       708,167   15
Minas Gerais                       4,158    10      1,068,559  12       200,951    4
Espirito Santo                       767      2       207,172   2          -        -
Rio de Janeiro LI                    431      1       108,715   1        57,453    1
Sao Paulo                          3,367      8       838,392  10      449,763   10
Center West                           3,533      9        627,921   7        9,850    -
Mato Grosso                        1,173      3        185,341   2         -        -
Goias                              2,342      6       435,569   5         9,850    -
Federal District                      18      -          7,011   -         -        -
/1  Includes the old States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source: IBGE and DIPOA.
June 1975



A.ZHWEX 4
Appendix 4-2
r'able 2
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-TNDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Swine Population and Slaughter Rate in Rio Grande do Su-l
1947-1973
Total    Sla-aghter    Lispected  S'lal-e ter
Year    iPopulationi  Slaughter    '-,ate      8laugh-er      Bate
7,dr9 021, 5W0    2, 219, 332    3.2  1, 82h, 252    25.7
I?68J    7,365, 820    2,578,621    35240      1, 96379       25.7
1960     7, 462, 095    2, 5h5, 637    34 .1   1, 8230354
1970     5, 852.,132 /1 2 630 167 4 L.9   o , 202,212        32.5
171    s6,078,320    2,8l12j,2.90    46.2     2,18s,261      35 3
192      6 025,580    2,655,000 /3 44.1         1,991,229     33.0 
l?73     3 350,919 /2 2 6Q9  000 /3 80,5        2 022 683     60,3
/1 Qenso Agrodeciiario.
/2 'ensus co-Inducted b  the Supertisao da FTroducao Animal, Secretaria da
Agricultura -2:.
/3 Estimates.
Source   Ti.DE.
June 1975



Appendix 4-2
Table 3
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Swine Herd and Inspected Slaughter
in Santa Catarina and the Southern Reiion
(1970-1974)
Santa Catarina                          Southern Relon
wle>      ^ar cnlrCir       T. Iected SlaughterSwine    Tnsrpected  Slaughter
Year     Herd       7ave         s,aughter tate       Herd     Slanghter  Rate
1970     ),J) 5,0  (-) 042.5    889, 256   28.2  '5 2.9, 000  3,299, 88  2107
1?71    41l43,000  (+) 4103   1,03,6-17   23,4         -         930.,609   -
1972    . 31A,OOO (0-)  2.9   2,016 417   23 6         -       3,660,812   -
r273    3, 3.93,DOO 'oo   -) 3O~ X    , 06r?9 M76   32.0  16, .30, 000  3, 887, 347  231
1074    5,426,  0 1     , 63-1   4 067,124 1 .7  24 6h,14 oo A   644, 279  16.3
Source : 2                   -DE.
June 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Exports of Frozen Pork L
Tons                                    US$'000 f.o.b.                                   US$/ton
1970      1971       1972        1974/2   1970       1971      1972       1974/2    1970            1971          1972         1974 /2
Germany                    582.8       12.6       43.0       17.8      350.5      10.9      32.0       25.0       601.40        865.07        744.18      1,404.49
Neth. Antilles                          1.1                  10.0                  1.6                 20.9                  1,454.54                    2,090.00
Belgium and Luxembourg      33.5       29.0       20.8       8.0        30.3      23.3      19.0       10.0       904.47        803.44        913.46     2,000.00
Chile                                 880.0       30.0                          567.2       30.6                               644.54      1,020.00
Spain                       10.0      103.9      176.8      364.2        5.6      97.9     176.1      560.3       560.00        942.25        996.04      1,538.44
France                      36.0       10.0       59.0       50.0       36.5       8.5      52.0       75.0    1,013.88         850.00        881.35      1,500.00
Hongkong                    14.0       12.0                  31.0       14.0      12.1                 48.1    1,000.00       1,008.33                    1,551.61
Norway                                  1.6        6.0                             1.5       5.3                                937.50        883.33
Netherlands              1,039.3      206.0      193.5                 657.5    179.7      165.8      228.3       632.63        872.33        856.84      1,445.85
Portugal                   197.6       20.0                            129.1      12.6                            653.34        630.0
Italy                       20.5                  22.0      983.8       13.5                20.2   1,693.0        658.53                      918.18      1,721.69
Czechoslovakia             195.5                                       118.2                                      604.60
Total               2,129.2   1,276.2      551.1    1,622.7   1,355.2    915.3        501.0   2,667.4       636.00        717.0          909.00     1,644.00
/1 Figures for 1973 not available.
/2 January - August.
Source: CACEX
July 1975
n.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT II
Poultry Proces sij
A. Production
1.        A study published in 1974 by the Associacao Paulista de Avicultura
(APA) showed that per capita consumption of meat in Brazil was only 29 per
year, of which 60% (17.4 kg) was beef; 30% (8.7 kg) was pork, and 10% was
poultry (2.2 kg) and fish (0.7 kg). Alternative meats, such as lamb, mutton,
goat and rabbit, are either too localized or exotic to be of major signifi-
cance. The same study indicated that in large urban centers, such as Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, 50% of the families consume chicken once a week,
25% consume it every two weeks, 13% once a month. and 12% only sporadically.
2.        The development of more modern industrial processing methods for
chicken and efforts to bring beef prices closer to the international market
price have probably helped increase poultry consumption, particularly because
of competitive prices of chicken.
3.        The expansion of chicken production has been particularly notable
in the Sao Paulo area where population increases and changing food habits
have stimulated the market. Calculations made by the APA show a production
of 97 million chicken in 1971 for the State of Sao Paulo, with a 17.5%
slaughter rate. In 1974, production had increased to 160 million and the
slaughter rate to 61.8%. Wqhile these figures do not represent the average
for the country, it is clear that the amount of poultry in the diet is more
significant in the project area, particularly in the South and Southeast
regions, than elsewhere in Brazil.  In 1973 the total number of birds in the
project areas was 271,676,000 (Table 1).
4.        The production of fowl, of which poultry constitutes about 95%,
grew by 66%0 in tile period 1960-70, while chick.en meat production is estimated
to have increased by 1,258% in the same period. These large increases, which
took place mainly in the larger producing centers of Sao Paulo and Minas
Gerais, were due primarily to substitution of the traditional double-purpose
breeds (New Hampshire, Plymouth Rock, Rhode Island Red and Sussex) with im-
ported specialized breeds for meat (White Cornish, White Plymouth Rock) or
for eggs (cross--breeds from 'White Leghorn), as well as improved technology
for breeding and feeding.
5.        In the Southeast, and mainly in Sao Paulo, specialized units sell
one-day--old chickens to the raising farms to use as stock for other areas of
the country. One limiting factor to a continued expansion of production is
the high cost of the operation, particularly for commercial feed, due to in-
creases in the price of its components, corn, soybean, fish meal and others.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 2
6.        According to the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(IBGE), in 1972 chicken farms with more than 50 hens represented only 15' of
the total number of farms raising chickens in the project area. IThile the
number may not have increased significantly since, such farms contribute a
much larger share of the total production than they did in 1972, particularly
in the case of large cooperatives such as COTIA, which supply the chicken
processing market by combining the production of all its members.
7.        The Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social (IPEA) estimates
an increase in the demand for chicken at a rate of 9.8% annually, based on
the hypothesis of a 10% annual growth of GDP. High production costs, however,
tend to limit demand because of the relatively lower prices of beef in the
market. This situation may change, of course, as the price of beef moves up
toward the levels of the international market, which would provide an added
incentive to poultry production.
8.        The State of Santa Catarina, with a poultry population of 15,184,000
in 1974 increased its slaughter from 3.5 million in 1970 to 27 million in
1974, with an average rate of increase of 65% for the four-year period. While
the poultry population of the state is smaller than that of the neighboring
states, the slaughter rate is high due to the use of modern techniques which
allow a chicken to be ready for slaughter in 56 days. Processing plants,
such as SADIA and PERDIGON, promote production by supplying one-day-old chicks,
feed and technical assistance to the producers to insure sufficient supplies
and maintain a high quality standard.
B.  The Industry
Structure
9.        Poultry processing is rapidly becoming a major industry in the
project area. Some 80% of Brazil's total poultry population is grown in
this area, but only about 24% of the birds are slaughtered in Departamento
de Inspecao de Produtos de Origem Animal (DIPOA)-approved facilities. Sao
Paulo has the largest number of approved poultry slaughterhouses with 57%,
followed by Parana and Rio de Janeiro with 10% each, Minas Gerais and Rio
Grande do Sul with 9% each, Santa Catarina with 3%, and Espirito Santo with
2%. Santa Catarina with only 3% of the approved slaughterhouses kills 28% of
the birds in Brazil, but this can be attributed mainly to the SADIA operation,
which is one of the largest plants in the country.
10.       Poultry slaughtering is a national industry that is changing rapidly
in composition due to the expansion that is taking place. In 1973 there were
five large processors, 75 medium-sized plants and hundreds of small pro-
cessors. The latter are being replaced by DIPOA-approved plants with capa-
cities of 1,000 to 2,000 birds per hour. A few larger plants in the 3,000
bird-per--tour range are planined.  Plants have an annual capacity of 1,800,000
to 5,9J0,000 birds and are modern well-designed facilities with refrigeration



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 3
for freezing and storing packaged poultry. A few of the larger units also
prepare some of the by-products on their premises rather than sell such items
to outsiders.
11.        Many of the plants are owned by corporations formed by individual
poultry raisers, a number are owned by poultry cooperatives, while others
belong to companies specializing in slaughtering and distribution. Most of
the plants are close to urban areas to facilitate distribution and marketing.
Since poultry raising, especially for slaughterhouses, has increased the
demand for feed mills to supply balanced rations to the industry, both indus-
tries are growing in parallel.
Equipment
12.        Brazil can supply most of the equipment required for poultry
slaughterhouses, though all of the stainless steel for fabricated items must
be imported. Local companies such as Greco Mecanics Mader and Stork-Brabant
can do all the necessary engineering for the plants in addition to furnishing
turnkey operations if this is requested by the individual companies. Refrig-
eration machinery is available in Brazil though some of the higher speed
sophisticated machinery must be imported.
C. Marketing
Domestic Market
13.        The dynamic expansion of the broiler industry in Brazil is a phenom-
enon of recent years, but there is no indication that the industry has reached
maturity. The low level of per capita consumption of poultry meat in rela-
tion to beef consumption and in comparison with poultry meat consumption in
other developing and developed countries shows that the broiler industry in
Brazil can be considered to be in an early stage of development. Recent
growth is described below in terms of production data, but these data in fact
represent demand in the period under review, because output generally repre-
sents availabilities over the year that are absorbed by the market, except
for temporary gluts in supply that reflect marketing and distribution problems
rather than basic disequilibrium between supply and demand.
14.        Broiler output rose more than two and a half times in the 1969-73
period, going from 112,000 tons to 293,000 tons. Further expansion occurred
in the 1974/75 period and additional processing capacity is planned in the
oncoming years to accommodate increasing production. In the State of Sao
Paulo, where the principal broiler production centers are located, productive
capacity totals 20.5 million birds. On an average of five production cycles
per year for the broiler producers, potential output in Sao Paulo alone could
reach 102 million broilers per year. The pace of growth of the broiler in-
dustry is shown below.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 4
Index
Year      '000 tons   (1969 - 100)  (% of Increase)
1969          112          100               -
1970          158          141              41
1971          163          146               3
1972          215          192              32
1973          293          262              36
15.        The predominant role of the broiler industry in poultry meat con-
sumption is shown in the table below.
Broiler
Z of Poultry
Year      '000 tons       Meat Products
1969        141                79
1970        187                84
1971        192                 85
1972        243                88
1973        321                 91
Source: Basic data from USDA.
16.        It is apparent that the increasing volume of poultry meat consump-
tion is almost entirely a result of new broiler availabilities in recent
years. Per capita consumption of poultry meat in Brazil is estimated at
3.1 kg less than any major Western Hemisphere nation. The potential for the
broiler industry is clearly shown by the comparative 1973 per capita consump-
tion data following:
Country
Brazil          3.1
U.S.           22.7
Canada         21.0
Argentina      12.1
Venezuela       6.9
Peru            4.9
Mexico          4.0
17.        Assuming that the average broiler dresses out at about 1.4 kg, the
estimated production of 102 million broilers in the State of Sao Paulo would
sustain a per capita consumption of 1.4 kg. Since Sao Paulo produces about
half the broilers in the country, another 1.4 kg per capita comes from all
the other producing states. The latter production would include all stages
of industrialization, a sizeable portion of which has not yet come under the
DIPOA inspection system. Be that as it may -- about 0.3 kg per capita is
then made up of mature poultry and all other types of fowl.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 5
18.       There are many factors impinging on broiler consumption, mainly of
a sociopsychological nature rather than socio-economic, that render difficult
the projection of poultry meat consumption in the years ahead. The principal
factor inhibiting increased sales of broilers is the antipathy toward the
frozen product. Consumers and tradesmen must be educated in the handling of
frozen meat. This is being partially dealt with in the distant consumption
centers in the warmer areas of Brazil where some merchants are offering frozen
broilers as the fresh product to unknowing customers. Promotion of frozen
broilers under a well-known quality label would go far toward dispelling the
reluctance consumers feel and would broaden the market rapidly. Such accep-
tance is a necessary condition to expanding the market in tropical climate
areas, because the efficiency and economy that can be realized in distribution
will permit prices to be held down.
Export Market
19.       Most of the European trade in poultry meat is within the Continent,
the exception being the U.S., a major supplier. The U.S. is also a principal
source for the market in Japan, which country also imports a large volume
from China, East Europe, Canada and Denmark and the east European countries.
With the devaluation of the dollar, the U.S. broiler industry has become more
competitive in world markets although a series of trade disputes have occurred
in recent years between the U.S. and the EEC because of tariff barriers and
restrictions imposed by the latter countries on third country poultry.
20.       Brazil has not entered the export trade in broilers because the
industry is in its initial phase of spontaneous growth and is far from sup--
porting the level of per capita consumption that could be realized in its
present stage of development, given the resources that are available, because
the production of broilers has out-paced the marketing and distribution sys-
tem of the industry.
21.       The first occasion on which export policy was ever brought forward
regarding broilers was in the spring of 1975 when poultry producer organiza-
tions met with the MIinistry of Agriculture to discuss their demaands for export
subsidies to ship abroad the excessive stocks of broilers that were glutting
the market. The Government agreed to give every consideration to the problem.
22.       COTTA apparently has made studies on the possibilities of exporting
to the European markets and reached the conclusion tnat it was not practic-
able because of the subsidies received by poultry producers in the EEC. As a
matter of fact, subsidies are a constant subject of controversy among the
EEC member countries because of possible intra--EEC dumping of poultry and
eggs by producers with the highest subsidies. In early 1975. an US$8 million
subsidy was announced by the French Government for (a) supporting minimum
egg prices; (b) paying hen slaughter subsidies and (c) maintaining cold
storage stocks of broilers held off the market. Although the purpose of the
subsidies is to bolster prices, those payments might in effect enable recip-
ients to ship poultry to other member countries at lower prices. freeing the
national economy of sorie burdensome surplus commodity inventories.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 6
23.        It is possible that earlier Brazilian efforts to study export mar-
kets were perhaps a bit premature in arriving at negative conclusions. An
important aspect of trade in poultry products is that a substantial propor-
tion of imports into European markets is now composed of special cuts, such
as legs, breast filets, boneless meat (rolls and such) and canned specialties.
These products are priced much higher than whole broilers and apparently
yield margins sufficient to enable exporters to overcome tariff barriers.
Some 80% or more of U.S. poultry meat exports now consist of chicken parts
and products. The emerging pattern and practices parallel those in the beef
trade. Special cuts are especially packaged, prepared, and shipped according
to specific customer requirements.
24.        Average unit values reflect the value added of preparation and of
elimination of waste or less desirable parts. On the cost side, more effi-
cient handling and substantial weight reduction are important benefits. In
the U.S., the problem created by large residual volume of less attractive
parts has been overcome by special packaging and special promotions in the
domestic market.
25.        Negligible quantities of poultry offal exports have been recorded
in recent years. There apparently is good demand for poultry liver, but the
international trade in poultry offal in general does not hold much promise.
Export data for poultry offal are shown below:
(Tons)     US$O000    US$/ton
France and Italy       14           6.8        486
United Kingdom          4           1.5        375
26.        Product Quality.  The basic conditions for export, uniform quality,
Federal inspection of production, modern, sanitary conditions of processing,
and steady dependable supply, are being established as the structure of the
industry changes. Those changes are briefly described below as they relate
to the export trade.
27.        In the State of Sao Paulo, there were 428 poultry plants in opera-
tion in early 1975. The DIPOA program now being implemented in that state
aims to bring the number of poultry plants down by eliminating small uneconomic
units that cannot be renovated and modernized to meet DIPOA standards. More-
over, the inspection task would be impossible to manage. Efficient marketing
and cold storage of the output would neither be feasible nor economic with a
fractional and dispersed processing industry. Presently, there are about 10
plants in Sao Paulo that meet the criteria for the formation of an efficient,
well-organized poultry industry. In that state alone, therefore, 25 new
plants must be constructed in the next five years in order to (a) replace the
plants being closed, (b) supply an expanded home market, and (c) support
possible development of export trade. Each new plant with the dimensions of,
say, the COTIA plant described below -- with capacity of 50,000 birds per day,



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 7
requiring fixed investment of US$300 per 1,000-bird throughput -- would require
US$15 million of capital funds.
28.       The COTIA plant in Jaguare is a typical modern poultry plant from
which broilers are shipped to all major consumption centers by refrigerated
truck. A portion of its output could be shifted to the export trade with
minor modifications to accommodate new product lines. Present output is
35,000 birds per day -- to be expanded to 50,000 in 1976. Annual rates
would be 9.5 million to 13.5 million broilers per year, which, at an average
dressed-out weight per bird of 1.4 kg, would amount to 13,500 to 18,900 tons
per year.
29.       At the COTIA plant, condemnations were said to average 2% of the
through-put. That compares favorably with the U.S. broiler industry where
condemnations in 1974 amounted to 1.96% and 2.54% of total output in 1973.
That record speaks well for the quality of production in Sao Paulo farms.
30.       Trade Barriers.  The EEC Commission is frequently adjusting tariffs
on third country imports as internal supply conditions change. Rates vary
widely according to type of product and origin. Rates for U.S. products are
high in comparison with imports from some other origins because the U.S. is
a major supplier. The actual incidence on the trade may vary, however, de-
pending on unit import values. The most recent EEC supplementary levies on
poultry imports since February 1975 are the following:



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 8
US$Cent/kg
Poultry              - boned cuts                         USA                 91.0
Turkeys              - breasts and cuts of breasts        USA                 45.5
- drumsticks and cuts of
drumsticks                     All origins          39.0
- legs                               USA                 11.7
Live poultry         - fowls                              All origins         13.0
- turkeys                            Hungary or
Bulgaria          16.9
- guinea fowls                       All origins         32.5
Dead poultry         - fowls (83%, 70% and 65%)           Romania             52.0
Other /1            13.0
- ducks (85%, 70% and 63%)           Hungary             13.0
- turkeys                            Hungary
Czechoslovakia    39.0
Other /2
- guinea fowls                       Hungary             32.5
Halves or quarters  - fowls                               Romania             52.0
Other               13.0
- ducks                              Hungary             13.0
- turkeys                            Hungary,
Czechoslovakia    39.0
Other                6.5
/1   Except Poland and Bulgaria.
/2   Except Poland.
Source: Agra Europe February 28, 1975.
Prices
31.       Broiler prices follow a well-defined seasonal pattern, with minor
variations from year to year. The trough of the annual cycle usually occurs
in February-March and, rarely, in April. The peak quotations usually are
recorded in August-September. Typical highs and lows in wholesale broiler
prices in 1974 are shown below.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 9
Sao Paulo                      Guanabara (Rio)
(liveweight)      Cr$/kg        (dressedweight)
February   3.2                  April   5.6
Aughts     4.8                  Sept.   7.8
Source: Avicultura Brasileira, No. 136, April 1975.
32.       In May 1975, wholesale broiler prices were down to Cr$7.00 for
fresh broilers and CR$6.00 for frozen broilers. Those prices compare with
U.S. prices of Cr$ 6.74 in 1974 and Cr$7.76 in 1973 at the wholesale level.
In the U.S., the feed price/cost ratio was so unfavorable in 1973/74 that a
drastic reduction of production occurred, resulting in an uptrend in price in
1975. However, with lower feed prices in prospect, 1976 broiler supplies
should be more abundant and prices should decline. In Brazil, broiler prices
declined in 1975 due to the surfeit of beef supplies as export trade was
curtailed. Prices are expected to recover slightly during the low season of
the annual beef cycle in the latter part of the year.
33.       At current prices, the producer's margin shown in the calculations
below are not sufficient to cover fixed costs because the transportation
costs -- the main indirect cost factor --absorb a large part of that margins
are shown below:
 ______---Cr$/kg------------
COTIA     Frozen Poultry Plant
Wholesale price            7.30            6.00
Packaging                  0.20            0.20
Processing margin          0.60            0.60
Producer price             6.50             5.20
Producer margin            1.05 /1          0.75 /1
Cost of production         4.45
/1   Includes transportation, handling.
Source: COTIA.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 4-3
Page 10
34.       European wholesale prices are mainly in a similar range.  Quotations
on the Continent in the spring of 1975 are listed below:
(Cr$/kg)
Germany             4.80
Denmark             4.87
U.K.                5.30
Netherlands 5.92 - 6.06
Belgium             6.05
Italy               6.05
France              7.22
Source: Agra Europe, London.
35.       European retail prices are likely to be similar to Brazilian levels,
judging from the range of wholesale prices. In the U.S., however, retail
prices appear to be slightly higher. U.S. and Brazilian retail prices are
compared in the table below:
----- Cr$ per kg -----
Year          Brazil /1         U.S. /2
1972              5.25            8.54
1973              7.02           10.51
1974              8.59            9.88
1975             10.00
Sources:  /1   SUNAB, prices in Guanabara (Rio).
/2   USDA.



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-MNUSTRTES CREDTT PROJIECT
Poultry in the Project Area (1973)
Inspected                                          Inspected
1,000             1,000              Slaughter            1,000         1,000            Slaughter
Birds  - -         Cr$       2(Birds)                      Birds         Cr$              (Birds)    %
Brazil                     271,676          2 2244 396   100    52,231,908   100    9 458  100  151 833  100   1,146,059   100
Project Area               217,2h5    80   i_______       z                   i' _752,231,908   10-0   5,8   -2   8f7   1,146 059   100
South                       86 690    32      596,580    27    18,843,302    36    3,738   40   55,130   36           93087       81
TaFrana                  36,595    13      261,291    12       3,869,937      7       835    9   10,924    7        14,716      1
Santa Catarina          15,425      6      100,572      4    14,670,604    28    1,825   19   32,338   21          916,159    80
Pio Grande do Sul        34,670    13      23h,717    11         303,861      1    1,078   12   11,868    8           -         -
Southeast                  114 147    42      896 36               388,506    6       1,807   19   25,498    j        216,254    19
minas uerais               27,142    10      24,821    11       1, 3,791               797   T       9,337               280
Espirito Santo            5,127     2       28,813      1     1,649,086       3      194    2    2,555    2           -         _
Rio de Janeiro /2        15,541     6      121,223      5     2,672,213       5      210    2    3,103    2            790      -
Sao Paulo                66,337    24      501,507    23    27,231,416    52         606    7   10,503    7        215,184    19
Center-West                 16 408      6     174,682      8                     -       38           5093    4          -         -
M~{ato-Grosso             6,270      2       3,575      3          _          _      223    2    3,632    2           _         _
Goias                     9,247      3     101,344      5          -          -      110    1    1,3 9    1           _         _
Federal District            891     1        9,763      -          _          _         5    -        12    -
/1 Includes turkeys, ducks, geese.
/2 Includes old states of Rio de J"neiro and Guanabara.
Source: IBGE and DIPOA                                                                                                             >
August 1975                                                                                                                       1- tli



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Grain Processing
1.        Agro-industries Credit Project I emphasized processing oilseed,
particularly soybean, for oil and its by-products for the export market.
More recent Government restrictions on the export of oilseed meal and the
expansion of beef, pork and poultry industries have added a new dimension
to this sub-sector, which is closely associated with the balanced concentrate
feed industry of which the producers of meat, particularly pork (Appendix 2-2)
and poultry (Appendix 2-3), largely depend.
2.        Although soybean continues to dominate oilseed production in Brazil,
other sources of oil, meal and cake also represent a significant part of the
domestic market and retain a minor part of the export market, the main ones
being peanuts and cottonseed.
3.        Castor beans are beginning to gain in importance, and export possi-
bilities for castor oil seem to be positive. There have been some recent
indications of export possibilities also for avocado oil to be used in the
cosmetics industry, mainly in Europe. The use of avocado pulp resulting from
the oil-extracting process in the feed industry adds interest to this product,
particularly in states with large non-arable portions such as Espirito Santo,
Santa Catarina, and Minas Gerais.
4.        Peanuts, while diminishing in planted area as a result of the expan-
sion of soybean cultivation, and also in export volume, have increased in price
in recent years due to lack of offer in the international market. Peanut
production in 1973 reached 578,000 tons in the project area, representing 98%
of the total production in Brazil.
5.        Estimates by the Instituto Nacional de Desenvolvimento Industrial
(INDI) forecast production of 157,000 tons of oil in 1975 and 188,000 tons
in 1980. Production of peanut cake for the same years is estimated at 208,000
tons and 252,000 tons, respectively. Exports of peanut oil are expected to
reach 100,000 tons by 1980.
6.        Cotton production in 1973 reached 1,372 tons in the project area,
representing 80.3% of the total production in the country. The Instituto
Nlacional do Desenvolvimento Industrial (INDI) estimates place the production
of cottonseed oil at 166,000 tons in 1975 and 177,000 tons in 1980. Produc-
tion of cottonseed cake is estimated at 498,000 tons in 1975 and 531,000 tons
in 1980.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
7.        The large 1973 and 1974 castor bean crops, estimated at 420,000
tons and 540,000 tons, respectively, are expected to be reduced in 1975 as
a result of lower producer prices. Steps are being taken, however, to slow
down the decline in prices, and the Government, under a purchase-stock financ-
ing arrangement with producers, withheld an estimated 40,000 tons of castor
oil from the market in 1974 to be released in late 1975. Forecasts for 1975
call for about a 375,000-ton production, and export shipments of castor oil
are estimated at 175,000 tons. These figures are consistent with estimates
by the Plano Director Portuario Nacional, based on observed trends, which
place exports of industrial oils, particularly castor oil, at 160,000 tons
in 1975 and 214,000 tons in 1980. These figures do not include soybean or
peanut oil.
8.        A study of exports in 1973 and the first six months of 1974 con-
ducted by Banco do Brasil indicates a considerable increase in castor and
other vegetable oils and decreases in peanut and soybean oil exports as a
result of increased domestic demand and official restrictions:
Exports in        Exports in        Average US$
thousand tons    US$1,000 fob       Price per ton
1973     1974    1973    1974    1973          1974
Peanut oil, raw           38.1      19.5   16,236  18,462  425.85  1,948.37
Castor oil, raw           48.0      94.1   44,175  88,648  919.91    942.21
Soybean oil, raw           9.1        -     2,890      -    317.09       -
Soybean oil, refined      14.3        .1    3,724        8  260.71    727.27
Other vegetable oils      10.5      40.5    2,027  31,658  123.97    780.91
9.        To facilitate treatment of both aspects of the sub-sector, that of
oilseed processing and feed processing, this annex has been divided into two
appendices, one dealing with the oilseed processing industry in general and
with soybean processing in particular (Appendix 3-1) and one covering the
production of balanced and concentrated animal feed (Appendix 3-2).



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Soybean Processing
A. Production
1.        Soybean has continued to dominate oilseed production in Brazil, the
1973 crop reaching more than 5 million tons in 1973 (Table 1) with average
yields of 1,386 kg/ha. The Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social (IPEA)
predicts soybean yields of up to 1,500 kg/ha in 1980, provided seed is carefully
selected and improved agricultural practices are employed. Recent policies of
subsidized credit for fertilizers and liming, as well as for special programs
to incorporate vast areas of lands suitable for soybean cultivation with
improved agricultural practices, may have a significant impact on future
soybean production.
2.        Exports of soybean products have been increasing in spite of lower-
ing prices in the last few years. Soybean oil has been kept for the domestic
market, but grain exports reached 1,786,000 tons; meal, 1,581,000 tons, and oil,
30,500 tons in 1973, the last year in which significant exports of oil took
place. Studies made by Escritorio Tecnico de Planejamento (PLANAVE), based on
the assumption that soybean oil exports will continue as a consequence of in-
creased production and processing, indicate a production of 11 million tons by
1980 and 15.6 million tons by 1985, with corresponding consumption projections
of 6.3 million tons and 8.9 millions tons, respectively. These figures indi-
cate exportable surpluses of 4.5 million tons in 1980 and 6.7 million in 1985
(Table 2). These totals, however, will be affected by increasing consumption
in the States of Goias and Mato Grosso, for which no estimates have been made.
3.        Expansion of the feed industry as a result of improved poultry and
hog production and processing constitutes an important component in the
domestic market for soybean and soybean products. Other potential uses of
soybean oil which have not as yet been developed in Brazil also contribute
to an optimistic forecast of soybean marketing and, consequently, of sustained
incentive for increased production.
4.        A study of the evolution of planted area in soybean carried out by
the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (IBGE) in 1974 showed
that Rio Grande do Sul's contribution to the global planted area decreased
from 90.5% in 1955 to 53.9% in 1974. In compensation, however, states which
were producing no soybean in 1955, such as Parana, Minas Gerais, Goias and
2Iato Grosso, contributed 26.1%, 0.9%, 2.1% and 3.4%, respectively, to the
total planted area in the country in 1974.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 2
B. The Industry
Structure
5.        The oilseed processing industry in Brazil is composed of a few
very large companies that dominate the market and a large number of medium-
and small-sized industries that generally produce crude oil for export or
sell their product locally for further refining. Seven large companies
manufacture 60% of the vegetable oil in Brazil and, of these, three are
international companies and four are Brazilian. All of the companies have
multi-plant operations, which allow them to produce a variety of oils, depend-
ing on the production of raw material in the different locations. They manu-
facture a complete range of products such as refined oil, shortenings, crude
oil and cake or meal for both domestic and export consumption. The medium-
and small-sized plants are owned by individuals, cooperatives or companies
and range in size from cottage industries to well equipped modern small- or
medium-scale plants.
6.        In 1969, there were 410 companies registered as vegetable oil
producers, with 37% located in the States of Sao Paulo, Parana, Santa Catarina
and Rio Grande do Sul. Minas Gerais had 3Z aud the balance was divided among
the other states. Many of the registered plants are specialty oil producers
located in the northeast section of the country to utilize local raw material.
7.        The capacity of the individual plants varies from 30 tons per day
to 800 to 1,000 tons per 24-hour day. The larger size plants are located in
the southeast where the major oilseed now being industrialized is soy, which
in 1974 represented 63% of Brazil's total oil production.
8.        One of the major problems in the past has been under utilization
of the production facilities, especially in the smaller scale industries using
mechanical methods of extraction. A study was made in Rio Grande do Sul
covering a period from 1969 to 1971 and during these three years, the small
plants operated at 58.4% of their capacity, while the medium size and larger
factories had 78.7% and 81.5%, respectively. In the northeast, the situation
was much more acute for in 1969 they operated at only 34% of their capacity.
9.        Part of the problem can be attributed to sizing the mechanical
extraction equipment to meet peak seasonal demands in the specialty product
fields, which tends to misrepresent the actual annual production statistics
since the plants only operate during the harvesting period. In the south,
a lack of capital to purchase and store soybeans for off-season production
causes a similar under utilization, which could be corrected through proper
financing.
Plant Operations
10.       Most modern plants in Brazil receive soybeans in bulk trucks.  The
trucks are weighed upon arrival at the plant, after which the beans are dis-
charged onto conveyors for preliminary cleaning and drying to bring moisture



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 3
down to about 13% before storing in silos. When required for production, the
beans are removed from storage, cleaned again to eliminate any residual waste
material, weighed, and sent through a cracking mill and a dehuller, to remove
seed covers. The material then goes through a conditioner to bring the moisture
level down to about 10% to 11% and a flaking mill that flattens it prior to
extraction operations.
11.       Four methods of extraction are used in Brazil -- continuous solvent;
mechanical and solvent extraction in a continuous process; a mechanical and
soLvent extraction by batch processing; and mechanical extraction. Most of
the large modern plants use the continuous solvent extraction method, which
has a high original equipment cost and requires a higher degree of technology,
but produces a 3.5% to 4% higher oil yield over the mechanical process. The
mixed mechanical-solvent process is used by the older large and medium-sized
mills and by a few modern smaller mills. Because of a lack of investment
capital, most of the small mills use the less efficient mechanical extraction
process.
12.       After extraction that separates the oil from the cake, mills using
the solvent method send the cake to a desolventizer. The solvent thus removed
is then condensed, washed, dehumidified, filtered, and reused. The cake from
both the solvent and mechanical process is then dried, cooked, ground and,
in some instances, pelletized for the domestic and export markets, where it
is bought for animal feed.
13.       Cake for human consumption goes through a desolventizing and
deodorizing process. Then the non-protein constituents are removed select-
ively, leaving a solid residue. This residue is classified into three groups
according to protein content: flour and grits, having a 40% to 50% protein
content; concentrates containing 70% protein; and isolated, with from 90%
to 95% protein.
14.       Obtaining experienced management in soybean milling and oil extrac-
tion is less of a problem than it is in some of the other industries, for
the larger oil plants have trained many excellent technicians who would be
willing to change positions provided that they were given sufficient incen-
tives in the smaller and medium-sized mills.
15.       The number of personnel required varies with the amount of mechani-
zation in the mill and the type of finished products that are manufactured.
Modern mills can be highly automated, from raw material reception through
grinding the cake for animal feed; thus, manual labor would be required only
for discharging the beans from the receiving trucks and in the packaging and
warehousing of cake or meal. The balance of the operations would be handled
by technical personnel or supervisors checking the movement of the product
during the process. Less automated mills, including medium- and small-sized
units, require a greater amount of labor, ranging from 1.5 to three people
per ton of raw material, depending on the handling and processing methods used.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 4
Equipment
16.       Equipment for oil mills can be grouped into four major types -- pre-
paration, extraction, refining, and packaging. Preparation equipment consists
of items such as conveyors, scales, bean cleaning, drying-cracking or crushing,
drying and flaking. Extraction machinery can either be mechanical or solvent,
with the latter requiring additional equipment to recoup the solvent remain-
ing in the cake. In the refining process, the crude oil, depending on its
ultimate use, is normally cleaned, either in a centrifuge or filter press,
neutralized, clarified, and deodorized. Packaging machinery selection depends
on the finished product; thus, meal is usually ground or made into pellets,
liquid oils are packed into cans or bottles, while margarines can be packed
into plastic, cartons or cans.
17.       Brazil can supply much of the slower speed preparation machinery
but imported equipment might be advisable for the higher output per hour
production. Mechanical extraction machinery is manufactured locally, and
solvent extraction lines are imported. Most of the refining equipment can
be obtained in Brazil, though here too, higher capacity, sophisticated equip-
ment for the larger plants would probably be imported. Local packaging is
available for most applications, but high-speed lines, if required, would
normally be purchased abroad.
18.       Many of the Brazilian suppliers are either affiliates of foreign
companies or work under some form of licensing arrangement; consequently,
their equipment is comparable to that found in the more advanced countries.
Specialized items with limited demand in Brazil would have to be imported.
C. Marketing
19.       The three oilseeds which would be processed under the project would
be soybean, cottonseed, and peanut, the principal products of which would be,
namely, cake or meal and vegetable oil. Cake and meal are utilized mostly
as feed, while vegetable oil is used for human consumption.
20.       Among the three principal oilseeds, soybeans are preferred because
of the high yield of meal as compared with other oilseeds. The relative
yields are summarized below:
Soybeans      Peanuts        Cottonseed
_______________ %-------------------
Meal                   79            56               69
Oil                    19            41               28
Protein content        45            52               42



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 5
21.       The high meal yield of soybeans is combined with high protein con-
tent. Low oil yield is also an attractive charactieristic of soybeans because,
during periods of heavy demand for oilseed meals, marketing of oils becomes
a problem. There are competing oils in the world market which do not yield
meal counterparts desirable for livestock feeds because of low protein content
or high fiber content, e.g., palm, coconut, or because of toxic properties,
e.g., rapeseed. Therefore, there is relatively more scope for expansion of
markets for the desirable meals.
22.       Soybean meal accounts for 61% of world production of oilseed meals,
while soybean oil comprises 20% of world output. The likelihood is that the
importance of soybeans will increase, reflecting the massive output gain fore-
seen in Brazil and experimental work on soybean production in other regions
of the world.
Domestic Market
23.       There are two main sectors that consume soybeans -- the balanced
feed industry that utilizes meal and the edible oils industry that utilizes
the oil. In the first instance, soybeans now are the lowest cost form of
high protein input. Fishmeal is a direct competitor in other countries
because of its high protein content -- 65% by volume as compared with 45%
for soybean meal. However, since Brazil does not produce large volumes of
fishmeal, soybeans are the principal domestic source of the high protein
component of animal feeds.
24.       The doubling of output of the balanced feed industry since 1970
reflects the demand for feeds generated largely by the dynamic growth of
broiler and egg production. Trend toward production of specially bred meat
hogs with improved techniques in swine husbandry also has supported the
rapid growth of the balanced feed industry.
25.       Due to its growth in recent years, soybean oil has preempted the
leading position in the edible fat and oils market, being the lowest priced
source of oil for food preparation. Its closest competitors are peanut oil
and cottonseed oil in Brazil; as in most other countries, peanut oil is a
preferred oil but is higher priced and its output has been static in recent
years. Cottonseed oil, a by-product of cotton gins, is limited by cotton
production and its supply varies with the cotton crop. In hydrogenated form,
soybean and cottonseed oils are the basic materials for margarine production
where they compete on a price basis.
26.       The domestic feed industry doubled its output from 2.5 million to
5.2 million tons in the 1970-72 period. With about 35% of the average feed
mills' requirements consisting of soybean meal, about 875,000 tons to 1.8
million tons would have been consumed (Appendix 5-2). The bean equivalent
of those volumes would be 1.1 million to 2.3 million tons. Soybean oil avail-
abilities based on that volume of meal output would amount to 209,000 tons in
1970 and 437,000 tons in 1974. In 1970, only 2,650 tons of exports were
recorded and, in 1974, 2,300 tons were shipped abroad. Therefore, 206,250 tons



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 6
in 1970 and 434,700 tons in 1974 would have been available for domestic dis-
tribution, or about 2.2 kg and 4.2 kg per capita in the respective years.
Soybean oil availabilities are likely to be absorbed by the domestic market
for several years, until new processing capacity goes on stream, and substan-
tial increments to soybean oil supply result.
27.       The balanced feed industry is reviewed in Appendix 5-2 and projec-
tions for feed consumption requirements to 1984 are shown.  Assuming an overall
industry average of 35% by volume as an input and that practically all the
peanut and cottonseed cake are exported, soybean requirements in Brazil may
be summarized as follows:
Total         Soybean
Feedstuff         Meal
Output           Input
---- million tons -
1975                           6.1              2.1
1980                          13.0              4.6
1984                          23.9              8.4
1975 to 1985
Increase                      17.8              6.3
% increase                   192              100
Growth rate (%)               11.3             11.6
Source: Sindicato de Industrias Balanceadas do Estado
de Sao Paulo (SIRBESP).
28.       Soybean meal extraction rates in Brazil are averaging around 79%.
On that basis, the soybean requirement of the balanced feeds industry, given
the prevailing mix of formulas, can be estimated.
Soybeaft          Soybean
Meal Output        Equivalent
------ million tons --------
1975                             2.1               2.7
1980                             4.6               5.8
1985                             8.4              10.6
1975/85
Increase                         6.3               7.9
% increase                     200               193
Growth rate t%)                 11.6              11.3
Source: SIRBESP.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 7
29.       Since soybean oil is a by-product of meal processing, its output can
be determined by the extraction rate prevailing in Brazil -- which currently
is 19% by weight. The estimated availabilities of soybean oil in the years
ahead resulting from soybean meal processing for the balanced feed industry
are summarized below; it should be noted that the quantities cited are only
partial availabilities, because there will be additional oil supply from
processing of meal for export.
Soybeans Processed       Oil Extracted
---- million tons ------------
1975                           2.7                       0.5
1980                           5.8                       1.1
1985                          10.6                       2.0
1975/85
Increase                       7.9                       1.5
% increase                   193                       300
Growth rate (%)               11.3                       14.9
Source: SIRBESP.
30.       The indicated soybean oil availabilities in 1980, based on projected
national feedstuff requirements of 1.1 million tons, exceeds forecast total
vegetable oil consumption by 300,000 to 500,000 tons. Some of that excess
will undoubtedly be absorbed by the domestic market as new product development
opens new fields of utilization. However, it appears that export markets
wilL need to be found, either for surplus soybean oil or for the peanut and
cottonseed oil that soybean oil would displace in the home market.
31.       One of the sub-projects proposed under Agro-industries Credit Project
I calls for the establishment in Sao Paulo of a large enterprise for the manu-
facture of Texturized Vegetable Protein (TVP). Extensive research has already
been conducted at ITAL in Campinas, based on earlier research and development
work in the U.S. It is therefore of interest to gain a perspective on this
relatively new Brazilian product in older markets, since present processes
for TVP are based on soybeans as the raw material. Its ramification in the
soybean and livestock industries will be important.
32.       In the U.S., renewed R & D emphasis is being placed on TVP because
of the high prices of meat. According to USDA, 25,000 tons of this product
were produced in 1972 and sold mainly to the meat processing industry. Soya
could thus present considerable competition for beef. In the U.S., it is
being used in sausage manufacture at a 25:75 ratio with beef.
33.       The USDA estimates that in 1973, 36,000 tons of "soya meat" were
sold and by 1980, this figure could be in excess of 800,000 tons. If this
forecast proves correct, vegetable protein will, by the end of this decade,



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 8
represent the equivalent of around 90% of U.S. beef and veal imports in 1972.
That, of course, implies substantial import substitution, but beef import
volume will still be large because overall demand will have expanded consider-
ably by that date.
34.       Meat industry forecasts are that 10% to 21% of the meat of ready-
to-eat meat dishes, e.g., frozen TV dinners, will be replaced by TVP by 1980.
Even if the lower limit of that forecast materializes, the U.S. meat industry
would require 2 million fewer head of cattle, 4 million less hogs, and 360,000
less sheep than otherwise would be the case. That trend should not impinge
on prospects for cooked frozen beef exports from Brazil. The opportunity for
promotion of all "all beef" products should enhance the marketing outlook for
Brazilian exporters.
35.       Predictions for the European market in 1985 are that 2.7 million
tons of meat will be replaced by TVP. That quantity is about equal to the
aggregate beef consumption forecast in Brazil for 1980. That volume also
exceeds total world trade in fresh, chilled or frozen beef, and veal in 1972.
36.       TVP is an ideal, low-cost source of protein for the lower income
classes. Moreover, cheaper protein sources will become more important in
Brazil as compared with the North American and European markets. Much will
depend on the success of product promotion of the initial enterprises start-
ing up production in Brazil in the next few years.
Export Market
37.       Exports of soybeans had increased from 290,000 tons in 1970 to an
estimated 2.8 million tons in 1974, approximately a ten-fold gain in four
years. In that short time, export revenues from soybeans rose from US$27
million to US$585 million, or 21 times. The trend in world prices enabled
exporters to obtain higher unit values, which rose from US$93 per ton to
US$215 per ton, a gain of 131% (Table 3).
38.       Exports of soybean meal, which already had reached a level of
489,000 tons in 1970, grew only about four-fold to 2 million tons in 1974.
Export value rose from US$41 million to US$406 million, nearly 10 times
greater, in the latter year. Unit prices of meal were up 70% during this
period, from US$89 to US$149 per ton (Table 5).
39.       Soybean oil exports have followed a rather erratic pattern, going
from 2,650 tons to 61,000 tons in 1973 and down to 2,300 tons in 1974 due to
restriction of exports imposed in late 1973 to ensure adequate supplies of
edible oils in the home market. That restriction was removed in late 1974 so
that oil exports may again continue an upward trend (Table 4).
40.       Exports of soybeans in 1975 are estimated in a range up to 4.2
million tons. Meal exports are as yet an unknown quantity, but should at
least equal the 1974 volume. The faster pace in expansion of soybean exports
reflects the inability of the processing industry in building new extraction



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 9
and refining facilities to keep abreast of the explosive growth in production.
Therefore, a larger proportion is being exported as beans. Greater interval
demand from the feed industry is also taxing the processing capacity of the
oilseed industry. However, sub-projects in the pipeline should add greatly
to the supply of meal for domestic and export requirements.
41.       The bulk of Brazil's soybean and meal exports has been going to
European markets, with the Netherlands, Germany and Italy being the most
important buyers. The United Kingdom, Spain and Denmark, however, show
promise for further market development, and exports to Japan may rise, al-
though much depends on that country's trade with China, which, like the U.S.
and Brazil, is a major producer of soybeans (Table 3).
42.       The soybean meal and cake category was second in importance in the
export trade in 1973, but fell to third place in 1974/75 because of the
abrupt rise in the world sugar market. From 1976 onward, the soybean group
is expected to have second place among Brazil's exports. The ranking in value
for the 1973/76 period is as follows:
1973    1974    1975    1976
------ US$ billiona --------
Coffee                           1.3     1.0      1.3     1.7
Sugar                            0.6     1.3      1.3     1.3
Soybeans, cake and meal          0.9     0.9      1.0     1.4
43.       Although peanut production has been static in recent years, and it
has been overshadowed by the soybean sector, as a secondary oilseed it holds
considerable importance as a foreign exchange earner. In 1972, peanut ex-
ports were valued at US$8.8 million, peanut meal exports at US$85.7 million
and peanut oil, the only large edible oil export, at US$27.4 million. This
commodity therefore accounted for total export earnings of US$126.7 million
in that year (Table 5). Peanut exports in all forms have higher unit values
than soybeans. Comparative trends in world prices of the major oilseed meals
are shown in Table 6.
44.       Cottonseed meal exports have fluctuated widely, following the
course of cotton production, but volume has been lower than the peak recorded
in 1969.  Cottonseed oil has been consumed entirely within the country since
that year (Table 7).
45.       Since the peak period of world demand for oilseeds and products in
1973/74, there has been a gradual easing of market conditions due to (a) better
crops in the U.S. and some other areas, and (b) lighter demand reflecting the
general economic situation and its effects on livestock production. The con-
tracting market for oilseeds and meal has caused a temporary tightness in the
vegetable oils market. Lower production of meals causes a concomitant reduc-
tion of oil supplies since the two products are linked together - oils being
a by-product of oilseed processing for meal.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 10
46.       The medium-term prospects for oilseeds have become difficult to
assess because of the massive grain purchases by the USSR in July 1975. The
resultant reevaluation of exportable surplus stocks in the main grain-
producing countries may cause a run-up in prices of cereals just as they
seemed to stabilize. The sharp decline in grain prices since 1974 had
improved feed-price ratios for livestock and poultry producers in North
America and Europe, so that the tendency to reduce herds and flocks ap-
parently was about to be reversed. That would have augured well for the
soybean export trade in particular.  However, because of the sharply rising
prices of grains, the outlook is for possibly a more modest growth of live-
stock and poultry and, consequently, for meals and for soybean meal in par-
ticular.  The other side of the coin is the greater likelihood for a continued
strong market for oils as the slower expansion of meal output will be a limit-
ing factor in oil supply.
47.       Over the longer term, there will be a basic uptrend in Brazil's
exports of soybeans and meal, based on increased demand for meat in all major
import markets. An illustrative projection of the trend of exports shown
in Table 8 indicates that soybean exports can be expected to rise from 4.0
million tons in 1976 to 5.4 million tons in 1980, an increase of 1.4 million
tons, or 35%. An average annual increase of 350,000 tons is projected. At
estimated export values of US$212 to US$318 per ton, export revenues should
expand from US$0.9 billion to US$1.5 billion in the interim to 1980.
48.       Soybean meal and cake exports are expected to follow a similar
growth path, going from 2.9 million tons in 1976 to 3.8 million tons in 1980,
an increase of 0.9 million tons, or 31%. At projected prices of US$174 to
US$309 from 1976 to 1980, export revenues generated by these exports would
expand from US$0.5 billion to US$1.1 billion. Soybeans, meal and oil could
well preempt the positions of coffee and of sugar as the leading export
commodity.
Marketing System
49.       Domestic and export trade in soybeans is handled by commodity trad-
ing houses, brokers and aqgrnts, most of whom are engaged in many commodity
lines, such as coffee, cotton, and corn. The principal international commodity
houses have branches in Brazil and, in many instances, processing subsidiaries
as well. In the domestic trade, the smaller brokers and agents compete with
the large firms and cooperatives. In the interior, intermediaries perform the
function of crop collectors for smaller, less accessible farms. Processors
which may be independent firms or connected with large trading houses, may
contract directly with producers for their crops.
50.       In the export field, larger cooperatives function in a manner simi-
lar to that of large trading companies, maintaining their own agents and
connections or even branch offices in important entrepots as well as member-
ship on the principal commodity exchanges such as the Chicago Board of Trade
and the London Terminal Market. Cooperatives service private processors,
shippers and international brokers and agents, while competing with them for
external markets.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 11
51.       The Companhia Brasileira de Exportacao e Comerciao (COBEC), the
Government foreign trading agency, performs export sales service for the
Government or for private Brazilian firms. However, private firms and
cooperatives are also authorized by the Carteira do Comercio Exterior (CACEX)
to conduct hedging operations on foreign commodity exchanges to protect
forward export commitments.
52.       The processing industry is highly concentrated, with seven companies
accounting for 60% of the soybean oil output (para 5). Several large proces-
sors are subsidiaries of the international commodity houses. Vertical integ-
ration in edible oils processing and marketing, and also in balanced feeds
manufacture and marketing, among the large enterprises dominating the industry
has important implications for domestic marketing patterns. Relatively few
brands of consumer products share the bulk of consumer sales in the major con-
sumption centers. In fact, only the largest companies have the resources to
package and promote their brands and merchandise them effectively. Market
penetration by new firms basing their production on edible oils must be based
on product innovation to overcome the advantages held by the established en-
terprises. The important aspects from the broader national viewpoint in this
situation is for Federal agencies such as the Superintendencia Nacional de
Abastecimento (SUNAB) and the Comissao Interministerial de Precos (CIP) to
assure that competitive pricing is maintained to widen the consumption for
edibLe oils to a maximum degree.
Prices
53.       In May 1975, soybean producers were receiving Cr$ 70 per 60 kg
(US$146 per ton). Since domestic marketing costs are for the account of the
producer, an average of Cr$ 20 for transport, handling, and such (US$42 per
ton) must be deducted from the producer price, leaving an actual farmgate
price of Cr$ 50, or US$104 per ton. Producers claim their break-even point
is about that level. A sufficient incentive to expand production would be
provided by a price of Cr$ 90 per 60 kg (US$188 per ton). However, the
latter figure would be quite close to the c.i.f. Europe quotation of US$207
(June! 1975), and marketing problems would have been encountered.
54.       The producers' claims appear justified on the basis of estimated
costs of production, which, this season, are about Cr$ 1,200/ha. On an
average yield of 1,500 kg/ha, costs would come to Cr$ 88/60 kg, a losing
proposition for farmers with that average yield or less. However, on
moderately well managed farms where yields could average 1,800 kg/ha or
higher, costs would work out to Cr$ 40/60 kg. For the latter farms, producer
prices around Cr$ 70 are remunerative and substantially higher prices could
bring large windfall profits. The course of soybean producer prices since
1968 is shown in Table 9.
55.       Peanut oil and meal will experience declining shares of the market
as the dynamic expansion of soybean output continues. Reasons for the static
conditions in the peanut sector can be discerned on examination of peanut
costs and producer prices. The cost/price relationship certainly favors soy-
bean growers.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Page 12
Peanut growing costs      :   Cr$ 2,560/ha
Yields                    :    1,300 - 2,200/ha
Average Unit Cost         :   Cr$ 1.97 - Cr$ 1.16/kg
Cr$ 49.23 - Cr$ 29.09/25 kg
Producer Price            :   Cr$ 33.00/25 kg
56.       It is claimed that the newer varieties of seed peanuts distributed
by the experimental station yield about 2.2 tons/ha, at which level peanut
production would be remunerative. However, at any level below the maximum,
the farmers would be switching out of peanuts. In any event, the seasonal
investment required per hectare is double that for soybeans. From that
standpoint alone, soybeans would hold more attraction for the farmer. The
trend of peanut producer prices since 1968 is shown in Table 10.
Model
57.       An indicative model for a soy bean processing plant is shown in
Table 11.



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDI PROJECT
Soybean Production,1967-1974
States                                                      Production ('000 tons)
1967/68        1968/69        1969/70         1970/71         1971/72         1972/73         1973/714
Rio Grande do Sul        432.58          7444.7          976.81        1,386.00        2,140.00       2,872.06         3,870.00
Santa Catarina            14.83           31.65           53.00           54.02           65.00          253.51          391.70
Parana                   163.20          213.58          368.ol          567.10          966.20        1,323.34        2,024.10
Sao Paulo                 39.33           61.01           90.09           93.60          222.00          331.19          522.00
Minas Gerais               0.36            o o.56          1.81           14.00           27.09           36.32           44.20
Mato Grosso                3.39            4.30            8.99           12.40           43.00          103.23          218.00
Goias                      1.50            1.89            9.82           41.95           60.00           89.70           81.20
Bahia                      o.76            0.02            0.02             -                              0.03             -
Espirito Santo              -               _
TOTAL               635-97        1,057.48        1,508.55        2,169.07       3,523.29        5,009.38         7,151.20
/1  Provisional data.
Sources:  IEA, EAGRI/SUPLAN-14A e Fundadao IBGE.
June 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Surpluses in the Project Area U1975-19P2)
(t000 tons)
1975   1976     1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    pL83    1984    1985
BRAZIL
Production            6,965   7,842   8,524   9,332  10,154  11,029  11,847  12,713  13,607  14,557  15,550
Consumption           3,771+  4,201+  4,664+  5,192+  5,689+  6,279+  6,733+  7,219+  7o741+  8,301+  8,898+
Exportable surplusBL 3,194   3,641   3,860   4,140   4,465   4,750    5,114  51.494   5W866   6,256   6,652
RID GRANDE DO SUJL
Production           3,941   4,382   4,800   5,233   5,648   6,O59   6,390   7,712   7,025   7,320   7s614
Consu.ption          1,700   1,898   2,106   2,378    ,5        ,  5   3,076   3 420   352Q   3,766  14,a5
Exportable surplus   2,241   2j,484   2,694   2,855   3003   31 4   3331t   422   3*505   3,514   3soy
SANTA CATARINA
Production              199     219     241      265     291     320      392     388      426     469      515
Consumption              89      99     109      122     135     150      161     172      184     196      21Q
Exportable surplus     110      120     222      143     156     170      235     216      242     273      305
PARhNA
Production            2,120   2,332   2,585   2,820-  3,095   3,413   3,752   4,132   4,537   4,998   5,450
Consumption           1,250   1,366   1,517   1s683   1,868   2,070   2,215   2,370    ,536   2,712   2,900
Exprrt'.ble surplus     870     966   1,068   1,137   1,227  1,343   1,537   1,762   2,001   2,286   2,550
SAO PAULO
Production              540     611      662     781     849      946   1,o0o   1,145   1,258   1,381   1,523
Consiswaption           692     748     807      871     9140  1,018   1,08   1,186   1,280   1,383   1,49$
Exportable surplus    -152      -137   -145    -90    -91   -  72               - -41   -  22   - 
IINAS <GERAIS
Production               60      90     125      138     151      166     183      201     221      244     268
Consumption              60      90     125      13      151      166     183      201     221      244     268
Exportable surplus        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -
GOIAoR /2
proIAuS12on              62      64       66      68      71       74      77       80      83       86      89
rroSScto                   43      44       45      47       49      51       53      55       57      59       61        |
,  Total exportablIe surpluses are affected by consumption in Goias and Mto Grosso.                                   N 
No consumption estimates.
Source:  PIANAVE.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND ACRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PkOJECT
Exports of Soybeans
Tons                                                   US$' 000 f.o.b.                                US$/Ton
1970        1971         1972         1973        1974         1970        1971        1972        1973         1974   1970    1971    1972      1973    1974
Germany                  28,710.2   41,818.2    148,768.8   314,435.3   544,773.3        2,697.3    4,746.0   17,981.7   83,967.9    119,031.3  94    113          121       267     218
East Germany            41,236.5      2,000.0    50,829.6                                3,918.9       228.0    6,305.5                             95    114       124
Spain                   38,582.2   44,991.8    150,080.0        8,981.0   288,628.0      3,599.1    5,113.5   18,668.2    3,557.7        55,846.8  93    115        124     396      193
Italy                   162,954.4   96,911.0    204,090.3   196,221.7   371,112.3        15,145.7   11,120.5   24,647.2   47,906.8    76,500.6  93    115           121      244     206
Netherlands                998.8      2,798.8    239,136.6   665,449.1   886,939.9          92.0       3WOO    30,037.8   179,841.9   187,198.8  92    118         126      270     211
Portugal                    284.0                  5,000.0    23,980.0         27.1          27.1                  640.0                  6,098.2  95               128              254
Belgium/Luxembourg                                18,537.9    88,565.8    77,018.0                                2,280.9   21,998.0    17,971.4                    123      248     233
Taiwan                                            35,118.7    92,136.5                                            4,395.7   35,961.7                                125      390
N. Korea                                          28,502.1    34,993.6                                            3,575.9    6,286.7                                125      180
Denmark                                           13,500.0    25,183.0   160,547.2                                1,621.8    6,821.7     38,541.4                   120      271     240
France                                            74,745.0    62,978.0    67,303.0                                9,365.4   16,061.2    16,890.0                    125      255     251
Japan                                             13,331.0   178,566.4    82,247.5                                1,569.5   49,602.5    16,562.2                    118      278     201
Norway                                            22,910.0    20,000.0    13,267.0                                2,710.9    4,560.0       2,602.9                  118      228     196
United Kingdom                                    25,087.6    11,300.0   138,730.7                                3,055.4    2,697.0    28,157.1                    122      239     203
Switzerland                                        1,818.4      3,654.0    39,853.0                                 224.9      518.9       9,450.3                  124      142     237
Israel                                                        47,326.3        629.0                                         18,920.2         122.3                           400     194
Venezuela                                                      36,341.1                                                     15,448.1                                         425
Finland                                                                     10,164.3                                                       1,981.3                                   195
Iraq                                                                        19,000.0                                                       4,095.6                                   216
Otherg                   16,857.3    24.906.0      5.806.9          7.0    19.874.0       1,603.9     2,771.3      847.4          2.7     3,971.7  95    Ill        146      386     200
Total           289,623.4  213,425.8  1,037,262.9  1,786,138.8  2,744,067.2    27,084.0   24,309.3  127,915.2  494,153.0    585,021.6  94    114            123      277     213
Source:  CACEX                                                                                                                                                                                 xu
July 1975



ANNEX 5
BRAZIL                                                Appendix 5-1
Table 4
SECOND ARO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Soybean Products - Exports, Imports and Apparent Domestic Consumption
(Quantities in '000 tons; total values in US$ millions; average prices in US$/ton)  A
Meal                                Cake                               Oil
Exports                                              --                           
Total     Average                   Total      Average                 Total     Average
Year          Quantity     Value       Prices     Quantity      Value       Prices    Quantity    Value        Prices
1964            41.3        2.b5        64.17       2.50         0.17       68.19
65            99.1        7.22        '(2.94      6.00         o.45       75.10
66           170.6       13.49        79-05      14.31         1.10       77.00
67           123.0       10.02        81.49       2.36         0.20       82.98
68           225.0       18.16        80.70       9.50         0.77       81.16
69           274.5       22.00        80.15      20.86         1.41       67.77
70           489.2       40.65        83.10      36.17         2.9b       82.46         2.65      0.77       289.oo
71 L         872.22      7b.07        89.51        -            -           -           6.59      2.22      3,36.62
72         1,405-3      152-35       108.41        -            -           -          59.44     14.54       244.54
73         1,581.5      422.64       267.24        -            -           -          61.4      23.80      387.70
74         2,724.1      406.46       149.21        -            -           -           2.3       1.91      830.04
Imports of Soybean Oil                                                                                                A
Apparent Domestic Consumption
Crude                              Refined                  Meal OilcakeL         Oil
Year          Quantity      Total     Average     Quantity      Total      Average        Quantity          Quantity
Value      Prices                   Value        Prices
1964             1.78       418       235.10         0,57         232      404.18          118.79             36.48
65             3.22       752       233.47         6.20       2,554      411.74          119.93             54.96
66             0.02          9      391-30        11.04       5,ob4      458.61          112.79             73-55
67              -            -         -          14.70       6,26b      427.62          192.5b            81.43
68              -            -         -           9.06       3,482      384.28          126.23             84.78
69              -            -         -           3.44       1,275      370.53          177.09            102.60
70              -            -         -           4.60       1,889      410.30          264.23           167.67
71              -            -         -                                                                      _
Ratios of Quantities
Meal & Cake                 Oil
Exports/        Exports/         Imports/
Production      Production       Consumption
Year
1964         26.9                              6.4
65         46.7                             17.1
66         62.1                             15.0
67         39.4                             16.1
66         65.0                             10.7
69         62.5                              3.4
70         66.5              1.6             2.7
71           -                 -              -
/1 No reported exports before 1970
/2 Cakes included
/3 No reported imports after 1966
I4 Production plus imports, less exports.
/5  Production data used were estimated from reported oil.  Production converted into meal and cake equivalet by
a factor of 81/17.
Sources: Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues.
CACEX/NUCEX, Brasil Exportacao, updated 1975.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Peanut Products--Exports and Apparent Domestic Consumption
(Quantities in '000 tons; total values in US$ '000; average prices in US$/topn)
ExPorts
Meal                      Cake                       Oil/i
Total  Average            Total Average              Total Average
Year  Quantit   Value  Price    Quantity Value Price          Quantity Value  Price
l96i-      .96    1,829   65.4i      n.a.    n.a.
65    115.99   8,191   70.62        5.80   447   77.08        -
66    149.42  11,228   75.15        5.16   403   78.06        -
67   140.94   11,030   78.26        7.45   615  82.56        7.79    1,794  230.27
68     99.10    7,603   76.72       3.71   298   80.24      n.a       n.a.    -
69    130.88    9,659   73.80       4.51  332   73.68        2.16      643  297.00
70    196.50   15,332   78.03       4.68   378  80.86       31.68    9,997  315.57
71/2 200.53   16,690   83.23         -      -      -        57.52   21,737  377.89
72    168.49   14,434   85.67        -      -      -        77.19   27,424  355.29
Ratios of Quantities (%)
Apparent Domestic Consumption/3                                    Export Production
Meal and Cake/4  Oil
(Q(Qty)                                             Meal & Cake         Oil
1964       45.64         41.55                                       38
65       60.46        102.88                                       67
66       62.02        122.28                                       71
67       50.37        104.41t                                      75               7
68       17.27         67.79                                       86
69       23.48         87.52                                      85                2
70       31.42         99.43                                       70              50
71
[l  No reported exports prior to 1966. No reported imports, specified as peanut oil, in any year.
2  Estimates based on monthly average for January-Agust 1972. Cakes included.                                  01  M
/3  Production less exports.                                                                                    H 9 m
Z- Production data used were estimated from reported oil production, converted into meal and cake               CD  e z
equivalent at a factor of 62/35.                                                                             I
July 1975 



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-'.
BRAZIL                             Table 6
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Oilseed Meal -- Overseas Prices
(US$/ton)
Soybean Meal            Cottonseed Meal         Peanut Meal
FOB      CIF            FOB        CIF    Southeastern       CIF
Chicago  Europe          Chicago  Europe      U.S. Mill       Europe
1960         62.56       91             71.93      79        58.97            98
1961         73.75      100             73.63      78        65.31            93
1962         77.60      106             76.56      83        70.22           102
1963         84.38      113             84.71      93        74.63           106
1964         80.85      112             74.90    102         67.96           110
1965         83.61      115             75.73      96        77.26           119
1966         97.17      124             93.64      94        91.72           115
1967         89.12      119             93.09      85        87.69           127
1968         90.28      120             92.59      91        91.55           112
1969         87.19      116             83.00      70        84.99           111
1970         92.98      125             93.81    103         90.45           125
1971         92.21      102             92.43    100         82.89           114
1972        122.47      129              n.a.    120         103.42          147
1973        270.01      302              n.a.    228         187.39          307
1974        163.45      184              n.a.    178         161.82          202
1975-       142.87      225/1            n.a.    170/1       118.16          230
/1 Estimated.
Sources:  U.S. Department of Agriculture:  U.S. Fats and Oils Statistics 1950-71,
July 1972, p. 178 for FOB Chicago
prices. These prices are originally
quoted in short tons and are here
converted into metric tons.
"World Supply and Demand Prospects for
Oilseeds and Oilseed Products in 1980",
March 1971, p. 15.
August 1975



RAZ 1L
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Cottonseed Products--Exports, IrVorts and Apparent Domestic Consu!etion
(Quantities in 'O00 tons; total values in Us$bW00; average prices in US$/ton)
Exports
Meal                                Cake                                 Oil a
Year  Quantity    Total   Average          Quantity    Total   Average          Quantity    Total    Average
Value     Price         _           Value      Price                     Value       Price
1961     14.78       636     110.69          10.86        314     28.91             -           -         -
65      n.a.       n.a.      n.a.            0.90        25     27.78                         -
66     22.35     1,441      64.47            3.69       167     45.22            nil           1        -
67     19.70     1,194      60.60            7.73       371     47.99            2.94        679     230.72
68     77.34     4,481      57-94            1.00        44     44.00            0.02          4     222.22
69    162.05     9,032      55.74            9.85       456     46.31              -          -         -
70    151.36     9,188      60.70          10.14        496     48.91             -           -
71    116.71     7,833      67.12             -          -        -
72 /2 137.73    10,337      75.05             -          _        _
IUporta
Oil /3                   AD ent Domestic Consu  tion/4                 Ratios of Quantities (%)
Year   wuantlty    Total   Average           mana-                 LIL          Meal & Cake           Oil
Value     Price         Cake /5                                 Exports       xports      Imports
(Quantity)          (Quantity)       Production   Pr6duction   Consumption
1964     15.31     4,663    304.53            310.16             133.74              7.6          _           10.3
65      5.03     2,440    484.80            291.62/6           108.20                           -            4.4
66      4.04     1,909    472.29            344.16             134.61              7.0          -            2.9
67       -         -         -              290.37             109.15             8.6          2.6            -
68       -         -         -              311.28             137.40            20.1          nil
69       -         -         -              330.30             177.12            24.2
70       -         -         -             254.o9              146.57            38.9           _
71
/1  No reported exports for 1964 and 1965 although there are data for 1961-63; also no reported exports after 1968.
T2 Cakes included.
7}  No reported imports after 1966.
Production plus imports, less exports.    opw                                                                           i
Production data used were estimated from reported oll production, converted into meal and cake equivalent by   a
factor of 465/164.                                                                                                    1  v
/6  Overstated by amount of meal exports frw which data are not available.                                                v
Sources: CACKI/NUCEI, Brasil Exportacao 1972.
Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various isues.
July 1975



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Table 8
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Exports of Soybeans and Meal
(1976-1980)
Soybeans
'000 tons          US$ million /1         US$/ton /1
1976                 4,025                  926                 212
1977                 4,327                1,038                 233
1978                 4,661                1,372                 247
1979                 5,000                1,375                 280
1980                 5,375                1,537                 318
Soybean Meal and Cake
1976*                2,875                  503                 174
1977'                3,090                  615                 189
1978                 3,322                  731                 221
1979                 3,576                  879                 258
1980                 3,839                1,056                 309
/1 f.o.b.
Source: IBRD
July 1975



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Table 9
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Producer Prices for Soybeans in Sao Paulo
(Cr$ 60/kg)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
January            14.40   17.67   22.28   34.37   34.92   42.84   70.05
February           17.50   18.14   25.67   30.00   33.02   58.54   72.83
March              14.67   15.00   20.33   29.18   31.54   58.60   59.45
April,             16.08   19.50   20.59   30.36   33.60   53.90   62.50
May                17.50   20.10   20.76   29.92   35.26   64.31   57.89
June               16.64   19.36   23.09   30.93   35.69   84.46   54.49
July               17.67   22.42   26.07   32.53   36.34   99.54        -
August             18.57   20.12   26.42   34.71   37.06   96.82        -
September          17.96   18.96   26.74   35.24   38.52   93.67        -
October            14.00   24.41   28.74   35.85   40.61   73.10        -
November           16.00   23.86   30.41   35.78   40.41   69.94        -
December           18.40   25.86   32.34   36.84   40.00   70.94        -
Annual Average    16.62   20.46   25.35   32.01   36.40   72.22         -      70.00
Source: IEA, Sao Paulo.
July 1975



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-1
Table 10
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Producer Prices for Peanuts in Sao Paulo
(Cr$ 25/kg)
1968     1969      1970     1971      1972     1973      1974     1975
January           14.40    17.67    22.28    34.37    34.92    42.84    70.05          -
February          17.50    18.14    25.67    30.00    33.02    58.54    72.83          -
March             14.67    15.00    20.33    29.18    31.54    58.60    59.45          -
April             16.08    19.50    20.59    30.36    33.60    53.90    62.50          -
May               17.50    20.10    20.76    29.92    35.26    64.31    57.89          -
June              16.64    19.36    23.09    30.93    35.69    84.46    54.49          -
July              17.6T   -M242   2t.t7                           9 6.3 - 9%.54 - - -
August            18.57    20.12    26.42    34.71    37.06    96.82         -
September         17.96    18.96    26.74    35.24    38.52    93.67         -
October           14.00    24.41    28.74    35.85    40.61    73.10         -
November          16.00    23.86    30.41    35.78    40.41    69.94         -
December          18.40    25.86    32.34    36.84    40.00    70.94         -
Annual Average   16.62    20.45    25.29    32.97    36.61    72.21          -       33.00
Source: IEA, Sao Paulo.
July 1975



!UL~
SUOD AGO-I9DUSSRIES CEDIT PROJECT
ANNEX 5
ppeniMx 5-1
(EL:  Soybean Processing Plant                                             Table 11
Cacity: 600 tons/day                                               Page I
Production for hPort Market
Capacity. Utilization and Production                                                               Investmnnt Comte
(Cr$ '000)
Processing capacity tons of meal per day                               600              Land LA                                                     750
Maximum capacity tons soybean per year                             132,000              Civil TWorks
Actual production soybean meal (yield/ton beans)                       782                    Land preperation and roads L2                         750
Artual production crude oil (yield/ton beans)                          18%                    Buildings and silo storage L3                      36.049
Processing capacity:                                                                          Sub-total Civil Works                              36,799
First year                                                       502              Squipmnt
Second year                                                      752                    Machinery and installation                         40,100
Third year                                                      100%                    Vehiclee                                              250
I                                                   Sub-total Equipment                                40,350
Start-up Costs                                              250
(CrS '000 per Year)
2                        ~~~~~~Fesasibilicy Study and Engineering                      280
Soybea nmeal         102,960 tons @ Cr4 1,280/ton L                131,789
Contingencias (52)                                        3.857
Soy crude oil         23,760 tons 0 Cr9 5,468/ton  2               129.920                    TOTA                                                3,86
TOTAL                                              88,286
Total                                                        261,709
LI 30,000 .2 0 CrS 25/-2.
'I For 100% capacity  third year.                                                       2  10,000 *2 e Cr$ 50/n2 plus fences.
/2  Based on 1974 export prices (USDA).                                                 /3  30,000 *3 of silo storage, equal to 307. of annual requirements.
Operating Costs Li
(CrS '000 per Year)
Direct Costs
Labor (productilon) L                               456
Social costs LA                                     209
Soybeans L                                      154,440
Utilities                                        4,268
Packaging and processing materials                2,983
Shipping and handling costs                       9,494
Transport finished products                      19,008
Total                                           190,858
Indirect Costs
Administration salaries IS                          524
Indirect labor /6                                   255
Social benefits L                                   355
Maintenance                                       1,124
Insurance                                         1,341
Taxes 17                                          1,309
Miscellaneous (5%)                                1.309
Total                                             6,217
Li For 100% capacity third year.
/2 38 persons.
/3 45.67, of wages.
4  132,000 tons 0 CrS 1,170/ton.
/5 12 persons.
/6 16 persons.
/7 PIS tax 57. of -ales.
December 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGR OINDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL:  Soybean Processing Plant
Capacity - 600 tons/day
Production for Expeort Market
(Cr$ '000)
Year .. .  1           2          3         4         5         6          7         8         9         10        11         12        13        14         15
Percent Utilization                    50        75
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
Fixed investment                         82,286      -          -         -         -          -         -          250/1    -          -         -          -         -
Working capital                            -       20,000       -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -                    -          -         -   /2
Operating income                           -      130,855   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   196,282   235,807-
Variable costs                             -       95,429   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143,144   143, 144   143, 144
Fixed costs                                -        6,217      6,217     6,217     6,217      6,217     6,217     6,217     6,217      6,217     6,217      6,217     6,217      6,217     6,217
Profit                                     -       29,209    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921    46,921
D.p .e.iation                              -        3,961      3.961     3,961     3,961      3,961     3,961     3,961      3,961     3,961     3,961      3,961     3,961      3,961     3,961
Interest - Long term                       -         -         3,620     3,168     2,715     2,263      1,810     1,358        905       453      -          -         -          -         -
Short term                      -        1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000
Profit before taxes                        -       24,248    38,340    38,792    39,245    39,697    40,150    40,602    41,055    41,507    41,960    41,960    41,960    41,960    41,960
Taxes (30%)                                -        7,274    11,502    11,638    11,774    11,909    12,045    12,181    12.317    12,452    12.588    12,588    12,588    12,588    12,588
Profit after taxes                         -       21,935    35,419    35,283    35,147    35,012    34,876    34,740    34,604    34,469    34,333    34,333    34,333    34,333    34,333
Net cash flow                           (82,286)    1,935    35,419    35,283    35,147    35,012    34,876    34,490    34,604    34,469    34.333    34,333    34,333    34,333    73,858
Sources and Uses of Funds
Sources:                                                 /4
Loan                                65,829     3,291-   3,291-    -            -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -
Profit after taxes                    -       21,935    35,419    35,283    35,147    35,072    34,876    34,740    34,604    34,469    34,333    34,333    34,333    34,333    34,333
Total                               65,829    25,226    38,710    35,283    35,147    35,072    34,876    34,740    34,604    34,469    34,333    34,333    34,333    34,333    34,333
Uses;
Investment                          82,286      -         -          -         -         -          -          250                 -         -          -         -          -         -
Working capital                       -       20,000       -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -
Interest - Long term                  -         -        3,620      3,168     2,715     2,263      1,810     1,358       905        453      -          -         -          -         -
Short term                -         1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000
Amortization                          -         -         9,051     9,051     9,051     9,051      9,051     9,051      9,051     9,054       -         -         -          -         -
Total                               82,286    21,000    13,671    13,219    12,766    12,314    11,861    11,659    10,955    10,507        1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000
Cash Position - Annual                  (16,457)    4,226    25,039    22,064    22,381    22,758    23,015    23,081    23,649    23,962    33,333    33,333    33,333    33,333    33,333
- Cumulative              (16,457)  (12,231)   12,808    34,872    57,253    80,011   103,026   126,107   149,756   173,718   207,051   240,384   273,717   307,050   340,383
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  33.05%
/1  Rainvestment in vehicles.                                                                                                                                                              , 4-
/2  Includes residual value of buildings, Cr$ 18,775; working capital, Cr$ 20,000; and land, Cr$ 750.                                                                                   ss   v
/3  Depreciation for buildings, 30 years; for equipment, 15 years; and for vehicles, seven years.
/4  Interest on fixed investment during grace period added to investment.
December 1975                                                                                                                                                                               -



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Feed Processing
A. Production
General
1.        The production of animal feed in Brazil grew at an average annual
rate of about 15% between 1965 and 1974, in direct relation with the corre-
sponding increases in production of some of the raw materials, particularly
soybean and the expansion of the poultry and swine industries. The slight
expansion of milk and milk products due to increased prices in recent years
has probably also had some impact in feed production, and plans to increase
livestock raising in confinement and expand egg production will also have
an impact on the dem-nd for fed.in, the near future.
2.        Production figures for the feed industry in the 1965-74 period
are as follows:
Production           Growth Rate
Year                        (tons)                Index
1965                      1,400,000                100
1966                      1,600,000                114
1967                      1,700,000                121
1968                      1,900,000                136
1969                      2,300,000                164
1970                      2,500,000                179
1971                      2,771,507                198
1972                      3,214,384                230
1973                      4,017,580                287
1974                      5,223,374                373
Source:   Sindicato da Industria de Racoes Balanceadas do
Estado de Sao Paulo.
3.        As analysis of this historical period reveals that feed production
required about six years to double in the initial stages, but more recently
growth has been taking place at an increasing rate except in 1971 when con-
sumption stagnated at about the same level as in 1970, probably due to price
limitations in the feed consuming industries, and then increased again,
reaching about 26% per year for the 1971-74 period. Although Brazil has quite
favorable conditions for development of the feed mill sector in terms of agri-
cultural availability and animal production, the country's total production



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 2
of animal feed is still low when compared to that of more developed countries,
mainly because more scientific and industrialized breeding of poultry and swine
started only in recent years and is still undergoing development.
4.        It is reasonable to assume that the future growth of feed produc-
tion and feed consumption will maintain growth rates similar to those
historically observed since the increase in population and the elevation
of income and living standards in Brazil will require extended food produc-
tion of broilers, eggs, pork, beef and the like. Poultry production has
grown at an average rate of 10% per year and egg production is increasing
at about 7.4% annually, with a more industrialized marketing of egg yolk and
albumen under development.
5.        Poultry in Brazil in 1973 numbered 271,676,000 (Appendix 4-3) and
feed production for poultry in the same year was 3,044,750 tons. An average
3 kg of feed is necessary to bring one bird to a point where it is ready for
slaughter. Assuming that 2,500,000 tons of feed were used in the same year
for broilers and layers, and assuming four production cycles per year, it
can be estimated that approximately 75% of the poultry production in 1973
was fed by feed processed in feed mills.
6.        High-quality pork production based on improved hog-raising is
expanding, particularly in the States of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana and
Sao Paulo. It is estimated that 250 kg of feed are needed to bring a hog
up to the slaughter stage, approximately 80 kg of liveweight.
7.        Decreasing availability of pasture land in some of the states,
particularly Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de Janeiro and, to some extent, Parana
and Sao Paulo, has resulted in the initiation of improved husbandry for
production of beef and milk, particularly during the dry season. Although
these practices still represent only a small portion of the total beef and
milk production, increases in these sectors will result in higher consumption
of feeds. If Government targets are reached, beef production for export
and domestic consumption will reach 500,000 tons by the end of this decade,
with seven to 10 times the liveweight of cattle required for food. Supply
of milk and milk products, on the other hand, is expected to grow at an
annual rate of 7.7% until 1980.
8.        Based on historical production trends and on the analysis of the
prospects of performance in each of the above mentioned large consumption
categories (broiler and layer poultry, beef and milk cattle, swine and
others), the Sindicato da Industria de Racoes Balanceadas do Estado de Sao
Paulo worked out a production forecast for animal feed up to 1984 as follows:
Year            Production (tons)          Year      Production (tons)
1975               6,100,000               1980          13,000,000
1976               7,100,000               1981          15,100,000
1977               8,200,000               1982          17,600,000
1978               9,600,000               1983          20,000,000
1979              11,200,000               1984          23,900,000



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 3
9.        In 1972 the poultry industry absorbed about 4,200,000 tons of feed,
and projections indicate consumption of 8,000,000 tons in 1980. The produc-
tion of the latter amount will require 3,780,000 tons of corn, 1,350,000 tons
of soybean meal, 550,000 tons of meat meal, 550,000 tons of fish meal and
630,000 tons of wheat, rice, cottonseed, peanuts and other raw materials.
Availability of Raw Materials
10.       The primary raw materials for animal feed production in Brazil
are corn and soybean meal, while secondary raw materials are meat and fish
meals. All of these are domestically produced and the output, at least in
the case of the soybean meal, already is considerable. Additional raw
materials such as salt, blood meal, bone meal, fat, wheat and rice bran,
urea, molasses, cottonseed meal, vitamins and minerals, and antibiotics
require no special consideration since they represent only a small portion
of the final product and are easily substituted by other raw materials
available on the market.
11.       The availability of the primary and secondary raw materials is
generally good, although there is some variation in the minimum content
of amino acids, proteins, and the like from one purchase to another.
Unfortunately, only a few of the larger producers test the quality of the
raw materials received.
12.       Corn.  Corn production in the project area reached 12,536,144 tons
in 1973, representing 89% of the total production (Table 1). However, con-
servative estimates place 1974 production at the 15-million-ton level, and
forecasts for the 1975/76 crop indicate a production increase of about 6% to
7%, resulting in about 16 million tons for that year.
13.        Average yield for the project area in 1973 was 1,615 kg/ha, but
this figure can be considerably improved through better agricultural
practices, as shown by the State of Sao Paulo, which in the same year
obtained average fields of 2,020 kg/ha. The largest producer of corn in
1973 was Parana, with 21% of the national production, followed by Sao Paulo
with 18%. There are indications, however, that this order may have been
reversed later, probably due to expansion of soybean in Sao Paulo and in-
creased corn planting in Minas Gerais related to milk and poultry production.
As main producer of feeds, however, Sao Paulo is expected to provide the major
part of the corn used by feed mills and Parana is expected to make up the
eventual deficit in anticipated requirements.
14.       Corn represents the main source of amino acids among the feed raw
materials supplying the main energetic component of the mix. Its availabil-
ity is not a constraint on feed production and, in fact, expansion of the feed
industry can supply the necessary incentives for increased corn production.
The recently initiated programs to subsidize agricultural inputs, including
fertilizers and lime, opens the possibility of considerable expansion of
corn production, particularly in the cerrado soils, as long as market and
price conditions are favorable.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 4
15.       Soybean Meal.  Soybean meal, which essentially constitutes the
raw materials for the production of animal feeds, was initially a by-
product of the industrial extraction of vegetable oils. However, increases
in price and demand in recent years has tended to reverse this situation,
at least from a marketing point of view. During the last five years,
production of soybean has increased in Brazil at an average rate that was
better than 35% per year, a figure which is substantially higher than the
average growth for the world.
16.       Production of soybean reached 5,009,000 tons in 1973, and estimates
for the 1973/74 crop placed the figure at 7,151,000 tons. Projections made
by Escritorio Tecnico de Planejamento (PLANAVE) forecast crops of 11 million
tons in 1980 and 15 millions in 1985 (Appendix 5-1). While these predictions
are probably somewhat optimistic, the potential for soybean meal production
is no doubt very high. Considering that the oil extraction process yields 0.7
ton of meal for every ton of beans, and accepting the present estimate of 8.75
million tons for the 1975 crop, the potential for meal production would be 6.2
million tons. An estimate by Moinhos Riograndenses S.A. indicates that 40% of
soybean production goes into the external market, 10% is retained by the pro-
ducers for seed or animal feed, and 50% goes into the industrial domestic
market. This would place the potential production of soybean meal for 1975
at 3,062,500 tons.
17.       In 1974 Rio Grande do Sul was the main producer of soybean with
3.8 million tons, representing 53.1% of the nation's production, followed
by Parana with 2.1 million tons and Sao Paulo with 642,000 tons. The
potential for expansion of this crop in states such as Mato Grosso, for
instance, is very high and if realized could make even present production
forecasts seem conservative.
18.       Soybean meal constitutes the main source of protein in animal
feed and is therefore considered as essential for expansion of the beef,
pork and poultry industries. For these reasons, export quantities of
soybean meal are predetermined by the Government in order to prevent
domestic scarcities and upward price pressures in the domestic market.
19.       Meat Meal.  Meat meal is used in animal feeds in considerably
smaller quantities than either corn or soybean meal. It is a source of
animal protein and, when bone is included in the meal, supplies calcium and
several minor elements of the diet. Meat meal is mainly derived as a by-
product of beef processing, and, since the beef industry has been expanding,
due mainly to modernization of existing slaughterhouses and packing plants
and the construction of new plants with up-to-date mechanical equipment for
processing cattle by-products, it is easily available.
20.       Another source of meat meal, although considerably smaller than
the beef processing industry, is the pork processing sector.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 5
21.       Information available from the Departamento de Inspecao de
Produtos de Origem Animal (DIPOA) for 1973 indicate production of 136,396
tons of beef derived meals in Brazil as a whole and 131,729 tons in the
project area, representing 97% of the total production (Table 2). This
figure represents only inspected production of meat, meat and bones, hooves
and horns, blood, bone, autoclaved bone, liver and lung, and offal meals,
and, since not all of the beef slaughter is inspected, production is prob-
ably higher by 30 to 50%.
22.       Fish Meal.  Fish meal is another source of animal protein used
for poultry feeds. However, should it become unavailable or scarce in the
domestic market, it can be replaced by other raw materials such as soybean
meal or meat meal without causing the final product to lose its protein
or energy producing qualities.
23.       The leading fish meal producing states are Rio de Janeiro, Rio
Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Sao Paulo, with productions of 8,157.5
tons, 7,296 tons, 5,881 tons and 1,617 tons, respectively, in 1973 (Table 3).
These figures, however, represent only DIPOA-inspected products, the total
production being somewhat larger.
24.       In recent years, the State of Sao Paulo has received a large part
of the Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Pesca (SUDEPE) fiscal incentives
for construction of new industrial plants and modernization of existing ones,
which should raise production of this feed considerably over the next few years.
B. The Industry
25.       Feed mill industries in Brazil are owned mainly by private companies;
only 5% to 10% belong to cooperatives. Eleven large companies within the pri-
vate sector produce 70% to 75% of the total animal feed production in Brazil
(Table 4). Four of them, together responsible for more than 40% of the pro-
duction, are multi-nationally owned, while seven are nationally owned. The
feed mills are situated mainly in the southern part of Brazil, with the
following dispersion in the four zones:
Zone 1    North and Northeast of Brazil             -    8%
Zone 2    Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro,
Minas Gerais, Goias                       -   17%
Zone 3    Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso                    -   55%
Zone 4    Parana, Santa Catarina,
Rio Grande do Sul                         -   20%
According to Sindicato da Industria de Racoes Balanceadas in Sao Paulo, no
significant changes in the production rate between national and multi-national
producers would be expected within the coming years.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 6
26.       The two main cooperatives are COTIA and SUBBRAZIL, both federated
cooperatives, headquartered in the city of Sao Paulo. COTIA is the larger
of the two, with 10,000 members scattered over the states of Sao Paulo,
Parana, and M4ato Grosso and a few in Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. COTIA
had an average monthly production of 8,500 tons of feedstuff in 1969,
increasing to 20,000 tons in 1974, or a yearly increase of about 15%. A
forecast doubling that capacity within five years has been worked out. In
Minas Gerais, a new cooperative consisting of 300 members has just been
created, but, apart from this, no plans for increasing the number of members
has been made. SUBBRAZIL has a production of about 30% of COTIA's. As
feedstuff production is only a small part of the cooperative's activities,
no expansion of the market share within the feedstuff production is expected
within the foreseeable future.
27.       Feed mills have traditionally been located close to the production
areas of corn and soybeans because of the problems associated with purchasing
raw materials.  Most are in the State of Sao Paulo in the two main production
areas in the southwest and in the district of Sao Paulo.  However, as produc-
tion increases, feed mills would likely be more dispersed in order to lower
the transportation cost of raw materials and the distribution cost of feedstuff.
28.       Feed mills vary greatly in size.  According to Sindicato da
Industria de Racoes Balanceadas do Estado de Sao Paulo, the capacity of exist-
ing mills range from 1,000 tons to 15,000 tons per month. New feed mills to
be built within the next five years, however, are expected to have capacities
ranging from 5,000 tons to 20,000 tons per month. Five new mills under con-
struction now have an average capacity of about 15,000 tons per month.
29.       The general condition of the feed mills is good.  The larger private
firms and the cooperatives have high technical standards and all the larger
mills have their own laboratories, even though not all are well equipped with
efficient testing apparatus.
Plant Operations
30.       The basic equipment installed in feed mills are weighbridges for
trucks and railroad cars, mechanical conveyors, dryers, cleaners, hammer
mills, weighing and dosing equipment, mixers, pelleting machines and mecha-
nical and electrical controls. Nearly all mechanical equipment is available
in Brazil, but some highly specialized items, representing 5% to 10% of total
cost must be imported, such as dies and rollers for the pelleting machines and
some mechanical/electrical controls and laboratory equipment. Some of the
large international feed mill manufacturers have offices or representatives
in Brazil and they are able to furnish such equipment.
31.       Raw materials are received either in bulk or bags.  Receiving
samples are drawn before the trucks and railroad cars are unloaded and
material can be rejected if the quality is found to be too low. This right,
however, is seldom exercised. If acceptable, raw materials are transported
on conveyors for any necessary drying and cleaning, after which they are



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 7
stored. The bigger feed mills generally have drying and cleaning equipment
in connection with raw material silos, but, since smaller ones do not, they
normally purchase grain and soybean already dried and cleaned. When required
for production, the raw materials are ground and weighed together according
to the specific formulas by semi-automatic weighing machines. The mixing
takes place in horizontal or vertical mixers after premixes, fat, molasses,
and such are added. After mixing, the meal products go either to the auto-
matic weighing machines for outloading or to the pelleting machines. Approx-
imately 25% of animal feed produced in Brazil is in pellet form and the rate
seems to be increasing.
32.       Feed mills are mechanized to a very limited extent and use quite
a lot of laborers. The average seems to be about 100 workers for a production
of 12,000 tons of feedstuff per month. As labor is still relatively cheap
in Brazil, it is expected that new feedstuff plants will be semi-automatically
controlled, using about 60 workers in a 12,000-ton-per-month plant. Since
there is so little automation, a breakdown of machinery does not cause a
significant interruption of production.
33.       A problem common to many of the feed mills in Brazil is the
scarcity or nearly total lack of storage facilities for raw materials such
as corn and soybeans. Storage space for less than eight days of production
is not unusual and, due to the seasonality of these crops, it is often dif-
ficult to purchase them before harvest periods. It should be emphasized that
when new feed mills are built, raw material storage for at least one month of
production should also be built unless raw material supply can be guaranteed
from other sources.
Environmental Aspects
34.       Pollution from feed mills is limited mainly to dust coming from
the receiving and discharge points and from air outlets, with losses in
older plants varying from 1% to 3% of the total feedstuff production. In
order to reduce these losses (valued at an average of Cr$ 25 per ton),
automatic dust collecting filters are often installed in new feedstuff
plants, bringing the pollution down to a negligible amount. No Government
restrictions regarding limits on dust pollution have yet been issued in Brazil.
C. Marketing
Domestic Market
35.       The market for balanced feeds has grown by 273% in the past decade,
from 1.4 million tons in 1965 to 5.2 million tons in 1974. This accelerated
growth, equivalent to 14.1% per year, was based on growth of 10%, per year in
the broiler industry and 7.4% annually in egg production, as well as on im-
proved methods of hog, beef and milk production. Among those sectors, the
poultry industry is by far the mainstay of the balanced feed industry.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 8
36.       Estimates published by the Sindicato da Industria de Racoes Balan-
ceadas do Estado de Sao Paulo (SIRBESP) indicate that the market for balance
feeds is at present distributed as follows:
Poultry                   75
Pigs                      12
Cattle                    10
Others                     3
37.       Consumption of balanced feeds on a tonnage basis, estimated by
the aforementioned association, is shown below for the past four years:
1971                1972               1973             1974
Tons        %        Tons       %      Tons         Z    Tons       %
Poultry   2,148,640    73      2,435,800   76   3,044,750    76  3,958,175  76
Pigs        394,920    14        394,920   12       490,650    12    641,745  12
Cattle      297,656    10         297,656    9      375,070     9    483,691   9
Others       86,008      3        86,008    3       107,510     3    139,763   3
TOTAL    2,927,224   100      3,214,384  100   4,017,980   100  5,223,374 100
38.       The balanced feed industry is concentrated in the Center-South region,
the area of the Agro-industries Credit Project, where its main markets and
sources of supply of raw materials are located. It is in this area also
that the corn and soybean production belts are situated. These grains are
the principal ingredients of the balanced feed, and the feed industry, in
turn, is the main domestic market for those crops.
39.       The distribution of balanced feed consumption in the country is
as follows:
Sao Paulo                                      45
Parana, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul    20
Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas
Gerais, Goias                             17
North, Northeast                                 8
40.       The feed milling enterprises market their basic products;  (a)
balanced feeds which are complete protein-rich rations for livestock and
poultry; and (b) feed concentrates which are mixtures without corn. Poultry
and livestock farmers in the corn belt frequently prefer to purchase concen-
trates and mix the ground corn on their own farms, thus saving a small margin
from handling, commission and transportation of the grain.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 9
41.       Sales of feed concentrates to corn-belt areas can rise to as much
as 40% of total sales in the months immediately following the corn harvest.
That pattern may be reinforced with improved on-farm storage resulting from
current governmental incentive programs to construct such facilities. In
regions more distant from the corn-production localities, such as the North
and Northeast, sales consist almost exclusively of balanced feeds.
42.       Marketing of feeds is complicated by the varying needs of hog,
cattle, dairy and poultry producers. The large feedmills offer as many as
40 different formulas for various purposes. This variety creates a complex
inventory problem, which requires expert management to maintain the most
efficient and economic production schedules, and combines custom mixing
with shipments directly from inventory. Inadequate coordination of produc-
tion and inventory controls could reduce or eliminate profit margins. There
is also a time dimension to the inventory problem since mixtures are not
generally held more than 30 days because of possible deterioration of some
of the more perishable ingredients.
43.       The modern feed mill now receives its supplies of grain and soy-
beans in bulk, by truck or rail. Marketing of feeds, however, is still
largely in sacks for convenience of retailers who must deal with many small
farmers. Larger enterprises, particularly the large broiler producers, are
gradually constructing on-farm storage in the form of bins or silos so that
they can receive deliveries in bulk. Savings can be substantial in bulk
deliveries, the cost of sacks alone amounting to Cr$ 100 per ton. Large
bulk buyers can negotiate directly with the feedmills, thereby eliminating
distributor's margins and extra handling costs.
44.       The complicated variety of balanced feed mixes offered in part
reflects the different sectors serviced as well as the broad marketing area
encompassed. A typical Sao Paulo feed mill supplies balanced feed to cus-
tomers as distant as Bahia, Pernambuco and Belem. Markets for balanced
feeds in the North and Northeast have not developed to the point where they
can sustain economic feedmill operations.
45.       Because of the antiquated conditions of the rail system, transport
requires up to 40 days to the more distant points. Moreover, the problem
of different gauges when passing from one system to another en route can be
surmounted only by transhipment which increases handling to intolerable
levels. In consequence, balances feeds are transported almost exclusively
by truck. Illustrative 1975 trucking tariffs shown below demonstrate the
cost of distribution of this basic ingredient in the development of the
dairy and swine industries in particular, in areas distant from the grain
belt of the Center-South:
Cr$/ton        US$/ton
Campinas-Fortaleza                    470              59
Campinas-Recife                       430              54
Campinas-Salvador                     320              40
Campinas-Vitoria                      160              20
Campinas-Rio-Belo Horizonte            90              11



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 10
The bulk of the average feed mill's shipment goes within a radius of 150 to
200 km.
46.       The larger integrated feed mills have their own soybean milling
facilities. Surplus soybean meal output from these operations is shipped
in bulk to smaller feed mills or to exporters. Soybean oil generally is
sold to specialized firms for further refining, and soapstock (chemical
residue from oil refining) is sold to soap manufacturers.
47.       As the production zones for poultry, hogs, beef and dairy become
more diffused, the location of the newer feedmills closer to the consumer
areas in Mato Grosso, Goias and Minas Gerais may seem a logical movement
to reduce transport costs. Such locations must be well planned in order to
achieve maximum economies. There will be some obvious trade-offs in terms
of possibly longer distances from suppliers of not only corn and soybeans,
but of the numerous other inputs that comprise the balanced ration formulas.
For the large integrated units that may include soybean processing equipment
as well, greater distances to customers for the oil, soapstock and surplus
meal will entail diseconomies that would partly offset other benefits.
48.       The larger feed mills, as part of their marketing strategy, have
a staff of animal husbandry specialists and veterinarians who perform serv-
ices similar to extension specialists. These services are, of course, limited
to users of the company's products. Despite the commercial basis of the serv-
ices rendered by these specialists, they are performing a valuable function in
providing assistance to the farmers, and helping to raise the general level of
agricultural technology in the country.
Projections
49.       Based on prevailing estimates of growth in output of poultry, hogs,
dairy and beef cattle over the coming decade, and the likely trends in usage
of balance feeds in the various sectors, forecasts have been made by the
Sindicato da Industria de Racoes Balanceadas do Estado de Sao Paulo (SIRBESP)
for an even more accelerated growth in the future than has prevailed in the
past. Demand for balanced feeds in 1984 is placed at 23.5 million tons,
392% more than in the current year, indicating an anticipated annual growth
rate of 16.5%. Growing awareness of the benefits and indeed the necessity
of improved technology in increasing productivity witnessed by the mission
in the various sectors indicate that prospects for greater use of balanced
feeds are excellent. The trend of balanced feeds usage in Brazil to 1984,
as indicated by projected demand is as follows:
Million tons                    Million tons
1975                 6.1             1980             13.0
1976                 7.1             1981             15.1
1977                 8.2             1982             17.6
1978                 9.6             1983             20.0
1979                11.2             1984            23.9
Source:   SIRBESP.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Page 11
Prices
50.       The feed mill industry has benefited by the producer price support
policies administered by the Comissao de Fixacao de Precos (CFP), which has
helped farmers greatly in obtaining better prices during the harvest season.
It may also have assisted the feed mills by removing a considerable speculative
element in the commodity market and set a floor under the prices for the
main ingredients, corn and soybeans. Prices prevailing in mid-1975 for
several important raw materials were as follows:
Cr$/ton        US$/ton
Soybean                 950           119
Corn                    635            79
Meat meal             1,270           159
Fish meal             2,340           293
For further details, see Table 5.
51.       Feed prices are regulated by the Comissao Interministerial de
Precos (CIP) which administers price policy for all processed and manufactured
goods. Cost analyses are submitted to CIP once a year and feed prices are
determined on that basis. This procedure can also be initiated at any time
should the feed industry want to raise prices. The CIP determines prices on
the basis of the new cost data and consideration of corroborating cost evi-
dence from related and supplier industries. Corn and soybean prices, for
obvious reasons, have a major influence on the cost structure of the feed
industry. Average prices being quoted by the industry for representative
formulas are set forth below.
Cr$/ton         US$/ton
Balanced feeds         995            128
Concentrates         1,356            170
Details are given in Table 6.
52.       Fiscal incentives have been accorded the feed industry to encourage
greater production and consumption of balanced feeds. The industry has been
exempted from the turnover tax, Imposto de Circulacao do Mercado (ICM).



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Table I
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Corn Production in the Project Area
(1973)
Area                                   Average
Harvested    %    Production    %    Yields    Value          %
(ha)              (tons)            (kg/ha) (Cr$ '000)
Brazil                   9,908,036   100   14,109,340   100   1,424   5,123,218   100
Project Area      7,644X077    77   12,536,144    89   1,615   4,414,004    86
South                    3,928,921    40    6,667,143    47   5,198   2,239,512    44
Parana                 1,621,696    16    3,005,987    21   1,854         936,661    18
Sta. Catarina            800,142      8    1,560,348    11   1,950        507,290    10
Rio Grande do Sul      1,507,983    16    2,100,808    15   1,394         795,561    16
Southeast                3,107,370    31    4,918,435    35   1,583   1,836,892    36
Minas Gerais           1,526,215    15    1,994,233    14   1,307         750,374    15
Espirito Santo           218,622      2       233,821      2   1,070       82,017      2
Rio de Janeiro /1         60,418      1        60,333      1   1,038       26,890      -
Sao Paulo              1,302,115    13    2,630,048    18   2,020         977,611    19
Center West                 607,786     6       950,566      7   1,564      377,600      6
Mato Grosso               158,157     2       245,113      2   1,550       74,340      1
Goias                    448,650      4       703,984      5   1,569      262,672      5
Federal District              979     -         1,469      -   1,501          588      -
/1 Includes the old States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source: IBGE
June 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Inspected Production of Slaughter By-Product Meals
(1973)
Volume                               Meat           Hooves                                          Auto-           Liver         Feathers
(tons)                               and            and                                             claved          and           and
Total       %      Meat      %       Bones    %    Horns   %       Blood    %       Bones    %      Bones    7.   Lung    %    Offal         %
Brazil                    136,396.6  100   73,082.5  100   50,438.   100   654.8  100   5 767 0  100   2,163.5  100   2,287.7  100   168.5  100   1,834.5  100
Project Area            131,728.9   97   72,179.3   99   46,974.5   93   654.2   99   5.510.7   96   2,119.5   98   2,287.7  100   168.5  100   1,834.5  100
South                      48,235.0   35   14,291.5   20   27,687.6   55    13.9    2   2,479.6   43            768.3   36   1,885.1   82   165.2   98          943.8   51
Parana                   11,167.0    8    1,930.8    3    7,941.1   16           .2    -      786.5   13      278.0   13        -       -     30.4   18       200.0   11
Sta. Catarina             5,608.0    4    1,931.9    3    2,407.1    5          1.8    -      317.7    6      116.2    5        -       -     89.5   53       743.8   40
Rio Grande do Sul        31,460.0   23   10,428.8   14   17,339.4   34    11.9    2   1,375.4   24            374.1   18   1,885.1   82    45.3   27            -      -
Southeast                  74.601.3   55   54,974.8   74   14,535.6   29   640.3   97   2.829.5   49   1,224.5   57              402.6   1l       3.3    2      890.7   49
Minas Gerais             13,778.8   10    3,803.1    5    8,107.2   16          -     -       883.0   15      803.1   37       182.4    8       -      -        -      -
Espirito Santo            2,325.0    2         -        -    2,051.0    4       -     -        53.8    1       -       -       220.2   10       -      -        -      -
Rio de Janeiro Li         6,787.7    5    2,042.7    3    4,322.9    9   422.1   64            -       -       -       -        -       -       -      -        _      _
Sao Paulo                51,709.8   38   48,229.0   66          54.5    -   218.2   33   1,892.7   33         421.4   20        -       -       3.3    2      890.7   49
Center West                 8.892.6    7    3.813.0    5    4,751.3    9          -       -     201.6   44       126.7    5       -       -       -       -        -     -
Mato Grosso               3,813.0    3    3,813.0    5          -        -      -      -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
Goias                     5,079.6    4         -        -    4,751.3    9       -      -      201.6   44      126.7    5        -       -       -      -        -      -
Federal District             -        -        -        -       -        -      -      -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
/1 Includes the old States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture - DIPOA.
July 1975



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Table 3
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Fish Meal Production in the Project Area
(1973)
Volume
(tons)
Brazil                             22,953.0           100
Project Area                     22,953.0           100
South                              13,177.9            57
Parana                              _                 _
Sta. Catarina                     5,881.9            25
Rio Grande do Sul                 7,296.0            32
Southeast                           9,775.1            43
Minas Gerais                        -
Espirito Santo                      -                 -
Rio de Janeiro Il                 8,157.5            36
Sao Paulo                         1,617.6             7
Center West                           -                 -
Mato Grosso                         -                 -
Goias                               -                 _
Federal District                    -                 -
/1 Includes the old States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture - DIPOA.
July 1975



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Table 4
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT II
Main Producers of Animal Feed in the State of Sao Paulo
Capacity
Producer                Location              Tons/Month      %       Owned By
Cargill                 Jundiai                  3,500    ) 14.2      Multi-national
Araraquara               4,500    )
Paulinea (Campinas)    16,000    )
Purina                  Campinas                17,000    ) 13.6      Multi-national
Ribeiro Preto           3,000    )
Socil                   Sao Paulo               13,000    ) 11.4      National
Descalvado               2,500    )
Bauru                   2,500    )
Anderson and Clayton    Sao Paulo               16,000    )  7.3      Multi-national
Bauru                  16,000    )
Duratex                 Campinas  '1             6,000    )  7.2      National
(Curitiba)/-            6,200    )
Central Soya            Sao Paulo                6,000    )  5.5      Multi-national
Ribeiro Banito           1,000    )
Paulinea (Campinas)    16,033    )
Sadia                   Sao Pauilo               5,230        3.2     National
Racao Dutra             Sao Paulo                5,000        3.1     National
Mainho Lapa             Sao Paulo                2,800        1.8     National
Primor                  Sao Paulo                2,500        1.5     National
Avisco                   Sao Paulo               2,500        1.5     National
/1 Feedstuff transported from Curitiba to Campinas.
June 1975



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Table 5
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT II
Prices of Raw Materials /
Cr$
Tons    Price/Ton          Cost
Wheat bran                                 7,400      348.27        2,577,198.00
Meat meal                                  6,371    1,269.32        8,026,837.73
Fish meal                                  1,272    2,340.61        2,977,255.98
Crushed limestone                          3,199      133.30          426,426.70
Cottonseed meal                            2,550      806.68        2,057,034.00
Soybean meal                              41,888      948.84       39,745,009.92
Dehydrated vegetable                           4      669.23            2,676.92
Crushed salt                                 766      479.60          367,373.60
Bone meal                                  1,655    2,063.01
Manafos                                        1    1,923.88            1,923.88
Animal carbon                                703      510.59          358,944.77
Rice bran                                  1,562      166.05          259,370.Ca
Manioc meal 1                              4,367      459.21        2,005,370.07
Fermented millet                             251    1,420.02          356,425.08
Fermented cane                               255      848.86          216,454.30
Vegetable oil                                790    1,432.24        1,131,469.60
Defarred rice meal                         3,674      540.84        1,987,046.16
Urea                                         151    2,439.53          368,369.03
Cane molasses                                555      302.29          167,770.95
Refinazil                                  1,790      463.80          830,363.10
Protenose                                  1,973    1,449.28        2,859,439.41
Powdered whole milk                           27    8,083.76          218,261.52
Powdered skim milk                           172    8,292.22        1,426,261.84
Vegetable oil                                 11    8,387.95           92,267.45
Blood meal                                   154    1,815.21          279,543.34
Corn                                      37,320       635.37      23,712,008.46
Gravel meal                                    5       789.41            3,947.05
Cottonseed meal                                2       238.54              477.02
Sunflower meal                                63    1,027.89           64,757.08
Monocalcic phospate                            1    2,088.33             2,088.33
Almond shell/cotton/molasses                 197       319.13           62,868.61
Almond shell/cotton                          223       310.89           69,328.47
Babacu meal                                   88       640.29          56,345.53
Lex Proteico                                  99       605.99           59,993.00
Microelements                                461   16,574.58        2,640,881.38
Total                               120,000                  100,471,782.17
/1 Prices in June 1975.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
Table 6
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT II
Prices for Final Products
(in Cr$) 1/
Mixed Products
MR1      Initial feed for young chickens                                   1,165.13
MR2      Initial feed for chicken for slaughter                            1,111.22
PIE      Feed for young chickens                                          1,073.60
FCEl     Feed for fattening chickens  1st period                             930.64
FCE2     Feed for fattening chickens 2nd period                              898.03
PCE      Feed for layers                                                     917.47
REE      Feed for breeding poultry                                        1,004.51
FG2      Feed for chicken for slaughter                                   1,040.27
FG3      Feed for checken for slaughter                                      964.65
RAS      Anti-stress feed for poultry                                     1,057.87
RAU      Anti-worm feed for poultry                                       1,553.96
RAM      Medicated feed for poultry                                       1,174.15
3B       Feed for early weaning                                              903.78
3C       Feed for heifers                                                   774.48
BLE      Feed for milk cows                                                 746.14
BLR      Feed for stud bulls                                                 767.93
BLS      Feed for dry cows                                                   729.35
SIC      Initial feed for hogs                                             1,097.28
Average Price Per Ton                                          Cr$ 995.03
Concentrate
CPI      Initial concentrate for young layers and breeders                 1,457.70
CFC1     Concentrate for fattening chickens 1st period                     1,098.46
CFC2     Concentrate for fattening chickens 2nd period                       991.49
CPO      Concentrate for layers                                            1,228.16
CRE      Concentrate for breeding poultry                                  1,153.76
MCR1     Concentrate for young chickens for slaughter                      1,607.06
MCR2     Concentrate for chicken for slaughter                             1,628.35
CFG1     Concentrate for chicken for slaughter                             1,530.94
CFG2     Concentrate for chicken for slaughter                             1,457.74
CFG3     Concentrate for chicken for slaughter                             1,543.79
VRE      Concentrate for breeding poultry                                  1,424.10
CCP      Single concentrate for hogs/slaughter                             1,439.02
CCR      Single concentrate for hogs/breeding                              1,518.23
CBC      Concentrate for milk cows                                           906.96
Average Price Per Ton                                        Cr$ 1,356.13
/1 Prices in June 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Milk Processing
A. Production
1.        An increase in population and income in recent years in Brazil has
resulted in higher consumption of animal-derived products, particularly beef
and milk. The milk industry, however, has not taken advantage of its oppor-
tunity to grow. In general terms, the growth rate of milk production has not
even been equal to the absorption capacity of the market, particularly in
the last decade. This has resulted in frequent crises of supply in the large
urban centers, particularly during the dry months, and in considerable imports
of powdered milk or other fresh milk substitutes.
2.        Other reasons for the shortage of milk and milk products include
the expansion of beef production and the predominance of the dual-purpose
herd, which is easily switched to the more lucrative beef market. Low pro-
ductivity is another factor cutting down supply. However, recent increases
in milk price got a reaction from producers that showed their ability to in-
crease the supply in short periods in response to increased profits. Average
milk production for Brazil is presently 2.37 liters/cow/day, but in the South
and Southeast regions it is somewhat higher.
3.        Of the total milk production in the country in 1973, the Southeast
region (Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo, Espirito Santo, and Rio de Janeiro) contri-
buted 56%; the South (Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Parana), 26%; and
the Center-West (Goias and Mato Grosso), 6%. The project area, therefore,
contributed 88% to the national production (Table 1). Output of raw milk
in 1974 was forecast at 72.1 billion liters. Farm and retail price of milk
was raised several times in the same year and was expected to increase further
in early 1975. In spite of this, the outlook for milk and milk products in
the next five years is apparently that a greater deficit will occur between
demand and production, with increasing shortages of fresh milk, powdered
milk, cheese, condensed milk, butter and yogurt, unless policy decisions are
made to improve the situation for the milk producers, as well as for the
processors, distributors and industrialists.
4.        Recent substantial increases in the financing available to milk
producers, including a specific credit line for pasture improvement, plus
the announced policy of allowing higher producer prices that would be in
line with input costs, may result in a significant growth of dairy products
in the near future. However, an estimate of milk production, demand and



ANNEX 6
Page 2
deficit, prepared by the Fundacao Getulio Vargas in March 1974, indicates
production of 10,339,000 tons in 1975, demand for 11,178,000 tons, and a
deficit of 839,000 tons. For 1980, the estimate is even more pessimistic,
with a production of 13,273,000 tons, demand for 14,782,000 tons, and a
deficit of 1,509,000 tons.
5.        Increasing implementation of sanitary inspection by the Departamento
de Inspecao de Produtos de Origem Animal (DIPOA) clearly establishes the
trend towards larger and more modern milk processing plants, which require a
reliable and extensive supply of the raw products for an economically viable
operation. At present, however, the very nature of the production operation
favors smaller producers, often associated only for the marketing of the raw
milk. A study conducted by the Instituto de Economia Agricola of the State
of Sao Paulo (IPEA) showed that 88% of the milk processing units can be
considered small, with an output of less than 100 liters per day. These
units, however, contribute 40% of the total milk production in Sao Paulo.
B. The Industry
Structure
6.        There is a critical milk shortage in Brazil, especially in the
large urban areas during the dry season, when pastures do not provide suffi-
cient nutrients for the dairy herd and most of the farmers do not feed their
stock. The dairy herd in Brazil is estimated at about 12 million head, with
the average farmer owning 25 cows. The yield per cow is low, 2.37 liters per
day, compared to the more developed countries where production per cow
averages 12 to 15 liters. One reason is that much of the dairy herd is not
bred to produce milk. Only 15% are actually specialized in this field, while
352 are dual purpose milk and beef breeds and the balance are inferior breeds
with low production. In many states, the farms are located in rural areas
with no access to major roads, which complicates milk collection and results
in losses due to spoilage or milk simply being kept on the farm.
7.        Brazil does not produce high quality milk, as most of the production
on which prices are based is "C" grade. Very little "B" grade is available
at higher prices and practically no grade "A" is produced. Cheese production
is quite important since many small farmers that cannot get milk to dairies
manufacture cheese for local consumption. Also, dairies make cheese out of
milk that cannot be sold pasteurized because of high acidity or excess
capacity during peak production periods. Powdered skim milk is also manu-
factured by a number of dairies, but the supply is not sufficient to meet
the national demand. Therefore, Brazil must import powdered milk to meet
requirements. Butter is another product that is manufactured by many dairies.
However, because of the milk shortage, vegetable oils and margarine are
being used as substitutes. Condensed milk is produced by a few companies, but
production is greater than demand so Brazil is a net exporter. Yogurt is



ANNEX 6
Page 3
increasing in popularity and several new plants have been built in recent
years to supply this market. Ice cream is of minor importance though there
are a number of dairies and firms that specialize in this field.
8.        As most of the milk is produced by small farmers, cooperative
dairies have been formed to industrialize production. A few private companies
own their own herds to supply a major part of their requirements and they
purchase the balance of their needs under contracts with local producers.
State-owned dairies do not play an important role in Brazil's production.
9.        In April of 1975, DIPOA certified 1,013 milk operations, of which
98% were in the project area. These units consisted of dairies, 56%; pasteur-
izing plants, 21%; and collecting stations with refrigeration facilities, 17%.
The remaining 6% are various types of collecting or holding stations. Minas
Gerais, supplier of dairy products to Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, has the
greatest concentration of milk installations -- 61%; Sao Paulo is next with
16%; Rio de Janeiro has 7%; Goias, 6%; Parana, 3%; Espirito Santo and Rio
Grande do Sul, 2% each; and Mato Grosso, Santa Catarina and the Federal
District, 1% each.
10.       The largest share of Brazilian dairies is owned by cooperatives
that are organized at local, regional and state or central levels, depending
on their marketing areas. The cooperatives range in size from very small
plants with capacities of 5,000 liters per day, small plants that can handle
up to 9,000 liters per day, medium-sized units with production of under
100,000 liters per day, and a few large plants in urban areas with capacities
of 800,000 to 1,000,000 liters per day. There are a number of large privately
owned companies that manufacture specialty products such as powdered skim
milk, condensed milk, yogurt and cheeses. The major raw milk processors
are COPL in Rio de Janeiro, accounting for 28% of all Brazil's processed
milk; Leite Paulista in Sao Paulo, 23%; and CCPR in Belo Horizonte, 9%. The.
remaining 40% consists of companies such as Leite Vigor, Dana, Lacesa, Pocos
de Caldas, Rex, Leite Big, Gloria, Nestle, and many small- and medium-sized
producers. The industry is national in character, with only a few inter-
national companies, like Leite Gloria, Nestle, Kibon and Danone who manufacture
specialty products.
11.       In January 1972, the first phase of the Programa de Laticinio was
instituted under the direction of the Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de
Minas Gerais (BDMG). The target was a total capacity of 730,000 liters per
day in the first phase of the program, but actual capacity in 1973, with
expansions in place, came to 840,000 liters/day. Fourteen projects involving
11 firms were completed ahead of schedule. Total investment came to Cr$ 157
million.
12.       In Phase II of the program, expansion of 600,000 liters/day is
envisaged during 1974/76. Six projects will add 210,000 liters/day and
three projects under consideration will add 390,000 liters/day. Total in-
vestment for the expansion envisioned will be Cr$ 61 million. The completed



ANNEX 6
Page 4
expansions should bring capacity in the State of Minas Gerais to 1.44 million
liters/day.
Regulations
13.       Production of fluid milk, butter and cheese have been under partial
inspection by state and federal agencies for a number of years, but starting
in January of 1975, DIPOA, through their Milk Inspection Section (DILEI),
assumed the responsibility for sanitary inspection from the various state
agencies involved. Existing regulations are outmoded, but they will be super-
seded by new ones which are being prepared on the basis of international stan-
dards. DILEI is also reviewing and approving all new dairy plant construction
and facilities to insure that they meet proposed standards.
14.       The large number of small- and medium-sized dairies in a country
the size of Brazil will present a serious inspection problem, since the
distance between plants is considerable and the individual plant size in many
cases does not warrant full-time inspectors. A shortage of trained personnel
complicates the problem. Consequently, the small- and medium-sized units
will have to come under some form of area supervision, with periodic inspec-
tions to insure that the plants are complying with the sanitary regulations.
The large plants have full-time inspectors and, according to DILEI, 40% of
all dairies now have permanent inspection.
Plant Operations
15.       The size of the average Brazilian dairy farm precludes the use of
milking machines, so that only 3% of the milk is produced in this manner.
Also, because most of the farms lack cooling equipment, a large portion of
the milk produced is never processed because of poor quality. Normally,
milk from the farms is placed in 50-liter metal containers for transport to a
collecting station or dairy, where it is cooled, analyzed and processed, or
it is taken by bulk milk trucks to the larger processing plants.
16.       In the small- and medium-sized plants, most of the operations are
done manually in batch-type equipment, which makes them labor-intensive,
while the large plants compare favorably with those in developed countries
in regard to plant layout, equipment and processing methods. As there is a
wide fluctuation in the daily milk reception due to seasonal variations, many
plants have a limited pasteurizing capacity to meet their normal fluid milk
requirements and any excess is diverted to industrialized products. Grade
"C" milk is low in fat content; therefore, any excess over the grade require-
ments is used for butter, as is fat removed from powdered skim milk. Cheese
can be made from this excess supply and also from some of the milk which is
too acid to be sold as pasteurized milk.
17.       Two types of dairies can be considered as standard for the industry --
the plants that supply fluid milk for the urban centers and industrialized
by-products and the specialized plants that have been designed to meet a



ANNEX 6
Page 5
special market sector, such as yogurt, frozen milk or ice cream, condensed
milk, and powdered skim milk. The latter type plant can also manufacture
some by-products from the components that are not required for normal
operations.
18.       Competent management can be found in all of the larger dairies,
which also train their technical and production personnel. The small- and
medium-sized plants lack the production volume to warrant a trained staff,
consequently, their technical level is inferior.
Equipment
19.       lJuch of dairy equipment is fabricated from stainless steel that must
be imported. There are a number of local manufacturers that make tanks and
tubing, though care must be exercised in preparing sanitary welds to avoid
the problem of bacterial contamination from areas that cannot be sanitized
properly. Foreign companies have established local subsidiaries that produce
a wide variety of equipment for the dairy industry and can supply a large
portion of national requirements. Specialized equipment, such as homogenizers,
plates for pasteurizers, separators, sanitary pumps, and some packaging
machinery, must still be imported.
Environmental Aspects
20.       The small size of much of the dairy industry presents a water
pollution problem, since these plants cannot afford to install waste water
treatment equipment and discharge their liquid waste material into municipal
sewage lines or streams. The larger plants, on the other hand, can afford
minimal water treatment facilities, but many still discharge waste from their
plants at contamination levels above those set by current pollution regulations.
The new plants approved by DILEI should meet these standards and as sanitary
inspections become more widespread, the older and smaller plants will have
to modernize their facilities or go out of business.
C. Marketing
Domestic Market
21.       Imports of powdered milk, butter and cheese totalled US$28.4 million
in 1974 and although milk production is continually expanding -- farm output
of fresh milk rose from 7.1 million tons in 1970 to about 10 million tons
in 1974 -- the main problem is the wide seasonal variations in output. The
annual production cycle will be somewhat ameliorated by the pasture improvement
program to which the Government allocated substantial sums in May 1975, but
substantial expansion of powdered milk processing plants and modernization
and expansion of the national dairy plant will be required to handle rising
milk production in the years to come. Even though the trough of the annual
production cycle may thus be improved, the problem of processing excess output
of milk at the peak of the annual cycle will remain.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
22.       Dairies are generally located near local consumption centers -- a
small or large urban area and the environs which it serves. In the larger
urban areas, two or more dairies may be in competition with one another.
Typically, the marketing area extends over a radius of 100 to 150 km, although
the larger dairies may market milk by-products in distant localities across
the country.
23.       The lairies usually distribute fresh milk and milk products directly
to retail outlets in nearby areas or localities. Where longer distances are
involved and large refrigerated trucks are used, only the large supermarkets,
wholesale distributors or the dairy's own branches receive direct deliveries.
24.       Fresh milk supply follows a seasonal pattern similar to beef output.
In the center-south of Brazil, full production usually runs from November to
June, while during the dry season from July to October, daily receipts of
fresh milk at dairies run about 65% to 70% of the level during the November-
June period. The usual supply-demand pattern for a dairy apparently is that
the level of absorption of the local market is somewhat below the peak pro-
duction level during the February-April period. Some of the larger dairies
have drier equipment so that they can divert the excess supply of fresh milk
to powdered milk production. Other dairies make more by-products such as
cheese, butter, and "doce de leite" 1/ that can be stored. The powdered milk
is used as an extender in the fresh milk during the low season. The market
for by-products is still limited in Brazil, so that smaller dairies that do
not have drier equipment have great difficulty in adjusting their operations
to fluctuating deliveries of fresh milk. Building up inventories of by-
products also creates a financial strain on the smaller dairies.
25.       The problem of managing the fluctuating fresh milk supply can readily
be perceived by observing the typical product mix of a dairy.
Product                  _%
Fresh milk               76
Butter                   13
Cheeses                   9
Yogurt                    2
Since fresh milk constitutes a predominant portion of the product mix, it can
.ily be appreciated that the only economic solution to the seasonal
problem is to dry the excess milk during the high season. Switching to by-
products could cause marketing and financial problems by generating inventories
1/   A unique Brazilian by-product.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
of unsaleable items in a limited market. This would be particularly true for
aged cheese with relatively high value for which there is a narrow market.
Concomitantly, greater purchases of imported powdered milk would be necessary
to stretch the fresh milk supply during the low season.
26.       There is clearly need for additional drier capacity in the country.
However, such equipment must be combined with modern facilities of a scale
that would permit maximum utilization of the total integrated dairy complex.
This would include cold storage capacity for powdered milk and by-products.
A viable enterprise ideally would have the marketing capability to profitably
place by-products in distant markets so as to have maximum flexibility in
adjusting the product mix. Existing drier capacity, though insufficient, is
also unevenly distributed. There reportedly are 29 plants in Parana and
only three in Minas Gerais, although production in those states was 0.5
million tons and 2.9 million tons respectively in 1973.
27.       Aggregate demand for milk -- pasteurized and in by-product forms --
in 1974 was an estimated 10.4 million tons, as compared with 7.3 million tons
in 1970, a growth rate of 9.7% per annum. Important factors in the broadening
demand for milk, apart from population growth and rising incomes, are (a)
education of the public on the health aspects of milk consumption; and (b)
introduction of the plastic container (in 1969), which greatly facilitated
the efficient low-cost distribution of fresh milk. Demand for fresh milk
was earlier projected to rise at a rate of 13.2% per annum to 1975 and 11% per
annum thereafter to 1980. Those projections are optimistic as compared with
the forecasts of the Fundacao Getulio Vargas, which call for growing shortfalls
in 1975 and 1980, as follows:
1975                      1980
__----  --------('000 tons) -
Production                10,339                     13,273
Demand                    10,985 - 11,178            14,026 - 14,782
Balance                     -646 -   -839              -753 - -1,509
Percent increase           1975 - 1980          =     27.7% - 32.2%
Growth rate                1975 - 1980          =      5.0% -  5.8%
28.       In 1972, the production of milk by-products was as follows:
'000 tons
Butter                         33
Cheese                        70
Powdered milk                 125
Condensed milk                 35



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Of the 7.14 million tons of milk produced, 70.8% was consumed in the form of
fresh milk and 29.2% was transformed into by-products. That was the highest
proportion processed on record and reflected mainly the increase in powder~.
milk production.
29.       Demand among median and upper income groups is expanding rapidly
for specialty by-products such as multi-flavored yogurt, "doce de leite",
condensed milk, and cream. The Instituto de Desenvolvimento Industrial de
Minas Gerais (INDI) estimates that 1975 consumption of milk by-products will
be as follows:
Index
'000 tons             (1968-69 = 100)
Butter                   99                     176
Cheese                  159                     167
Powdered milk           357                     190
Although they are minor items among milk by-products (and are included in the
fresh milk category in consumption statistics), yogurt and jellied milk have
shown a particularly sharp increase in volume -- from 8-million liters in
1968 to 22.9 million liters in 1972. In the latter year, milk taken in these
forms made up 0.3% of fresh milk consumption.
30.       In recent years, the volume of milk by-products has been growing
steadily, but until 1972, that growth paralleled the uptrend in total milk
output, so that the proportion of milk processed fluctuated around 80%. As
larger, modern dairy plants are built, the tendency is to place greater em-
phasis on processed products. The main reason for that is the cost-price
squeeze at the processing level for fresh milk. Due to the trend toward
greater emphasis on by-products, there was a pronounced maldistribution of
milk during the low season when a deficit occurred in milk production. The
Government has therefore decreed that the large industries that specialize
in milk by-products, such as Nestle and Danone, must direct 40% of their
normal fresh milk receipts to the fresh milk market for a specified period.
That measure will probably become a permanent feature of milk policy in the
future as improved distribution and merchandising through the expanding super-
market system and more sophisticated consumer demand encourage a proliferation
of specialized milk by-product processing firms.
31.       Transport is a large item in the cost structure of milk, a product
which has a shelf life of only one or two days. The production zone which
supplies the dairy is typically up to 600 km in size, with the movement of
milk to market taking up to 24 hours to accomplish. A system of collection
centers usually constitutes the primary phase of the evacuation of milk. From
those centers, large tanker trucks then haul the milk to the dairy, often an
overnight run.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
32.       At the producer level, transport to the collection center is
arranged by the producers. A group of cooperative members may have a truck,
or may contract with an independent driver. Other producers, individually
or in groups, arrange transport along similar lines. Where volume is heavy
and tank trucks are required, independent truckers provide contractual service.
Independent truckers in the producing zones also may act as intermediaries
or collect milk on a commission basis for the dairy. Because of the heavy
investment required for tanker trucks in particular, independent truckers
provide an important part of equipment inventory for producers and dairies
alike.
33.       Transport costs from the producer to the collection center and from
the collection center to the dairy amount of Cr$ 0.03 to Cr$ 0.12 per liter,
depending on distance. Cooperative producers (Parana) are charged individually
on a predetermined scale according to their location. In Minas Gerais, esti-
mates run from Cr$ 0.05 to Cr$ 0.10 per liter, in all cases for the account of
the producer. Distance to the collection centers from farms averages 60 to
70 km (Minas Gerais). Taking as a base a producer price of Cr$ 1.35 per
liter, maximum trucking costs for the producer run from 7% to 9%.
34.       In order to facilitate evacuation of milk to the collection centers
there is urgent need for improvement of infrastructure in the producing areas,
such as paving of roads. During the rainy season, when output levels are high,
unpaved roads occasionally become impassable for several days at a time.
Farmers are then compelled to dump their milk because they have no equipment
to hold it, and because they must continue milking. Farmers in Brazil
apparently are not accustomed to making butter on the farm, as farmers in
the US have done in earlier periods.
35.       Local distribution from the dairy to retail outlets usually is by
unrefrigerated truck (e.g. VW Kombi). Refrigerated trucks are used for
transport of milk to distribution centers away from the dairy's own immediate
zone.
Imports
36.       Among dairy imports, powdered mill is by -far the most important
item (Tables 2 and 3). Since 1970, powdered milk imports registered a low
of 11,900 tons in 1972 and a record high of 54,100 tons in 1973. Imports have
tended to fluctuate widely over the years, but more recently the basic trend
is up, although that may reflect a lag in domestic output as demand for milk
and milk products increases. Butter imports have rebounded sharply, averaging
2,590 tons in 1972/74 -- a level not registered since the early 1960s. However,
butter remains a minor item with aggregate import value averaging US$2.1 million
in the 1972/74 period. Cheese imports number about two dozen varieties, mainly
specialty items from European countries. In contrast to the other dairy im-
ports, cheese imports have shown a steady upward trend throughout the past
decade and are likely to continue as a minor but high-value specialty category
from 60 tons in 1964 to 870 tons in 1973/74.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
37.       Very small quantities of dairy products are shipped to neighboring
countries and to the Caribbean area and that trade is rather sporadic.
Prices
38.       Prices of milk have been raised recently in order to provide
additional incentive to producers. The charges are listed below:
Producer     Wholesale       Retail
price          price
--- ------ (Cr$/liters)---------
Pre-December 1973    0.68/1                        0.73
1974    1.00                         1.40
January       1975    1.35           1.60          1.90
May           1975    1.45                          1.90
/I        Based on minimum butterfat content of 3.1%.
Prices of by-products are not controlled. Therefore they may range widely,
e.g., prices of various aged cheeses vary as much as 100% from the common
types. Current prices of representative products are listed in Table 4.
39.       Because wholesale price is fixed at Cr$ 1.60 per liter, and the
producer price is fixed at Cr$ 1.35, the Cr$ 0.15 margin allows for little
more than a break-even operation at best for fresh milk distribution. The
dairy enterprise or cooperative must rely on sales of by-products for reason-
able returns on investment.
D. Models
40.       Indicative models are presented for the cheese and butter plant and
for a powdered milk and butter plant (Tables 5 and 6).



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Herd, Milked Cows, and Amount and Value
of Milk Production in the Project Area
(1973)
Milk       1        Value of
Total                                     Produced /           Production
Herd          %      Milked Cows   %       ('000)       %      (Cr$ '000)   %
Brazil                        90,830,380   100    13.958,684   100    9,301,675   100    8,079,170   100
Project Area                  72.546.226    81    11,728,628    84    8.126,187    88    6,915,170    86
Southeast                     32,462,779    36      7,544,428    54    5,269,945    56    4,283,361    53
Minas Gerais               18,374,986    20      4,338,334    31    2,898,007    31    2,637,186    32
Espirito Santo              1,625,864     2        264,203      2      176,488      2       121,777      2
Rio de Janeiro /2           1,416,954     2        334,172      2      317,892      3       228,883      3
Sao Paulo                 11,044,975    15       2,607,719    19    1,877,558    20    1,295,515    16
South                         20,554,915    23      2,651,585    19    2,288,241    26    2,163,044    27
Parana                     5,086,501      6        656,159      5      446,188      5       410,493      5
Sta. Catarina              2,125,431      2        274,181      2      284,326      3       210,401      3
Rio Grande do Sul         13,342,983    15       1,721,245    12    1,557,727    18    1,542,150    19
Center West                   19,528,532    22      1,532,615    11        568,001     6       469,152      6
Mato Grosso                10,672,570    12        488,804      4       180,857     2       182,666      2
Goias                      8,819,630    10       1,037,188      7      383,760      4       283,982      4
Federal District               36,332      -         6,623      -         3,384     -         2,504      -
/1  Data subject to adjustments.
/2  Includes the old States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source:  Centro Brasileiro de Estatistica Agropecuaria (CBEA).
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Milk Products Imports
(Quantities in '000 tons; total values in US$'000; average price in US$/ton)
Imports:                 Powdered Milk Li                         Butter                             Cheese
Total    Average                    Total     Average                  Total    Average
Year              Quantity    Value    Price         Quantity      Value      Price      Quantity    Value    Price
1964                19.88       5,178      260.49       7.97       6,643        834.02       0.06         45      803.57
1965                21.53       6,802      315.93       0.09          73        820.22       0.01          5      555.56
1966                24.55      10,329      420.68       0.01           9        818.18       0.09         69      741.94
1967                25.64      12,368      482.37       0.02          23      1,150.00       0.16        174    1,969.98
1968                14.87       8,368      562.74       4.47       1,843        412.12       0.48        538    1,113.87
1969                12.15       6,674      549.30       0.32         216        668.73       0.36        332      909.59
1970                31.84      13,807      433.62       0.06          48        745.00       0.58        489      847.59
1971                15.11      10,915      722.60       0.08          81      1,012.52       0.69        476      970.65
1972                11.85       8,241      695.24        /2           15      1,673.91       0.44        452    1,039.82
1973                54.07      37,466      692.98       6.31       5,918      1,114.67       0.97     1,349    1,389.01
1974                24.36      25,517     1,047.41      1.37         150      1,098.76       0.77     1,338    1,730.82
/1 Includes negligible quantities of fresh, fermented, evaporated condensed milk; cream.
/2 9.2 tons.
Source: IBGE, Anuario Estadistico do Brasil, 1964-69; CACEX 1970-74.
July 1975
a4
r 0'



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CRIDIT PROJECT
Imports of Powdered Milk by Countries of Origin (1970-74) L
Weight in '000 kg                                      Value in '000 Us$ c.i.f.                                 Unit; value  US$/ton
197U       1971        1972        1973        1974         1970        1971        1972       1973        1974         1970     lP971       1972       1973      1974
France             1,000.1                             2,905.5      9,996.8       230.0                             2,409.3    10,656.1    229.97                          829.22    1,065.95
New Ze*land                         .5           .5  12,650.5       5,658.8                       .3        2.4     7,942.0     5,009.9                600.0   4,800.00   627.80        885.32
Argentina                                             13,790.4      3,476.5                                         3,202.0     3,255.5                                    844.76       936.43
Netherlands        1,142.2       830.0        217.1   !2,476.5      1,834.1       652.1        703.4      236.7     2,139.6     2,182.3    570.91      847.46   1,090.28   870.85    1,189.84
Bahamas              431.1       174.9      1,336.2      100.0      1,198.7       313.9        154.9    1,634.8        22.0     1,877.0    728.13      *85.64   1,223.46   220.00    1,565.86
Australia                                              5,613.1      1,000.0                                         3,735.5       900.0                                    665.49       900.00
Denmark              357.6       458.2         99.5    2,131.6        587.7       218.2        374.7      113.6     1,959.5       820.5    610.17      117.76   1,141.70   919.26    1,396.12
United Kingdoa       362.4       915.4          8.0      841.8        445.8       301.5        920.7        3.0       514.6       574.6    831.95   1,005.78      375.00   611.30    1,288.91
Germany               53.8        25.6         62.7       32.5         44.7        22.5          7.8       29.6        16.0         8.1    418.21      104.68     472.08   492.30       181.20
United States      9,379.8    12,631.8    10,061.3    3,814.0          37.5    12,015.5      8,675.4    6,193.9     2,008.2        47.7    620.00      686.79     615.61   526.53    1,272.00
Others L2            112.3        68.7         68.0  19,729.3          81.4        42.8         77.1       26.8    12,205.0       185.3    381.12   1.131.00      394.12   685.30    2.276.41
31,840.3    15,105.1    11,853.1  54,065.6       24,362.0    13,806.5    10,914.9    8,240.8    37,466.2    25,517.0    434.00       722.60     695.24   692.98    1,047.00
/1 Includes negligible amounts of fresh, fermented, evaporated, condensed milk; cream.
lb
/2 Canada, Colombia, Ireland, Switzerland, Guyana, Italy, Venezuela, Japan, Belgium and Luxemburg, Sweden, Mexico, Spain and Czechoslovakia.
Source: CACEX
July 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Milk Prices (May 1975)
Producer Wholesale Retail
Price     Price /1   Price /L
Sta. Catarina and Belo Horizonte
Fresh milk (Cr$/liter 3.1% butterfat)               1.35        1.60       1.90
1.45/2
Belo Horizonte (kg)
Butter                                                                   17.00
Cheese prato                                                             20.00
Cheese minas                                                              18.00
Cheese mozarella                                                          19.00
Doce de Leite L3                                                         16.20
Powdered milk                                                            13.36
Yoghurt (cup)                                                              1.25
Instituto Laticinio Candido Tostes (kg)
Cheese gouda                                                             40.00
Prato                                                                    20.00
Butter                                                                    15.00
/1  General agreement on wholesale and retail price of fresh milk (official
prices). Official producer price was raised recently to Cr$ 1.45 per
liter. Actual payment received depends on butterfat content, quality,
activity, and such.
/2  Instituto Laticinio Candido Tostes.
/3  Concentrated pudding (unique Brazilian product).
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND ArRO-IDUSTkIIS CRlDIT PJECT                                                ANI  6
Table 3
Page 1
MODEL A: Cheese and Butter Plant
Capacity: 50,000 liters/day
Production for Dmestic Market
Capacity, Utilization and Annual Production                                                        Investment Costs
(Cr$ '000)
Maximum amount of liters/day:                                                               Land                                                         so
First year (60% capacity)                                           30,000 liters      Civil Works
Second year (80% capacity)                                          40,0DO liters          Preliminary works                                        80
Third year (1007% capacity)                                         50,000 liters          Buildings                                            2.619
Number of working days per year                                              365                 Sub-total Civil Works                                2,699
Equipment
Parmesan cheese                                                              937  tons          Machinery and equipment                               3,887
"Prato" cheese                                                              354  tons           Complementary installations                             310
"Reino" cheese                                                              326  tons           Vehicles                                                494
Butter                                                                       156  tons          Sub-total Equipment                                   4,691
Income 1                                             Start-up Costs                                              294
(Cr$ T o-00per Year)
Contingencies 207.                                       1.489
Parmesan cheese (in 5 kg units)        187,380 units @ Cr$ 18,000/ton          16,864           Total                                                 9,223
"Prato" cheese (in 1 kg units)         325,800 units @ Cr$ 15,000/ton           5,309
"Reino" cheese (in 1.7 kg units)    208,176 units @ Cr$ 13,000/ton              4,235
Butter (in 10 kg cans)                  11,700 units @ Cr$ 11,000/ton           1,287
Butter (in 200 gr packages)            202,500 units @ Cr$ 11,000/ton             446
Total                                                               28,141
Operatius Costs
(Cr$ '000 per Year)
Direct Costs
Labor (production)                                     269
Social costs                                           134
Milk /I                                             18,250
Packing and processing materials                       563
Transport                                              187
Taxes /2                                             1,349
Financial costs                                        338
Commercial costs                                       563
Utilities and miscellaneous                            186
Contingencies (5%)                                   1.092
Total                                               22,931
Indirect Costs
Administration salaries                                246
Fixed labor                                             72
Social costs /3                                        123
Insurance                                               82
Maintenance                                            112
Miscellaneous costs                                    181
Contingencies (5%)                                      70
Total                                                  886
fL  50,000 liters x 365 days @ Cr$ 1/liter.
/2  ICM and FUNRURAL.
/3  5020 for fixed labor and 25% for administration.
December 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL A: Cheese and Butter Plant
Capacity - 50,000 liters/day
Production for Domestic Market
(Cr$ '000)
Year...  1           2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9         10         11         12          13         14         15
Percent Utilization                     60         80        100
Finiancial Rate of Return Analysis
Fixed investment                         9,223       -          -          -                                             494 -     -          -          -          -           -          -          -
Working capital                           -         2,000       -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Operating income                          -        16,885    22,512    28,141    28,141        28,141    28,141    28,141    28,141    28,141    28,141           29,141    28,141    28,141    31,541 /2
Variable costs                            -        134159    18,345    22,931    22,931    22,931         22,931    22,931    22,931    22,931    22,931    22,931    22,931    22,931    22,931
Fixed costs                               -           886        886        886        886         886        886        886        886        886        886         886        886        886        886
Profit                                    -         2,>40      3,281      4,324      4,324      4,324      4,324       4,324      4,324      4,324      4,324      4,324       4,324      4,324      4,324
Depreciation 13                           -            40        440        440        440        440         440        440        440        440        440        440         440        440        440
Interest - Long term                      -          -           406        355        304        254         203        152        102         51       -          -           -          -          -
Short term                    -           100        100        100        100        100         100        100        100        100        100        100         100        100        100
Profit before taxea                       -         1,700      2,435      3,429      3,480      3,530      3,581       3,632      3,682      3,733      3,784      3,784       3,784      3,784      3,784
Taxes (30%)                               -           510        731      1,029      1,044      1,059       1,074      1,090      1,105      1,120      1,135      1,135       1,135      1,135      1,135
Profit after taxes                        -         1,730      2,550      3,295      3,280      3,265       3,250      3,234      3,219      3,204      3,189      3,189       3,189      3,189      3,189
Net cash flow                           (9,223)      (270)    2,550       3,295      3,280      3,265       3,250      2,740      3,219      3,204      3,189      3,189       3,189      3,189      6,589
Sources and Uses of Funds
Sources:                                                 /4         /4
Loan                                7,378         369-       369-      -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Profit after taxes                    -         1,730      2,550      3,295      3,280      3,265      3,250      3,234      3,219       3,204      3,189      3,189      3,189      3,189       3,189
Total                                7,378      2,099      2,919      3,295      3,280      3,265      3,250      3,234      3,219       3,204      3,189      3,189      3,189       3,189      3,189
Uses:
Investment                          9,223        -          -          -          -          -          -           494       -           -          -          -          -           -          -
Working capital                       -         2,000       -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Interest - Long term                 -           -           406        355        304        254        203         152        102         51       -          -          -           -
Short term               -            100        100        100        100        100        100        100         100        100        100        100         100        100        100
Amortization                          -          -         1,014      1,014      1,014      1,014      1,014       1,014      1,014      1,018       -          -           -          -          -
Total                               9,223       2,100      1,520      1,469      1,148      1,368      1,317      1,760       1,216      1,169        100         100        100        100        100
Cash Position - Annual                  (1,845)         1      1,399      1,826      2,132       1,897      1,933      1,474      2,003      2,035       3,089      3,089      3,089      3,089      3,089
- Cumulative            (1,845)   (1,844)        (445)    1,381       3,513      5,410      7,343      8,817     10,820    12,855       15,944     19,033    22,122    25,211        28,300
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 31.35%
/1  Reinvestment in vehicles.
/2  Includes residual value of buildings, Cr$ 1,350; working capital, Cr$ 2,000; and land, Cr$ 50.                                                                                                    wwj 
/3  Depreciation for buildings, 30 years; for equipment, 15 years; and for vehicles, seven years.                                                                                                       a
/4  Interest on fixed investment during grace period added to investment.                                                                                                                               La
December 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL B:  Powdered Milk and Butter Plant
Capacity - 150,000 liters/day
Production for Domestic Market
Capacity, Utilization and Annual Production                                                                 Investment Costs
(Cr$ '000)
Maximum amount of liters/day:                                                                       Land                                                            500
First year (40% capacity)                                    60,000 liters                     Civil Works
Land preparation, roads and fencing                         350
Second year (80% capacity)                                  120,000 liters                         Buildings                                                 3.785
Third year (100% capacity)                                  150,000 liters                         Sub-total Civil Works                                     4,135
Number of working days per year (20 hours)                           365                            Equipment
Machinery and equipment                                 13,500
Powdered milk                                                  5,670,870 kg                              Installation                                                950
Butter                                                         2,298,560 kg                             Vehicles                                                     350
Sub-total Equipment                                      14,800
(Cr$ '000 per Year)                                                   Start-up Costs                                                   300
Feasibility Study                                               251
Powdered milk (2.5% moisture)   5,670,870 kg @ Cr$ 10.56/kg  -    59,884,387
Contingencies (5% of fixed *ssets)951
Butter (80% fat)                 2,298,560 kg @ Cr$ 13.50/kg  =    31.030.560                       Contingencies (5% of fixed assets)
TOTAL                                                    20, 936
Total                                                           90,914,947
L. Based on 1974 prices.  Efficiency 85% of theoretical capacity.
operating Costs
(Cr$ '000 per Year)
Direct Costs
Labor (production) L                                    313
Social costs L.                                         143
Milk  /3                                             64,782
Packaging materials /4                                3,857
Utilities                                             2,041
Miscellaneous costs                                      12
Total                                                71,148
Indirect Costs               /346
Administration salaries -
Fixed labor /6                                          305
Social costs /2                                         297
Insurance                                               342
Maintenance                                             319
Taxes i7                                                455
Contingencies (5%)                                      455
2,519
/1  21 people.                                                                                                   - G f
U2 45.6E of salaries and wages.
L3 48,345,000 liters @ Cr$ 1.35/liter.
L4  Plastic bags for powdered milk and retail 3 kg packages for butter.
/5 10 people.
/6  20 people.
/7  0.5% of sales PFIS. tax.
December 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL B: Powdered Milk and Butter Plant
Capacity - 150,000 liters/day
Production for Domestic Market
(Cr$ '000)
Year .....  1          2          3         4          5          6          7         8          9          10         11        12         13         14         15
Percent Utiliziation                    40         80         100
Finantcial Rate of Return Analysis
Fixel investment                          20,936                  -          -         -          -          -          35- /-
Working capital                              -        12,500      -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -   /2
Operiating income                            -       36,366    72,732    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915    90,915   105,983-
Variable costs                               -       28,459    56,918    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148    71,148
Fixed costs                                  -        2,519      2,519      2,519     2,519      2,519      2,519     2,519      2,519      2,519      2,519     2,519      2,519      2,519      2,519
Profit        3                              -        5,388    13,295    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248    17,248
Depreciation -                               -         1,168     1,168      1,168      1,168     1,168      1,168     1,168      1,168      1,168      1,168     1,168      1,168      1,168      1,168
Interest - Long term                         -         -           921        806       691        576        461       345        230        115       -         -          -          -          -
Short term                       -           625       625        625        625       625        625        625       625        625        625        625       625        625        625
Profit before taxes                          -        3,595    10,581    14,649    14,764    14,879    14,994    15,110    15,225    15,340    15,455    15,455    15,455    15,455    15,455
Taxes (307,)                                 -         1,079     3,174      4,395     4,429      4,464      4,498     4,533      4,568      4,637      4,637     4,637      4,637      4,637      4,637
Profit after taxes                           -        4,309    10,121    12,853    12,819    12,784    12,750    12,715    12,680    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611
Net cash flow                             (20,936)   (8,191)   10,121    12,853    12,819    12,784    12,750    12,365    12,680    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    27,679
Sources and Uses of Funds
Sources:                                                    /4A
Loan                                 16,749        837-       837/     -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Profit after taxes                     -         4,309    10,121    12,853    12,819    12,784    12,750    12,715    12,680    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611
Total                                16,749      5,146    10,958    12,853    12,819    12,784    12,750    12,715    12,680    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611    12,611
Uses:
Investment                           20,936       -          -         -          -          -          -          350       -          -          -         -          -
Working capital                         -       12,500       -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -
Interest - Long term                   -          -           921       806        691        576       461        345        230        115      -          -          -
Short term                 -           625        625        625       625        625        625       625        625        625        625       625        625        625        625
Amortization                            -         -         2,303      2,303     2,303      2,303      2,303     2,303      2,303      2,302       -         -          -          -
Total                                20,936    13,125       3,849     3,734      3,619      3,504     3,389      3,623      3,158      3,042        625       625        625        625        625
Cash Position - Annual                     (4,187)   (7,979)    7,109       9,119      9,200     9,280      9,361      9,092     9,522      9,569    11,986    11,986    11,986    11,986    11,986
Cumulative               (4,187)  (12,166)   (5,057)    4,062    13,262    22,542    31,903    40,995    50,517    60,086    72,072    84,058    96,044   108,030   120,016
FINAIICIAL RATE OF RETURN:  33.05%
/1 Leinvestment in vehicles.
/2  Inclues residual value of buildings, Cr$ 2,068; working capital, Cr$ 12,500; and land, Cr$ 500.                                                                                               m   3
/3  Depreciation for buildings, 30 years; for equipment, 15 years; and for vehicles, seven years.                                                                                                   aX
/4  interest on fixed investment during grace period added to investment.                                                                                                                         M'
December 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Miscellaneous Processing
1.        The processing of traditional and non-traditional agricultural
products for human or animal consumption is a growing activity in Brazil.
Some of these agro-industries are traditional and going through a process
of expansion and/or modernization, while others are new enterprises in the
introduction stage. Another processing activity involves agricultural
products not intended for human or animal consumption, such as wool, hides
and non-edible oils, which are usually associated with some other agro-
industrial activity.
2.        The link between production of agricultural raw materials and
processing of agro-industrial products is composed of a number of necessary
elements for which the demand is already there, and expected to grow with
the increase of production and the expansion of agro-industry. These in-
clude such industries as mixing facilities for fertilizers and manufacturing
plants for small agricultural implements, sprayers for insecticides and
seed processing equipment, plus a variety of marketing facilities.
3.        In Agro-industries Credit Project I, a number of commodities were
considered to fall within the area of miscellaneous food and feed production,
but as sub-projects were presented for financing under the project, it was
found that there was considerable interest in products not intended for
direct human or animal consumption, agricultural inputs, or marketing
facilities. Therefore, to facilitate the treatment of these sub-sectors in
the proposed project, sub-groupings have been established to accommodate
fruit and vegetable processing for human consumption (fruit juices, canned
fruit, preserves, end canned and frozen vegetables); alternative sources of
protein (egg processing); non-edible products (wool, hides, non-edible oils,
soap, and vaccines); agricultural inputs (fertilizer mixers and light agri-
cultural tools and equipment); and marketing facilities (collection centers,
wholesale markets, fish marketing facilities). Some of these industries
and facilities are taken up separately in Appendices 7-1 through 7-3.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Fruit and Vegetable Processing
A. Production
1.        Orange juice dominated the first activities of the miscellaneous
group in Agro-industries Credit Project I. With 90% of the total production
destined for export, and with production increasing from 3,800 tons in 1964 to
118,400 tons in 1973, it constitutes an excellent source of foreign currency.
Prices have dropped in the last two years, but the export trade is still
sufficiently viable to justify new facilities being constructed in Minas
Gerais and Espirito Santo, away from the areas of traditional concentration
in Sao Paulo.
2.        The industrial capacity for orange juice processing has been esti-
mated at 140,000 tons per year, but it should go up by 3,000 tons per year
in 1976 and 10,000 tons per year in 1978 when the new facilities are con-
structed. On the basis of a joint study by FAO and the Secretaria de
Agricultura de Sao Paulo, production of concentrated orange juice is expected
to go from the 133,000 tons in 1973 to 310,000 tons in 1980 and 317,000 tons
in 1985, with a geometric annual growth of 7.5%.
3.        In 1972 orange juice was 15th in export value for agricultural
products, while West Germany, United States, the Netherlands, Canada and
Sweden were the main export markets. Other fruit juices, produced almost
exclusively for domestic consumption, reached only 80,400 tons in 1972,
but the domestic market has been growing since at reduced rates as non-
traditional use of these products continues to expand. A recent law requir-
ing that natural fruit juices be incorporated in any commercial drink pur-
porting to contain such juices (Ley do Suco) will constitute a boost to
fruit production.
4.        The commercial production of fruits and vegetables, which has
grown significantly in 1974, offers possibilities for marketing and process-
ing activities that would be particularly important to states such as Santa
Catarina, Espirito Santo and Minas Gerais, who have large expanses of land
that could be used best in production of tropical and semi-tropical fruits
such as citrus (oranges, tangerines, lemons), papaya, mango, persimmon,
peach, apple, pear, grape, and avocado. A profile of selected fruit is
presented in Table 1, showing the situation in 1973. Since then, however,
extensive plans have been made bv the State of. Espirito Santo to produce and
process pineapple, orange, guava, banana, jackfruit, cashew and papaya; Santa



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 2
Catarina is considering an extensive production of avocado in the littoral
micro-region of the state, with a view to oil and feed production; and Minas
Gerais has already initiated a 1,000-ha plantation of avocado for the same
purposes and is conducting serious studies for the production and processing
of peaches, nectarines, figs, pears, plums and pecans. Macademia nut and
the leechee nut are also being considered as possible export crops. Citrus
production in 1974 has increased 25% since 1973, with oranges comprising
some 90% of the total production, estimatedat 7L.2 million--boxes.  Orange
tree population in Sao Paulo in 1974 was about 75.6 million, including 33
million new non-bearing trees (Table 2).
5.        Shipments of orange juice concentrate during 1974 came to approxi-
mately 110,000 tons; that is, 9,000 tons less than in 1973, but 20,000 to
25,000 additional tons were exported in the first quarter of 1975, bringing
the total 1974 orange juice exports to 120,000 tons. Efforts to set minimum
export prices (MEP) in 1974 were not successful and transactions were made
at considerably lower prices than those called for.
6.        Citrus production is concentrated in the project area, which in
1973 produced 94% of the oranges, 93% of the tangerines, and 84% of the
lemons in the country.  This production, in general, was located in the
Southeast region1, particularly inx the States of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and
Rio de Janeiro. The average yields for the country were 54,858 fruit/ha for
oranges, 110,613 fruit/ha for lemons, and 96,309 fruit/ha for tangerines, but
yields of 111,661 oranges/ha were obtained in Goias and 121,474 oranges/ha in
Santa Catarina; yields of 144,183, 135,000, 126,310 and 123,405 lemons/ha
were harvested in Goias, Guanabara, Sao Paulo and Santa Catarina, respectively.
Tangerines achieve yields higher than the national average in Guanabara
(187,807 fruit/ha), Mato Grosso (143,018 fruit/ha), and the Federal District
(127,143 fruit/ha).
7.        The South and Southeast regions also dominate the production of
other fruit, with the South producing 90% of the peaches, 81% of the pears,
and 76% of the grapes, while the Southeast produced 94% of the papaya, 59%
of the persimmon, 46% of the pineapple, and 56% of the apples in 1973. Aver-
age yields for 1973 were as follows:
Fruit                Fruit/ha
Persimmon                    56,156
Apples                       29,443
Papaya                       16,991
Mango                        48,558
Pears                        54,711
Peaches                      84,016
Grapes (kg/ha)                7,080
However, higher than average yields of persimmon were obtained in Guanabara
(79,184 fruit/ha) and in the States of Parana, Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 3
Espirito Santo. Mango yields were extraordinarily high only in Goias
(74,455 fruit/ha), while better than average yields of peaches were obtained
in Goias, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, and Mato Grosso.
8.        Grape production is largely concentrated in the South region, par-
ticularly in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, but production in Santa Catarina,
although limited in area has obtained yields of 9,740 kg/ha, which is higher
than average for the country (7,080 kg/ha). Experimental plantings in Mato
Grosso also showed yields of 9,000 kg/ha, indicating the potential for this
crop in the southern part of the state.
9.        Of the slightly less than half of the national production of pine-
apple produced in the project area, the Southeast region produces the larger
portion, particularly in the States of Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo and Espirito
Santo. Average yield for the country in 1973 was 9,589 fruit/ha, but the
average in the same year for the Southeast region was considerably higher
(11,037 fruit/ha), and in Espirito Santo it reached 17,457 fruit/ha.
10.       The above figures clearly indicate that, given the economic moti-
vation of a production-absorbing processing industries and modern agricul-
tural inputs, there is no constraint on increased production, either by
enlarging the planted area, or better still, by obtaining higher yields as
has already been achieved in some states.
11.       In 1973, production of avocado in the project area, which is grown
for consumption as a fruit but which can also be processed for production of
oil for the cosmetic industry and pulp for the feed industry, reached
347,135,000 fruits, representing 69% of the national production. Operations
were concentrated mostly in the States of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais where
yields were only slightly above the national average of 30,141 fruit/ha. How-.
ever, small plantations of avocado in Mato Grosso achieved yields of 71,000
fruit/ha, showing what can be done. Avocado oil extracting industries are
being considered in Santa Catarina, Minas Gerais and Espirito Santo as a way
to utilize some of the extensive non-arable lands.
12.       Emphasis on higher yields can already be noted from production
data from Santa Catarina for early 1975 which show yields of 11,500 fruit/ha
in pineapple, 7,131 kg/ha of onions and 22,632 kg/ha of tomatoes. All of
these figures are considerably above the average for the same state in
1973. Rio Grande do Sul reports yields of 10,740 kg/ha in grapes, an increase
of 54% over 1960 production and the largest recorded in the last 14 years.
13.       It has not been possible to obtain production data on other fruit
suitable for processing, such as strawberries and figs. However, Rio Grande
do Sul reported a production of 2,500,000 kg of strawberries in 1972, with
yields of 2,500 tons/ha, and a total industrial production of 6 million 1-kg
cans of figs in 1973, with average yields of 4,800 tons/lha in the southern
part of the state. Estimates for the same area indicate a production of 500
to 800 tons of pears and 20,000 tons of peaches. Of these, peaches and
strawberries are produced mostly for export.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 4
14.       Vegetable production in the project area is difficult to assess,
since many of the crops are recorded statistically only once every five
years for the census, and the situation can, of course, change significantly
in that time, both quantitatively and spatially. Information was gathered,
however, on some of the major crops which are considered suitable for
industrial processing (Table 3), as well as on some others which show
potential.
15.       The project area produces 98% of the potatoes in the country,
with the Southern region contributing 58% and the greater part of the other
40% produced by the Southeast, particularly Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo.
Average national yields in 1973 were 7,086 kg/ha, but in the same year,
the South averaged 11,520 kg/ha and the Southeast 8,665 kg/ha.
16.       In 1973, 90% of the garlic and 86% of the onion produced in Brazil
was harvested in the project area. The South region contributed 48% of the
garlic and the Southeast 38%; 59% of the onions came from the South, mainly
from Rio Grande do Sul. Production data for 1974 indicates a slight increase
in the onion crop in Rio Grande do Sul, although yields remained at the same
level of 7,100 kg/ha. Garlic yields averaged 2,577 kg/ha nationally, with
the South showing 2,941 kg/ha as its average.
17.       Tomato production in the project area represented 70% of the
national production, with 60% in the Southeast, particularly in the States
of Sao Paulo. While national average yields for 1973 were recorded at
19,032 kg/ha due to lower yields in the North and Northeast regions, yields
of 34,785 kg/ha were average in the Center-West region, with 40,228 kg/ha
in the Federal District and 38,432 kg/ha in Goias. Santa Catarina, which in
1973 averaged 20,892 kg/ha went to 22,632 kg/ha in 1975. Since tomatoes can
be grown in practically all the states, the possibilities of increased pro-
duction in the project area is not so much a question of agricultural techno-
logy as one of marketing and agricultural policy.
18.       Manioc is grown all over Brazil and the project area grows half
of the national production. However, no attempt is made to differentiate
between industrial-type manioc suitable for starch production and edible
manioc, which is an important staple of the Brazilian diet, particularly
in the form of "farinha." Processing manioc in Brazil is limited mainly
to the manufacture of starch or farinha and its use in the feed industry,
either as a component of balanced feed or in the form of pellets. In some
of the Caribbean countries, mainly the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico,
deep frozen manioc is being exported to the United States and sold for
domestic consumption.
19.       Average manioc yields in the country were 12,623 kg/ha in 1973 due
to lower yields in the North and Northeast, but in the same year, average
yield for the Center-West was 15,804 kg/ha, with 17,843 kg/ha in Mato Grosso;
14,071 for the South; and 14,056 kg/ha for the Southeast. Other vegetables



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 5
suitable for industrial processing are carrots, peas, green beans and aspara-
gus, but there is no statistical information on these or other truck crops
Rio Grande do Sul is known to be exporting frozen asparagus to Europe, but
again, no figures are available.
20.       Many of the vegetables commonly processed in most developed coun-
tries, such as sweet corn and lima beans are not traditionally consumed in the
domestic market of Brazil, probably because they are not a normal component
of the traditional diet. However, as the pressures of modern life increase
and the demand on time becomes greater, particularly in the large urban
centers, plus the inconvenience caused by problems of distribution because
of urban expansion, it is likely that there will be far less resistance
from the traditional "in natura" consuming public to processed foods.
21.       Reports from Rio Grande do Sul show an estimated potential produc-
tion in the southern part of the state of 8,000 to 10,000 tons of tomatoes,
2,500 to 3,000 tons of asparagus, 3,000 to 4,000 tons of greenbeans, 800 to
1,000 tons of small cucumbers and 300 to 500 tons of small onions for
pickles. Some 80% of the asparagus production is intended for export,
either frozen or canned. Some additional products which are indicated as
having agro-industrial potential in the Pelotas region of Rio Grande do
Sul include sour oranges, guava, carrots, cauliflowe-r, greeanbeans. and
small potatoes.
B. The Industry
Structure
22.       Brazil offers a tremendous growth potential in fruit and vegetable
processing. However, the relatively high cost of metal containers and
readily available household help that can shop for and prepare fresh fruits
and vegetables has slowed expansion. As these conditions change and indi-
vidual purchasing power increases, however, the market for processed items
will become more and more important.
23.       Being a huge country, Brazil has a variety of climatic conditions
that allow a number of different fruits and vegetables to be grown, ranging
from tropical to temperate zone products. Tropical fruits may be canned in
halves or slices, made into jams and in many cases into juices or nectars,
while temperate zone fruits such as apples, peaches and pears can be canned.
Specialty items like berries can be frozen, canned or made into jams, but
pineapples can be sold only as a fresh fruit since varieties grown in Brazil
are not suitable for canning, being less acid than is normally required for
processing. World consumption of canned pineapple products is quite large
and Brazil could possibly become a major producer if it decided to enter
this market by growing suitable varieties.
24.       In the vegetable area, tomato paste has become a world commodity,
and here, too, Brazil has the climatic conditions to grow tomatoes on a



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 6
large commercial scale for export. Many of the other temperate zone vege-
tables are classified as truck crops and are grown for the local fresh
market. Items such as peas, carrots, greenbeans, and asparagus may be
canned or frozen; brussel sprouts and okra are usually frozen; garlic, onions,
peas and carrots can be dehydrated for soups; and potatoes can be prepared
as dehydrated instant mashed or frozen french fries.
25.      WInT tho -praiet area,the canning and freezing industries are con-
centrated in the State of Sao Paulo, though in the last few years, new plants
have been established in Rio Grande do Sul to process temperate zone prod-
ucts. A large tomato paste cannery is being planned in Minas Gerais and
several fruit and vegetable plants are under consideration in Rio de Janeiro
and Espirito Santo.
26.       Fruit and vegetable processing industries are primarily privately
owned national companies, the major ones being Matarazzo, Cica, Praoletti,
Industrias Alimenticias Carlos de Britto, Conservas Alimenticias Hero,
Swift-Armour, and Agape. Many are going into multi-plant operations to take
advantage of the various growing regions in Brazil, which enables them to
manufacture a wide variety of products for national distribution. There
are also many smaller companies that manufacture specialty products such as
hearts of palm, Guayabada (a paste from guavas), jams, and similar items
that are consumed mainly in the producing regions since the limited produc-
tion volume does not warrant national distribution.
27.        At present, canning is the most important method of food preser-
vation though there are a few dehydration and freezing plants either in
operation now or being planned. Freezing offers the greatest future poten-
tial as it does not alter the fresh fruit or vegetable taste as much as
canning or dehydration. The main problem in freezing is in distribution,
which requires refrigerated trucks, cold storage facilities and frozen food
cabinets in the supermarkets. A lack of home freezers is also a deterrent.
Many Brazilian families do not have refrigerators and most of the units that
are available are small, with limited freezer capacity.
28.       Brazil is rapidly becoming one of the world's most important citrus
producers, ranking behind the United States and Japan in total production
although it is already the largest exporter of frozen orange concentrate.
At present, all of the plants are located in the State of Sao Paulo, where
75.6 million trees have been planted, 44% of which are not yet bearing. New
plants have been projected in Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo and additional
plants will be required in Sao Paulo to utilize the fruit from the newer
trees (Table 4).
29.       The average farm size is 40 ha but the newer groves are over 200
ha, which will permit a greater degree of mechanization. Most of the proc-
essors purchase fruit directly from the growers, competing with the fresh
market for their supplies. However, one company is now growing 29% of its
requirements and it is expected to produce 50% by 1977. As the processors



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-4
Page 7
pay the growers a premium price, one of the future developments may be for
the industry to go back to growing at least part of its annual requirements.
30.       The industry at present is composed of eight privately owned
corporations, two of which control 71% of the market, three with about 7% of
the market each, and three newer companies with a total production of 8% of
the market.
Plant Operations
31.       Canning, dehydration, and freezing plants are specialized opera-
tions, each requiring specific lines for the different fruits or vegetables
to be processed. In the developed countries, food processing industries
are based on the large-volume-low-profit-margin-per-item theory. However,
in the developing nations, this is not always possible and, as a result,
two types of plants are in general use. The first is a highly specialized
mass production plant that manufactures items such as concentrated orange
juice; tomato products, mainly paste; and pineapple. The second is a
generalized plant that produces a wide variety of fruits and vegetables
based on seasonal availability. Lines are set up to handle a special item
and are disassembled when the production period for the fruit or vegetable
is over. Equipment for filling, closing, sterilizing, packaging and hand-
ling in the warehouse can be used for many common products. Most of the
plants in Brazil are of the latter type.
32.       The larger fruit and vegetable processing plants are usually
modern and well equipped, though quality control standards and plant sani-
tation may be less stringent than in Western Europe and the United States.
Since the smaller plants lack technically qualified personnel in these
areas, they suffer a greater amount of spoilage or losses due to improper
production methods.
33.       In order to control production and product costs, fruit and vege-
table processing plants should be integrated back into agriculture. Varieties
should be selected to meet climatic conditions in the growing area and be of
the type that will produce a uniform quality, high yielding crop; farmers
should work with the processing plant under a supply agreement as it is im-
possible for companies to compete with the fresh market for raw material; and
plants should have an agronomist or agricultural specialist to assist the
farmers during the growing season to insure that crop damage due to diseases,
insects, or other factors are kept to a minimum and to coordinate harvesting
so that the plant will receive an even flow of raw material to be processed.
34.       The frozen orange concentrate industry is a highly mechanized
large-scale continuous operation that normally runs 24 hours a day during
the season. Fruit is usually brought to the plant in bulk trucks that
dump their contents onto inspection belts so that defective fruit can be
removed. Conveyors elevate the oranges into storage bins where they are
stored according to their brix content. As fruit is needed for production,



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 8
oranges from one or more bins may be mixed to standardize the sugar content
of the juice. The fruit is first carefully washed to remove any pesticides
or insecticides that could contaminate the juice, graded for size, and
then conveyed to the extractors which expel the juice from the fruit and
essential oil from the skins. The juice is pasteurized, concentrated,
cut back by adding fresh juice to the concentrate, put into containers that
go through tunnel freezers and then are held in cold storage until needed
by the export market.
35.       The essential oil from the skins is centrifuged to remove the oil
from the scurry in which it is transported, after which it is stored in a
cool area to allow any remaining solids to settle, decanted and put into
containers for shipment. The waste material such as pulp and skins can be
sold as animal feed in either wet or dried form, depending on market require-
ments.
36.       Eight plants in Sao Paulo are reportedly producing 80% of the
orange juice in Brazil, which would indicate that about 20% of total orange
juice production goes to the home market for soft drinks and the like. How-
ever, that product differs from the frozen concentrate of the Sao Paulo
industry in that processing, quality standards, specifications are much less
vigorous than for the concentrate. Moreover, much of the orange juice for
local consumption may be produced in multi-juice plants.
37.       Juice oranges are grown especially for concentrate purposes and
they differ slightly from the table variety. Table oranges can be processed,
but yield drops substantially. Also, blending problems would arise if such
varieties were used and blended to meet customer specifications in an already
subtle and delicate process. Moreover, the fresh orange market is more
lucrative than the concentrate fruit market. There apparently are large
supplies of tangerines available for crushing but concentration plants do
not like to handle them because they cause problems in the extraction
process due to their smaller size and require time-consuming machinery
adjustments. Down-time and labor costs therefore rise sharply, rendering
tangerine processing less economic.
38.       The processors, however, are obliged to accept a certain volume
of tangerines from the growers and up to 5% of tangerine juice is allowable
by law as a blending ingredient. Such blending is beneficial as it improves
coloring and imparts a fuller taste to the orange juice, and since tangerine
juice always has been regarded as somewhat of a slow mover on the market,
blending is considered an excellent outlet for part of the juice tangerine
supply.
39.       Rejects from the fresh fruit market are generally discarded, as
are rejects from the concentration plants. The reason for this apparently
wasteful practice is that uniform size is important to the proper function-
ing of the extractor machinery. Once the extractors are set up for certain
sizes of oranges, a rigorous grading and screening process must sort out



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 9
the outsizes, particularly the smaller ones. These are usually discarded
because (a) the volume of such fruit does not justify the down-time expense
necessary to adjust the machinery for an extra run, and (b) returns from
sales of such rejects for consumption would be so small as to render too
costly the handling, regrading and distribution to markets. Thus, outright
disposal of rejected fruit is most economical.
40.       Although--TROPISUC-and other processors operate mainly on long-term
supplier contracts with growers, the ideal mode of operation for an enter-
prise would be to produce a substantial portion of its supply of juice
oranges and to contract the remainder. In fact, TROPISUC is planting 20,000
ha in juice and table oranges, the latter to add stability to the concentrate
plant by providing an additional source of income when the fresh fruit
market is buoyant. The grading, washing, cleaning and selection machinery
can be utilized for the table oranges, thus providing a larger base on which
to charge off fixed costs.
41.       The management of the orange juice industry evidently is very alert.
Managements work closely with their import customers and import agents.
Customer blending specifications are strictly adhered to, with the output
constantly subjected to a series of tests. One reason for this is that the
quality varies among growers according to soil, growing conditions and
variety of the juice orange. According to how they test out, batches of
juice are held in a number of refrigerated tanks until an export order is
received. Concentrate is then drawn from the tanks as called for to meet
blend requirements.
Equipment
42.       Most of the machinery for processing citrus must be imported, as
it is specialized equipment that cannot be locally made because of the
limited demand. Stainless steel tanks, conveyors, and washing and grading
equipment all can be obtained locally, but since the plants are usually
designed abroad, much of this machinery is furnished on a turn-key basis.
43.       Brazil does not manufacture high-speed food processing equipment,
but it can supply cold storage machinery, stainless steel tanks, conveyors,
cookers and retorts for sterilization. Argentina is a major supplier for
much of the processing machinery. Packaging equipment is also imported as
is specialized machinery for tomato paste, citrus, pineapple, and IQF
(individually quick freezing) equipment.
44.       The machinery for orange juice extraction is highly specialized
and, due to the development and concentration of this type of operation
in the US, two companies dominate this machinery market -- FMC Corporation
and Brown Company. FMC has a virtual monopoly in Brazil because it offers
good service facilities in Sao Paulo. Brazilian processors would not con-
sider using other machinery because of the servicing factor.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 10
45.       All extractor machinery is leased from FMC and design, layout and
operational planning revolve around it. Leases are for one year, renewable
at the option of the company. However, since it is of mutual interest to
maintain the installations, cancellation by FMC is unheard of. Rentals are
raised from year-to-year in discretionary amounts, depending largely on the
market situation. Rentals did not go up at the latest renewal (1974/75)
because of the difficult export situation.
C. Marketing
Domestic Market
46.       In Brazil, an abundance of reasonably priced fresh fruits and
vegetables are still to be found in the large urban centers. Therefore,
the basic conditions for a massive shift in marketing patterns toward
processed fruits and vegetables are still in formation. This is particularly
true of frozen products and juice concentrates and of certain dehydrated
vegetables. New developments in the coming years undoubtedly will favor
the broadening of high-volume marketing of processed foods. Major factors
are likely to be:
(a) gradually increasing transport and handling costs will cause
a shift in the ratio fresh/processed fruit and vegetable price
relationships due to the more economic distribution charac-
teristics of packaged foods, thus encouraging consumer demand
for the latter;
(b) the broadening network of supermarket chains - which now
handle 60% of the grocery trade in Rio de Janeiro and 40%
of the Sao Paulo market - is providing the basic infra-
structure for modern high-volume, mass merchandising of
frozen and packaged foods. As unit costs decline for food
processing due to increasing volume and concentrated dis-
tribution, trends in relative prices should favor processed
foods;
tc) changing life styles of the urban Brazilian, particularly
the working woman, will reinforce preferences for processed
foods that require less time and effort in preparation.
They will also have less time to devote to frequent shopping;
and
(d) rising income levels will permit storing of food in larger
quantities.
This will involve, in effect, an extension of the modern marketing infrastruc-
ture into the home in the form of larger capacity refrigerator-freezers.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 11
47.       Because of the climatic conditions prevailing in Brazil, most local
markets away from the major urban centers are adequately served by fresh
regional production. This high-cost cross-country handling, which would
raise fruit and vegetable prices to inordinate levels that smaller local
markets could not sustain, is not an essential factor in the domestic
economy.
48.       Fruit and vegetable processing at-the present time would seem to
have less priority from an overall consumption point of view than, say, beef
and poultry processing and the dairy industry.
49.       An important change in regulations governing the manufacture of
fruit juices, setting specific mimimum contents of natural juices in products
labelled as fruit juice, will have the effect of raising substantially the
volume going to domestic consumption. However, this increase in demand
should be adequately handled by the existing juice and soft drink industry
that services public establishments such as bars, sandwich stands, and
restaurants.
Export Market
50.       At this point, there would appear to be great potential for devel-
opment of fruit and vegetable processing industries directed mainly toward
the export market. Certain products for which foreign markets already
have been developed, or traditional products that can be grown in Brazil
could be promoted and marketed. Notable among these are several juices other
than frozen orange juice, viz. grape juice, pineapple juice and maracuja.
51.       Because the economics of fresh fruit distribution allow for a wide
variety of fruits for consumption in the local market, there has been little
incentive to promote frozen concentrate there. The main export destinations
are Germany, United States, the Netherlands, Canada and Sweden (Table 5).
The U.S. trade is based on equivalent re-exports to Japan or to other markets,
in accordance with U.S. regulations limiting citrus imports. The Netherlands
is considered an entrepot, from which shipments of Brazilian concentrate are
sent to various parts of the Continent. Total exports in recent years are
summarized below:
('000 tons)          (US$'000)       (US$/ton)
1968              30,096               11,631           386
1969              23,245               10,910           469
1970              33,468               14,736           440
1971              77,334               35,859           464
1972              87,156               41,499           476
1973             120,989               63,622           526
1974             108,000               60,480           560
1975 (4 M)        51,000                n.a.            n.a.
Source:   CACEX.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 12
The preliminary four-month total for 1975 compares favorably with the cor-
responding 1974 figure of 21,000 tons. Although that is not a clear indica-
tion of basic trends because sharp periodic fluctuations in shipments are
always a possibility, it does lend an encouraging tone to the current situation.
Projections indicate a doubling of orange juice exports within 8 years (Table 6).
52.       The most dynamic trade, aside from the orange juice concentrate,
has been in grape juice, which was first exported in 1971. From the 9.2 tons
exported that year, volume has increased to reach about 4,400 tons in 1974
(Table 7) for a total export value estimated at US$3.4 million. Unit value
has gone from US$348 per ton to US$766 per ton in that period. Shipments
have been mainly to the US, but Germany and Japan are also promising markets.
53.       Maracuja juice shipments are on a smaller scale, but they grew
from 72 tons in 1970 to more than 1,300 tons in 1974 (Table 8), valued at
US$10 million. South Africa, Sweden and the U.S. are the principal markets,
with the Netherlands and Germany also taking substantial shares. Unit
value rose from US$493 per ton in 1970 to US$784 per ton in 1974 (Table 7).
54.       Pineapple juice exports have expanded dramatically, going from 169
tons in 1970 to over 1,700 tons in 1974, valued at about US$78,000. Unit
values have increased from US$355 per ton to US$454 per ton. The US and
Argentina are the main destinations, but Portugal, Germany and France are
also good markets (Table 7).
55.       Only oranges are shipped in volume as fresh fruit, but they are
far over shadowed by orange juice concentrate as an export item. East
Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom are the main customers,
although Iran became a sizeable market in 1974. Orange shipments have not
followed a definite trend, averaging about 50,000 tons in the 1970-74
period. Values, however, have risen from US$3.4 million to an estimated
US$8.7 million over that period, reflecting higher unit values, which have
gone from 1JS$67 per ton to US$147 per ton (Table 8).
56.       There is scope for exports of specialty items such as asparagus,
palmito (already being shipped), brussels sprouts, okra, broccoli, various
specialty beans, guava (as paste or preserves), and various berries, most
of which can be canned or frozen. Tomato products are probably the largest
single vegetable product traded and the market is growing despite the
numerous countries taking a share of it.
57.       In the promotion of large-scale exports of fruits and vegetables,
uniformity of taste, appearance and quality are the essential elements to
attain. In that respect, it is of utmost importance to coordinate the
production and processing activities closely so that the most desirable
product is available to work with. In export-oriented agro-industries of
this type, some form of vertical integration is the most likely formula for
a successful enterprise.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
Page 13
Prices
58.       Shipments of orange juice were down substantially in 1974/75 due to
lagging demand in Europe. About 3,000 tons of a 10,000-ton output were in
storage at TROPISUC, in Campinas in May 1975. However, some renewed interest
was reported by the firm's agents in the Netherlands and Germany and prospects
appeared good that the stocks would be disposed of by August or September of
this year before the new crop comes in for crushing. Current export values
were US$350 per ton for oil. Brazilian exporters are confident that they can
dispose of projected increases in plant output because they can underprice
other exporting countries. The US$350 per ton price quoted by TROPISUC
management is sharply lower than the US$450 level quoted by other sources in
early 1975.



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Profile of Selected Fruit Suitable for Processing
(1913)
Tropical. Sub-tropical and Temperate Climate Fruits
Oranges  Tangerines  Lemons       Papaya    Mango       Persimmon   Peach    Apple        tear      Grape       Pineapple
Area Harvested (ha)
South                         27.675      8.863      2.418          41    1.387         1,480    14,701   1.579    3.108        42,072           3.354
Rio Grande do Sul             18,288      4,333      1,304           8      -           1,145    13,687   1,043    2,326         35,620          2,111
Sta. Catarina                  3,246      1,916        133         -        -              106       535      382       540       4,339             853
Parana                         6,141      2,614        981          33    1,387           .229       569      154       242       2,113            390
Southeast                    391.387    14.877       9.172       3.714   11.800         1,969      1,782   2,202        912      13,346         13,478
Sao Paulo                    328,789      9,260      6,494         998    2,584         1,557      1,167   2,096        619      11,031          5,930
Minas Gerais                  34,979      1,882      1,286         100    7,889             76        584      48       239       2,240          5,585
Espirito Santo                 3,249        968        129         374      321              2         11       1         8          61          1,235
Rio de Janeiro                21,961      2,653      1,242       2,162      556            296         20      57        46          14             726
Guanabara                      2,409        114         21          80      450             38        -       -         -           -                 2
Center West                    5,036        694        414          22    1.774              1         38     -         -             2          4.151
Goias                          2,690        509        263         -      1,603            -            1     -         -           -            2,510
Mato Grosso                    2,283        171         34          18       171             1         37     -         -              2          1,613
Federal District                  63         14        117           4       -             -          -       -         -           -                28
Project Area                 424.098    24.434    12.004         3.777   14.961         3.450    16,521   3.781    4,020         55,420         20,983
Brazil                       449.276    26,116    14,609         4.399   38,402          3.450    16,611   3.781    4.020        55,699         33.916
Production ('000 fruit)
South                      2.098,063   907.394   229,885           476   53.234         80,138 1,260,691  48,818  177.391    299,617            31.332
Rio Grande do Sul          1,150,642   446,709   119,562             6       -          59,821 1,175,977  26,336  112,076    242,940             24,486
Sta. Catarina                394,303   224,467    16,426           -         -           5,199    38,343  17,221   44,089        42,264          4,726
Parana                       553,118   236,218    93,897           470   53,234        15,118    46,371   5,261   21,226         14,413           2,120
Southeast                 20,515,503 1.355.973 1.073.759        70.533  508.434       113.538   131.632  62,505   42,548         93,725        148.757
Sao Paulo                 16,305,246   872,847    20,260        22,966  109,464        93,789    87,115  61,257   26,504         83,459          58,631
Minas Gerais               2,546,142   148,850    99,817           779  350,610          5,370    42,009       838   12,666       9,982          59,602
Espirito Santo               223,945    58,131       6,088       3,506    9,035            140        730       52      758         177          21,559
Rio de Janeiro             1,214,588   254,735   144,759        43,090   16,811         11,230      1,778      358    2,620          107          8,951
Guanabara                    225,582    21,410       2,835         192   22,514          3,009        -        -        -              -             14
Center West                  467.654    78.281    48.613           132  127,590             62      3.260      -        -             18         22.177
Goias                        300,367    24,456    37,920           -    119,351            -          100      -         -           -           15,450
Mato Grosso                  163,190    52,045       3,673          96  127,590             62      3,160      -         -            18          6,294
Federal District               4,097      1,780      7,020          36       -             -          -        -         -           -              433
Project Area              23.081,220 2,341,648 1.352,257        71.141  689.258        193,738 1,395,583 111.323  219.939    393,360            202.266
Brazil                    24,646,462 2.515,197 1.615.943        74.742 1.864,733       193,738 1,395.583 111,323  219,939    393,360            325,229   1 
. x
Source: IBGE - CBEA.
July 1975



HIARIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Citrus Froflle (1969-1975)
1969/70   1970   1971   1972   1973    1974   1975
National Production (Thoaard bomes         20,000      -      -       -        -     85,ooo      -
vatronwL  ISoCUCT _ n Thou9ana tonse
Oranges                                          3,099   3,200   3,300   2,800  3,500   4,200
Tangerines                                         245    260      280     280     300     315
Lemons and Limes                                   54      57      58      60      65       70
National Planted Area (Thousand heotares)
Oranges                                           150    183       202     212      -       -
Sao Paulo Citrus Industry
Trees (Thoxsand)
Total trees                                39,000 44,000 50,200  56,500  75,600        -
New non-bearing trees /1                   10s,500 13,200 15,500  16,500  33,000
Trees in produotion                        28s500 30#800  340700 409000 42s600         -
Production (Thousand boxes)
Total produotion                           441,350 46,ooo  60,700  56,000  72,000      -
Tangerines /2                                _       -       -      8,000  8,200       -
Grapefruit /3                                _       _       _       150      170      _
Lemons and limas /3                          _       _       -      5,600   5,700      -
ConsumPtioli (ThJ""dg bQos)                                                              ;
DamajwL. aonsumption                       23,1400 14,440 18,000  jp,000  22,000       -
Processed fruit                            15s,000 25,000 35s000  349000 42,000        -
Juice indastry consumption                   _-              -    34,000    -
Current installed capacity                   -       _       _ 45-47#000   -
Average 4!Lld per tree  boxe)                     -       _      1.75    1.40   1.69        -
Eaparts (Thousand tons)-
CY fresh orauges exports                   51,160  64s,113  66,634  43,800  45s000     -
CY juiae ooncentrate exports               79,222 77,334  87,157 119s000 110.000       -
/1 Trees under three years of age.
/2 40.8 kg boxes.
/3 35.0 kg boxes.
Source: Agricultural Attache, US Embassy, Brasilia & Agricultural office, Sao Paulo.                               0  X
July 1975



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
BRAZIL                           Table 3
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Profile of Selected Vegetables Suitable for Processing
(1973)
Garlic      Potato      Onion       Manioc      Tomato
Area Harvested (ha)                           -
Brazil                     11,531       188,644    49,303    2,103,991    42,524
Project Area              10,460       179,504          43,103  925,382    28,074
South                      4,847          117,267    28,869     526,643      3,905
Parana                   2,233        44,855      5,345        91,608      1,040
Sta. Catarina               670       17,317      3,932       161,708        841
Rio Grande do Sul         1,944       55,095    19,592        273,327      2,024
Southeast                  4,914        61,174    14,040        291,397    23,505
Minas Gerais             4,139        30,509      1,744       121,655      2,586
Espirito Santo               79           702       253        53,741        806
Rio de Janeiro              132        2,103         70        30,913      1,869
Sao Paulo                  564        27,86Q    11,973         85,088    18,244
Center West                   699         1,063        194      107,342        664
Mato Grosso                 455           -          162       35,798        131
Goias                       244         1,039         21       71,389        419
Federal District            -              24         11           155       114
Production (tons)
Brazil                     29,711    1,336,766   305,520   26,558,535   809,316
Project Area               26,855    1,312,233   262,889   13,202,886   577,467
South                      14,256       776,423   179,653    7,410,590    63,329
Parana                   2,233       326,861    17,642    1,884,392    19,345
Sta. Catarina               670      117,589    23,478    2,297,852    17,570
Rio Grande do Sul         1,944      331,973   138,533    3,228,346    26,414
Southeast                  11,400      530,047    82,546    4,095,866   491,041
Minas Gerais              8,856       199,411     9,602    1,814,024    38,197
Espirito Santo              111        5,753        583       415,532    17,167
Rio de Janeiro              146         3,938        158      389,659    53,393
Sao Paulo                2,287       320,949    72,203    1,476,651   382,179
Center West                 1,199         5,763        690    1,696,430    23,097
Mato Grosso                 576           -          577      638,734      2,408
Goias                       623        5,568          66    1,055,357    16,103
Federal District            -             195         47        2,339      4,586
Source: IBGE - CBEA.
July 1975



ANNEX 7-
Appendix 7-1
Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Orange Juice Production in
the State of Sao Paulo
(1975-1985)
Year                                Production /L
(tons)
1975                                   154
1976                                   166
1977                                   178
1978                                   191
1979                                   205
1980                                   220
1981                                   237
1982                                   255
1983                                   274
1984                                   295
1985                                   317
/1 Average growth rate: 7.5%.
Source: IPEA.
July 1975



BRaZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Exports of Orange Juice
Tons                                             USS'OOO f.o.b.                                         US$/ton
1970      1971       1972        1973         1974        1970         1971        1972        1973        1974    1970  1971   1972  1973   1974
Germany                    19,050.4  28,011.4  3,138.5       55,290.9    33,875.6    8,675.4    12,216.7   14,847.6   29,215.8   18,640.4   455.0  436.0  473.0  528.0  550.0
Belgium and Luxembourg        288.3      836.4  1,588.1       1,322.1      1,626.0       144.6        353.9      741.3       647.7       852.1   502.0  423.0  467.0  490.0  524.0
Canada                      4,289.1  10,423.5  10,664.0       8,793.2      7,445.7    1,784.4       5,940.2    5,142.2    4,293.1    4,128.4   416.0  570.0  482.0  488.0  554.0
Deunark                       190.3      692.9    708.4         834.2        529.9        86.8        292.2      342.1        395.1      298.4   456.0  422.0  483.0  474.0  563.0
Spain                         151.6       99.8    469.7         449.9        326.0        68.4         47.9      241.7        199.0      149.6   451.0  480.0  515.0  442.0  459.0
United States               1,005.2  23,395.0  17,655.3    10,982.8       23,111.8       426.6    11,925.9    8,598.4    6,204.7   12,018.3   424.0  510.0  487.0  565.0  520.0
Finland                        10.2      105.1    404.6       1,086.2        929.1         4.9         46.5       194.8       544.1       534.4   480.0 442.0  481.0  501.0  575.0
Israel                      1,972.5      250.0  1,221.3       2,671.4      1,100.0       845.7         91.5       560.6     1,294.4       616.0   429.0  366.0  459.0  485.0  560.0
Japan                          10.6                153.5        104.9        123.4         5.0                     77.8        64.2        76.0   500.0         507.0  612.0  616.0
NoiFway                       151.1      437.4    395.9         395.5        667.5        72.6        194.0       191.3       199.2       337.4   480.0  444.0  483.0  504.0  505.0
Net0wrlands                 4,103.3   8,817.7  14,601.6    26,064.3        20,658.0    1,662.2      3,847.7    6,709.5   13,785.8   11,200.4   405.0  436.0  460.0  529.0  542.0
United Kingdom                582.4      777.3    724.4         456.0         591.9      216.2        313.9       355.5       234.2       324.6   371.0  404.0  491.0  514.0  548.0
Sweden                      1,041.0   2,484.4  6,568.7    10,380.9         15,346.2      465.2      1,114.8    3,213.2      5,401.9    8,733.0   447.0  449.0  489.0  520.0  569.0
France                                   538.5    815.5         695.9         240.2                   250.0       283.1       361.8       136.0           464.0  460.0  520.0  566.0
Poland                                                          851.3         749.9             1                             422.5     - 469.0                         496.0  625.0
Switzerland                                                     313.5         201.7                                           178.1       102.3                        568.0  507.0
Auatralia                                                                     212.0                                                       118.7                                560.0
Venezuela                                                                     724.9                                                       434.9                                600.0
Others/lI                     622.9      465.1                  297.7                                 218.5                   180.9               467.0  470.0          608 .0
Total              33,468.3  77,334.5  87,156.0   120,989.7    108,459.8   14,736.2    36,853.7   41,499.1   63,622.5   59,169.9  440.0  477.0 470,0  526.0  546.0
/1 South Africa, Bolivia, Mozambique, Senegal, Neth. Antilles, Paraguay, Portugal.
Source: CACEX.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Projected Orange Juice Exports
(1975-1985)
('000 tons)
Port and Industry       1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Port  Of  Santos          139   149   160    176    190   204    220   238    255    274    293
Industrias Pau-
listas ........           139    149   160    172   185    1 98   213   230    247    266  1285
Indristrias   de
Alfenas .......             _      _      _       4       5      6      7      8       8      8     8
Port.  o  Vit6ria          _        3      5      6       8     10     11     12      13     14     J.4
Aigrossucos  S.A.           _       3      5       6      8     10    '11     12      13     14     14
TOTAL_                   139   152    165    182   198   214   231    250    288    288 i 307
Source: IPEA.
July 1975
M..
o' I> >
a 4_



BRAZIL                                         ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-1
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT                         Table 7
Exports of Pineapple. Grape and Maracuia Juice
Pineapple Juice
Number of                   Tons                                   fo.b.                     US   r ton/2
Year  Countries/l  1970   1973  TM    1973  1972 '970   197   1972  1973   19712 1970  197    197  1973  1974-
1970       1        168.8                                59.8                                355
19 71      1                328.2                               112.9                               345
1972     11                         721.4                              256.1                               355
1973      15                               598.1                              193.9
1974      13                                    1,151.                               523.1
Li Argentina, Germany, Belgium & luxembourg, Bolivia, Denmark, United States, France,
Netherlands, Paraguay, United Kingdan, Sweden, Neth. Antilles, Canada, Portagal,
Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Kuwait, Spain, Lebanon.
L2. January-August.
Grape Juice
1970      0           0                                   0                                   0
1971       2                  9.2                                 3.2                               348
1972       7                        118.2                               76.8                               650
1973       9                              2,533.2                           1,622                                640
1974       5                                    2,978.                             2,280.7                              766
/1 Canada, Trinidad & Tobago, Germany, Neth. Antilles, United States, Paraguay, Portugal,
Puerto Rico, Salvador, Bolivia, Japan, Norway, Dosd.nrdan Republic.
Zi January-August.
Maracuja Juice
Numbter of                Tons               /2           Us$OOO f.o.b.          /2           USer ton
Year  CountriesL/i 1970   1971   1972   1973  l97t   1970   197T  1972   173   1974  1970   1971                1973   1974'
1970       3          72                                35.5                                493
1971       4                14.6                                11                                 753
1972       7                      326.2                               213                                 653
1973     11                              533.7                              567.2                              1,063
1974      12                                   886.5                               694.6                               7814
/1 Germany, United States, Sweden, France, Bolivia, Netherlands, Paraguay, Australia,
Belgium & Luxembourg, Canada, South Africa, Switzerland, Kuwait, Japan, Lebanon,
Portugal.
/2 January-August.
Source: CACEX.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Exports of Fresh Oranges
Tons                                                  US$ 000 f.o.b.                                         S/o
1970       1971          1972         1973        1974        1970       1           1          1                              1971    1972      1973      1974
Germany                  10,851.3    8,691.9       4,141.1      5,751.1           .6      742.9       576.1      270.1       639.0         .5       68       66      65       111      833
East Germany              1,592.5    5,922.9       3,600.0      4,230.0    10,080.0       113.8       410.8      330.0       497.0    1,456.0       71       69      92       117      144
Canada                    1,441.3    2,397.5       1,330.0        630.0                   105.2       219.2       118.1       64.8                  73       91      89       103
Finland                   2,068.8    1,802.5       1,863.8      1,470.0      1,793.8      138.5       113.0       117.Z      157.1       239.2      67       63      63       107      133
France                    7,000.0    3,038.0       3,553.5      1,034.3        579.5      497.6       190.9      224.9        97.3       84.1       71       63      63       94       145
Hongkong                    899.5       250.4        341.3        175.0        145.3       82.2        25.0        37.2       24.0        26.7      91      100     109      137       184
Norway                       93.2                    297.9        115.5        252.1        5.7                    17.8        9.4        35.0      61               60       81       139
Netherlands               9,084.1                 30.273.5    16,809.1    19,396,4        618.0                 2,226.2    1,660.5    2,742.3       68               74       99        141
Portugal                     17.5                                                           1.7                                                     97
Senegal                   1,225.3                                              262.5       97.8                                           46.5      80                                  177
Sweden                      818.1                    262.5         40.3         52.5       54.0                    16.5        4.6         9.3      66               63      114        177
United Kingdom           13,364.8                 16,599.7      8,243.6      3,583.1      825.3                   998.8      617.2       445.9      62               60       75        124
Belgium  and Luxembourg               1,232.9        830.9                                             77.6        52,8                                      63      64
Poland                                               385.0        425.0        540.0                               36.1      50.5         92.5                       94      119        171
Czechoslovakia                                     3,012.3      1,803.6                                           281.5     241.6                                     93     134
Iran                                                                         2,625.0                                                     592.5                                          226
Others                    2,721.2    1,640.6          141.8       106.8        208.8       161.4      104,9        13.7      14.7         38.8       59      64       97     138        186
Total               51,160.1   24,976.7      66,633.3    40,834.3    39,519.6    3,442.4    1,717.5    4,740,9    4,077.7    5,809.3           67       69       71     100        147
am Xm
July 1975



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-2
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Egg Processing
A. Production
1.        Egg production in Brazil is not as carefully recorded as other
agricultural products. Statistics on poultry do not even separate chicken
raised for meat from those raised as egg layers, nor had there been an effort
until recently to develop specific laying breeds. Except for the relatively
more developed states the general trend is still to use double-purpose breeds
such as the New Hampshire, Rhode Island Reds or a cross-breed of these.
2.        Egg production in 1973 reached 461,430,000 in the project area
(Table 1) and the estimated production for 1974 was 500 million dozen eggs.
Assuming a 10% annual growth of GDP, of the Instituto Paulista de Economia
Agricola, expectations (IPEA) are that egg production will grow at a rate of
7.4% annually. Production of a specialized egg is also expected to start in
1975 -- genic-free eggs for the use in the preparation of human and animal
vaccines, but this of course is an activity limited in volume.
3.        Commercial production of eggs is concentrated in the center-south
of Brazil, in the Sao Paulo - northern Parana - southern Minas Gerais poultry
belt.  Output is estimated at 500 million dozen annually, said to be 97% of
total national production, which places total commercial egg output in Brazil
at approximately 515 million dozen. Although production is concentrated geo-
graphically, it is logical from the standpoint of climatic conditions and
availability of feedstuff being based generally in the grain belts. Egg pro-
duction in 1973 in the project area is given in Table 1. It is the tremendous
distances to markets that pose the question of expansion to other areas.
Development of virgin areas in upper Mato Grosso and Goias for soybean and
cereal production should encourage poultry enterprises to locate there where
they will have a significant advantage in feed transport costs. That margin
may be sufficient to provide the necessary incentive.
4.        Because of the predominating double-purpose orientation of egg pro-
ducers and uncertainties of the market, the emphasis on meat or egg produc-
tion changes from time to time. In 1973, birds for meat showed a slight in-
crease over birds for eggs (29% increase and 23% decrease, respectively).
However, probably because of increases in production costs and smaller demand
than expected, the egg-layers showed a slight gain over the broilers in 1974
(Table 2).



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-2
Page 2
5.        A review of the distribution of layers and broilers during the
1969/75 period confirms the flexibility of producers to adjust to changes in
market conditions and the fact that Sao Paulo accounts for about 90 to 95% of
the production of the country allows conclusions on production in that state
to be applied to the industry as a whole. Annual production of layers and
broilers in the State of Sao Paulo is given below:
Year           White Eggs          Brown Eggs         Broilers
1969           565,900               135,700          2,470,700
1970           670,281               118,900          2,545,355
1971           606,650               161,763          3,114,463
1972           472,654               173,149          3,905,843
1973           516,489               115,644          3,907,234
1974           423,762               101,263          5,280,646
1975 /1         18,400                16,169            380,162
/1   January 1975.
Source: Revista Avicultura Industrial.
6.        Typical of a large egg-producing operation is the cooperative COTIA,
which operates in western Sao Paulo, northern Parana and southern Minas
Gerais. The cooperative has some 500 members, each producing an average
500 cases of 30 dozen eggs per month, bringing total production to an esti-
mated 90 million dozen eggs per year. The area of operation extends some
600 to 1,000 km from the central collection point of the cooperative into the
neighboring states. Its industrial sales amount to approximately 20% of
total sales, representing a volume of 100 million dozen or 3.3 million cases,
per year.
B. The Industry
7.        There is substantial potential for expansion of egg processing
plants in Brazil based on the Sun-Egg model, a plant to be established in
the State of Sao Paulo with financing from Agro-industries Credit Project I.
This plant has an input of 150,000 eggs per day, or 416.7 cases per day,
which in 270 working days result in 112,509 cases per year.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-2
Page 3
C. Marketing
Domestic Market
8.        Consumption of eggs in Brazil follows the geographic patterns of
production and efficient rapid transport, i.e., eggs are consumed mainly in
the poultry belt and in the large urban centers where the volume distributed
results in low unit transport costs. An estimate of 5.1 kg per capita con-
sumption of eggs undoubtedly applies only to such areas because the high
price in other parts of the country -- where transport costs can exceed the
value of the eggs themselves -- is prohibitive for the general population.
In any case commercial egg production, estimated at 500 million plus dozen,
allows for only about 3.5 kg per capita on the average, since a dozen eggs
weigh no more than 0.65 to 0.7 kg. 1/
9.        Members of COTIA market their eggs through the cooperative, one of
the largest egg marketing organizations in Brazil. Unrefrigerated COTIA
trucks travel at night from collection centers to Sao Paulo (JAGUARE).
Typically, a trip such as from Londrina (PR) to Sao Paulo, would be 570 km and
the tariff Cr$ 1,500. The average load is 500 cases so cost would be Cr$ 300
per case, or Cr$ 0.1 per dozen. Trucking to COTIA is charged to the producer,
and the cost is deducted at time of payment. At an average value of, say,
Cr$ 3.30 per dozen, transport cost for the producer amounts to 9% of his
revenue.
10.       On deliveries, overall transport costs average Cr$ 1.00 per km per
truck with 500 cases. The eggs are shipped across the country, the farthest
point being Manaus. Trucks go as far as Porto Velho in Rondonia and there
boats take over and carry the eggs up to Manaus -- a distance over 3,500 km
from Sao Paulo. The shipment is unrefrigerated, but there is practically no
spoilage. Other distant markets are Belem, Bahia and other localities in
the Amazon region. Although transport costs to distant markets are substan-
tial, the prices obtained compensate for them.
11.       Producers receive the bulk of the value of the product under the
cooperative system and presumably private intermediaries meet the coopera-
tive's returns at the producer level. Some of the very large producers,
however, apparently make their own marketing arrangements since dealing
directly with distributor or retail organizations could save overhead charges
that the cooperative would have to deduct. Also large producers may be in a
position to supply distant centers and gain on whatever transport and hand-
ling savings they can achieve. The table below summarizes the cost structure 2/
of the egg market in May 1975.
1/   Based on 100 million population and five dozen eggs per bird per year.
2/   COTIA, calculation based on extra grade.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-2
Page 4
Producer price                  Cr$ 3.50 per dozen
Packing handling                Cr$ 0.50 per dozen
Wholesale commission (10%)    Cr$ 0.40 per dozen
Wholesale price                 Cr$ 4.40 per dozen
Retail margin (15%)            Cr$ 0.66 per dozen
Retail price                    Cr$ 5.06 per dozen
Actual Retail price in Porto Alegre 5.00 - 7.00 per dozen
Bahia-Manaus + 12.00 per dozen
12.       The market for eggs is roughly 80% direct consumption sales and 20%
industrial demand -- bakeries, confectioners, and other food industries. All
the trade has been in fresh eggs so far, except for a negligible quantity of
processed imports. However, a processed egg industry is likely to develop
rapidly to meet industrial demand, following the pattern in other industrial-
ized countries where egg-cracking and freezing plants have been in operation
for four decades or more. The supply of bulk. egg yolk and albumen separately
in either frozen or liquid chilled form has long been known to be more econo-
mical than transporting and handling eggs since breakage and spoilage are
virtually eliminated. A changeover to handle bulk frozen yolk and albumen for
the industrial market would require about 30 plants in the project area with
capacity similar to that of the Sun-Egg plant in Sao Paulo.
13.       In 1974, an estimated 5.3 million broilers were produced in the
State of Sao Paulo and 0.5 million laying chicken. In that state alone,
therefore, some 0.5 million dozen eggs were utilized for new stock 1/. The
national commercial hatching requirement can be estimated at roughly 491,000
dozen for broilers and 46,000 dozen for laying stock. That production is in
addition to the supply of eggs for human consumption. Imports of fertilized
eggs of about 20,000 dozen, mainly for breeding stock, were registered in 1974.
That trade, of course, will continue as it is a prime requisite for constantly
improving the breeding stock.
Prices
14.       Price structure follows the size scale.  There is minor fluctuation
between the grades, reflecting largely seasonal availabilities. At mid-May
1975, average wholesale quotations were as follows:
1/   Excluding unhatched eggs which could amount to an undetermined but im-
portant percentage.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-2
Page 5
Grade (Type)   1          Cr$ 3.50 per dozen
2         Cr$ 3.40 per dozen
3         Cr$ 3.30 per dozen
4         Cr$ 3.00 per dozen
5         Cr$ 2.30 per dozen
15.       Grading and selection generally are done by the producer.  At the
farm level, rejects run about 5% to 7%. These edible rejects usually are
sold on the farm or in the immediate locality by the producer. Although the
total volume of rejects may be large, it is not economical to collect and
handle them, because the quantities at the individual producer level are too
small, and the value of the product is too low to cover extra handling costs
and to yield a satisfactory return. At the larger center in Jaguare, rejects
and losses run about 0.05% of turnover, a low rate indeed. However, on the
turnover of COTIA at Jaguare with about 90 million dozen per year, the per-
centage works out to 45,000 dozen.
16.       Grading according to size is based on the following system of
weights.
No. of Grams         Percent
Distribution
Type 1 (Extra)   60 plus               15
Type 2 (Extra)   55 - 60               45
Type 3            50 - 55              35
Type 4            45 - 50               4
Type 5            up to 45              1
Slight premiums for all grades may be obtained for brown eggs in rural areas,
and the contrary may be true in urban areas. These consumer preferences are
similar to the pattern in the US. The difference in taste is traditional
from earlier periods when brown eggs were heavier and contained richer col-
ored yolks. However, the new breeds of white-egg laying chicken produce
equivalent size and coloring.
17.       Egg prices show a strong seasonal pattern that characterizes all
markets around the world. In Brazil, quotations are usually registered in
April, and the low point usually occurs around October. Seasonal highs and
lows in 1974 were as follows:



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-2
Page 6
Average Wholesale Price - Case of 30 dozen
Sao Paulo       Guanabara
April         Cr$ 120.00       Cr$ 114.00
October       Cr$  82.00       Cr$  71.50



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-2
Table 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Egg Production and Production Value
in the Project Area
(1973)
Chicken Eggs                         Other Eggs
'000                                1000
dozen      %    Cr$ '000       %    dozen   %  Cr$ '000   %
Brazil                        523,020   100   1,590,421   100   4,741  100  13,683   100
Project Area                  461,430    89   1,352,323    84   2,948   62   7,699    56
South                         159,263    30       472,407    29   1,862   39   4,711    34
Parana                       52,216    10       148,816      9     418    9   1,127       8
Sta. Catarina                28,462      5      79,977      5      913   19   2,282    16
Rio Grande do Sul            78,585    15      243,614    15       531   11   1,302    10
Southeast                     278,661    54      796,506    50       877   18   2,312    17
Minas Gerais                 37,126      7      112,862     7      398    8   1,155       8
Espirito Santo               13,383      3       42,903      3      53    1      118      1
Rio de Janeiro /1            36,383      7      109,150      7     123    3      312      2
Sao Paulo                   191,910    37      531,391    33       303    6      727      6
Center West                    23,506      5       83,410      5     210    4      676      5
Mato Grosso                   7,247      2       26,017      2      89    2      327      2
Goias                        16,616      3       55,124      3     117    2      384      3
Federal District                643      -        2,269      -       4    -       15      -
/1 Includes the old States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source: IBGE.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Monthly Layer and Broiler Population in the State of Sao Paulo
(1973-1974-1975)
L a y e r s
White Eggs                    Brown Eggs                     B r o i I e r s
1973     1974      1975       1973      1974    1975       1973         1974      1975
January        31,030   32,160   18,400       2,300    5,400   16,169    273,401    384,503   380,162
February        28,350   45,150               4,550    4,600               342,878    385,126
March           36,253   22,000               3,500    5,000               341,004    403,140
April           36,900   37,576               8,400    6,818               224,225    395,557
May             22,540   28,800              10,600    3,000               261,974    409,508
June           60,756   45,850               17,485    9,690               338,502    469,259
July            52,140   47,000              16,247    6,550               314,177    440,236
August          46,120   33,660               6,012   15,375               344,941    505,851
September      43,640   49,250               10,100    6,010               363,905    487,368
October        64,000   41,656               13,100   11,850               347,882    489,138
November        55,500   15,560              15,650   15,500               380,537    440,207
December        39,260   25,100               7,700   11,670               373,808    470,753
Total    516,489  423,762   18,400   115,644  101,263   16,169  3,907,234  5,280,646   380,162
Source:  Revista de Avicultura Industrial - No. 82, February 1975.                                             a
July 1975



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Hides, Skins, and Wool Processing
A. Production
1.        A study made in relation to a project for the construction of a
tannery in the State of Sao Paulo (SCARBORD - Couros Finos S.A.) indicates
a domestic demand for tanned cattle hides of 11.8 million in 1975, and of
23 million in 1984, assuming that the shoe and leather goods industries will
grow at the rates of 9% and 3%, respectively. An estimated 10.2 million head
for slaughter in 1975 (App. 4-1) would indicate a deficit of 1.6 million hides
in 1975, but such a situation is not supported by the stock of hides presently
held by various slaughterhouses.
2.        Hide and skin exports, which in 1969 had reached 76,679 tons, had
dwindled in 1974 to 6,313 for the January through October period, reflecting
the increasing trend to keep production for the domestic market, regardless
of the apparent export potential to Europe, indicated by a 53% annual growth
of tanned hide exports in the 1963-72 period. A resolution of the National
Foreign Trade Council (CONCEX), prohibited the export of raw hides and skins
as well as wet chrome-tanned hides with a view to regulating the domestic
supply of raw materials to tanneries.
3.        Since ox-hides are normally a by-product of slaughterhouses and
meat packing plants, the supply of raw materials is directly related to beef
production. Likewise, expansion of the hide-processing industry is largely
a question of market and expansion of the beef-processing industry. With a
projected beef production of 2,862,000 tons in 1980 (Appendix 4-1) and an
average carcass yield of 220 kg per head, an estimated 13 million ox-hides in
1980 seems reasonable.
4.        Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (IBGE) statistics
show a 1973 sheep population in Brazil of 17,949,362 head, of which the pro-
ject area carried 77%, concentrated largely (95%) in the State of Rio Grande
do Sul. Other sources estimate the sheep population at 26 million head in
that year and at 26.5 million in 1974, but no statistical data are offered
to substantiate these considerably larger figures. Of the 13,789,746 sheep
recorded in 1973 for the project area, 87% were sheared, producing a reported
34,234 tons of wool (Table 1), considerably below the 36,500 tons estimated
for the year by other sources.
5.        Sheep ranching is carried out mostly in Rio Grande do Sul, where
sheep are usually raised in combination with cattle. Since returns from



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
Page 2
beef production in recent years have been higher than those from sheep and
wool, and available resources from private enterprise and Government have
been channeled mainly to beef, no significant expansion is expected in the
wool industry, particularly since prices of wool went down about 5% to 10%
in 1974. Some wool production is also carried out in Parana, Santa Catarina
and southern IMinas Gerais, but, together, they accounted for only about 2%
of total production in 1974.
6.        By 1973, the Departamento Nacional de Inspecao de Produtos de
Origem Animal (DIPAO) inspected 123,650 tons of hides (Table 2) while an
equal number probably went uninspected, bringing up total production to
234,903 tons (Table 3). Other hides which are processed in Brazil include
sheep, goat, nonato (unborn cow), and rabbit but these are produced in con-
siderably lesser amounts than ox-hides. Total sheep skins processed in 1970
were 3,306 tons, but, in 1973, inspected production reached only 689 tons.
In 1970, total goat skins were 1,643 tons, while nonato production was 20
tons and rabbit was 4 tons. In 1973 inspected production of the same skins
was 14.8 tons for goat skins; 114.3 for nonato, and there is no record for
rabbit skins (Table 4).
B. The Industry
Structure
7.        There are approximately 545 tanneries in Brazil, concentrated in
the southeastern and south regions, which produce more than 80% of the total
tanned hides in the country. Quality of production varies considerably,
from sophisticated leather with aniline dyes to the more rustic leathers, or
to chamois-colored hides with or without varnish and shoe leather of the
finest quality.
8.        The processing capacity of the national industry is about 10 million
hides per year, and production of raw material to supply the industry seems
assured by the expansion of the beef processing industry and the resolution
of the National Foreign Trade Council (CONCEX), which prohibits the export of
raw, wet or chromium-tanned hides.
9.        The shoe industry is perhaps the dominating factor in the leather
market since it absorbs 90% of the total production. In 1974 the demand of
the shoe industry amounted to 10,450,000 hides, with a deficit of 450,000
units which were beyond the capacity of the industry.
10.       Recent trends in the tanning industry show a reduction in the number
of tanneries, with an increase in the amount of tanned hides produced; the
grouping of small tanneries to form larger more efficient units; expansion
of existing plants and improvement and modernization of their lay-out and
equipment; adoption of the more advanced processes used in the international



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
Page 3
industry; modernization of the administrative aspects in industries which
were traditionally family style; and aggressive promotion in the domestic
and export markets with the introduction of new, higher-quality products.
Plant Operations
11.       Operations of a tannery can be summarized in a series of steps in-
cluding the reception of raw hides, cutting out the unusable portions, skin-
ning and scalping, tanning by vegetable or chemical products, drying, cutting
the leather into pieces, controlling thickness, second tanning, dyeing, dry-
ing and re-humidifying, stretching out of pieces, treating with special resins,
drying, removing upper layer, manual sorting of leathers, treating with resins
and pigments, applying the nitrocellulose emulsion treatment, printing and
final sealing. Leather pieces are subsequently packed and shipped to clients.
The more modern tanneries use the chrome tanning process which is faster than
the process using vegetable products and is apparently more versatile and
economical.
12.       Secondary materials utilized in the processing of raw hides are
salt, lime and various chemicals, including sulphuric acid, formic acid, cal-
cium formiate, ammonium sulphate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium sulphite, sodium
sulphate and chrome oxide.  Sub-products of-the tanning process are the
scalping residues and tallow, sold in the domestic market for various indus-
trial purposes.
Equipment
13.       Equipment used in the tanning industry include boilers, compressors,
wood pallets and trestles, weighing scales, lathes, machines for hide tanning
and for hide re-tanning, pressure cut-down stations with unit separator sets,
meat-removing machines, hydraulic dryers, hydraulic drying/dripping machines,
hide-splitting machines, hide-thinning machines, porcelain dryers, continuous
flow production lines for the removal of hides' surface layer and dust, hide
washing and humidity content control machines, hide edge drying machines,
coating machines, special tannery laboratory equipment, hide measuring elec-
tronic machines, hide-surface homogenizing machines and dust-removing systems,
hydraulic stamping presses, smoothening presses, hide-stretching vibratory
machines and a variety of workshop and standard industrial equipment.
14.       Some of the above equipment is manufactured in Brazil with satis-
factory quality, but the more sophisticated equipment will, in most cases,
require imports from the United States or European manufacturers. Produc-
tion of the higher quality leathers, in particular, will require modern
machinery which is not yet manufactured in the country.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
Page 4
C.  Marketin
Domestic Market
15.       Two major concentrations of the tanning industry have developed
close to their main markets: one is in the area around the city of Franca,
in the State of Sao Paulo where the men's shoe industry predominates, and
the other is in the Vale dos Sirios, in Rio Grande do Sul, where the women's
shoe industry is centered in the city of Nova Hamburgo. Historically, the
shoe industry has absorbed the bulk of the output of the tanneries. In the
1970/72 period, it took two-thirds of the hides processed (Table 5), other
leather industries took 17%, and the remainder was shipped abroad. The
domestic market, of course, includes in its clientele export-oriented enter-
prises producing various leather items.
16.       Aggregate domestic demand rose from 4.8 million hides in 1966 to 7.8
million hides in 1972, a gain of 62%. The growth rate of the herd for that
period was 8.4%. Tanning activities here apparently expanded recently at an
accelerated pace, judging by demand estimates for 1975 which range up to 11.8
million hides. Exports of semi-finished hides that year are likely to approxi-
mate 200,000. Due to world market conditions 1/, such an off-take will leave
a considerable surplus of hides in beef processing or tanning industries'
inventories, because an output of 2.3 million tons of beef will require the
slaughter of approximately 14 million head of cattle.
Export Market
17.       Exports of hides expanded four and a half times in the 1966/72 period,
from 0.5 million to 2.2 million pieces. In 1973, in conjunction with policy to
encourage leather industries and to assure the shoe industry adequate supplies
of raw material, the Government prohibited export of raw and semi-finished hides
(by resolution of the National Foreign Trade Council, (CONCEX). The intent was
two-fold: (a) to implement the aforementioned policies, and (b) to export
finished hides with greater value added content. As a result of that decree,
and also because of world market conditions, hide exports have dropped below
levels of a decade earlier. Prior to Government action, the trend to export
tanned hides and leather manufactures was already clearly in evidence, as
shown below:
1/   Described in Annex 2, Beef Processing.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
Page 5
(US$'000)                 (Percent)
1970   1971   1972        1970   1971   1972
Hides                     25.5   20.0   24.1         50.9   30.2   18.9
Tanned hides              15.5   14.4   40.9         31.0   21.6   31.6
Leather manufactures       0.8    2.7    0.7          1.6    4.0    7.5
Shoes                      8.3   29.3   54.6         16.5   44.2   42.2
Total                     50.1   66.4  129.3        100.0  100.0  100.0
Source: CACEX.
18.       Under the changed export conditions, the better-equipped, modern
tanneries have been rapidly expanding export trade in finished leathers to
Europe on a custom order basis, thus competing directly with established
European tanneries. Subsidiaries of the major European chemical companies
are producing locally tanning, coloring and finishing materials equal to
their latest production in Europe. Thus, BraWilian enterprises that have
the necessary capacity can obtain the n&terials with which to produce
high-grade finished leathers, permitting them to compete in the European
market. The larger tanneries have also imported the latest leather-working
machinery. The major shortcoming in the industry is the quality of the
hides, which is not up to the standard of Argentine or U.S. material. However,
steady improvement is being made with the introduction of modern techniques
in cattle husbandry. A small leather import trade still persists, amounting
to about US$1 million per year, mainly from Argentina. This trade consists
of specialty leathers which long-established tanneries in that country have
traditionally produced.
19.       Because of the dominant role of the shoe industry in the leather
market in Brazil, conditions, particularly affecting the export-oriented
sector, have an important bearing on the tannery industry. Exports of shoes
to the U.S. have spiralled upward at a phenomenal rate, and Brazil was able
to undersell traditional leather shoe industries in Italy and Spain. In 1973
Brazilian shoe exporters had preempted 13.5% of the US import market in terms
of volume and 11.1% in terms of value. Although at that point, the Brazilian
share of the one-billion pair per year US market was less than 2%, the domestic
shoe industry in the U.S. reacted with alarm to the sharply rising influx.
The U.S. Government therefore imposed compensatory tariffs on shoe imports
from Brazil in 1974 to partially offset the tax and export incentives accorded
the manufacturers in Brazil, already amounting to as much as 30% of the "normal"
cost of production. Brazil, nevertheless, has been able to meet European
competition in the U.S. market because of the formidable increases in labor
costs on the Continent. The slower growth in demand for leather by the shoe
industry now reflects a smaller market due to the econoric sloudoum in the
U.S. and in Europe.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
Page 6
20.       The experience with the U.S. tariff in 1974 has encouraged Brazilian
producers to lessen their dependence on the U.S. market by diversifying their
shipments to other markets. In 1972, exports of 13.6 million pairs, valued at
US$46.9 million, to the United States, constituted 87% of volume and 86% of
value of the total exports of the industry.
21.       Sales of hides and leather, particularly to European countries, are
usually made through brokers and agents in the importing countries, although
major tanneries that are competitive with the better grade European products
have direct representation in principal markets. Executives of such enterprises
visit the main markets in order to stay up to date on the latest developments in
production and on trends in customer requirements. The semi-annual Foire Inter-
national du Cuir, held in Paris and attended by some Brazilian producers, is in
fact "de rigueur" for tanneries that are competing in international trade of
finished leathers. Tanneries which cannot as yet compete in finished leathers,
particularly the smaller tanneries, usually conduct their trade through export
brokers and agents in the large centers such as Porto Alegre and Sao Paulo.
22.       In recent years, government policy has encouraged development of
leather consuming industries, mainly directed toward external markets. Leather
furniture, women's handbags and leather clothing manufacturers have proliferated
in collaboration with foreign financial participation or assistance and styling
know-how. As a result, the local market for higher grade leather has expanded
considerably. These industries should grow at a faster pace in the future as
Brazilian products gain acceptance in foreign markets. The rate of growth of
the shoe industry is problematic as Brazilian exporters seek to penetrate new
markets with perhaps different styling requirements. Domestic demand can be
expected to rise more rapidly in the coming years as rising income levels pro-
vide a greater degree of discretionary purchasing power for a larger proportion
of the population. Postulating that the indicated longer term growth of 9.3%
per annum mainfested over the 1966/75 period would persist through the present
decade, aggregate demand for hides would approximate 18.4 million tons by
1980, a total that is somewhat greater than estimated availabilities of 17.3
million hides based on the projected production of 2,862 tons of beef in the
same year (Annex 4, Appendix 4-1). A rather substantial deficit of 1.1 million
hides would therefore occur based on the foregoing assumptions.
23.       The production of wool is a minor activity in the agricultural sector
of Brazil. In 1973, output amounted to 34,234 tons (Table 5), which would indi-
cate availabilities of 0.34 kg per capita.
24.       Imports of wool and related fibers totaled 1,025 tons in 1971 and
1,557 tons in 1972. Assuming that the latter level prevailed in 1973, per
capita availabilities of wool would reach only 0.35 kg.
25.       Various other synthetic and natural fibers and textiles are imported
to supplement the requirements for apparel, household and other uses. Such
imports totaled about US$74 million in 1972, including USS3 million value of
wool imports.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7-3
Page 7
26.       There is, undoubtedly, scope for marketing woolen textiles in the
southern regions of Brazil. The principal constraint would seem to be the
development of high quality medium weight textiles of synthetic fibers, or of
very low wool content that would lessen the need for woolen clothing during
the cold season.
27.       As personal incomes rise in Brazil, the demand for imported textiles
and ready-made clothing from traditional fashion centers in Europe will un-
doubtedly rise, fulfilling a considerable portion of the demand for clothing
of woolen content. This is a worldwide consumption pattern that will persist
despite high tariff on non-essential goods. Brazil should be no exception to
that trend in styles and tastes.
D.  Model
28.       Table 6 gives a financial model for a tannery producing for export
and domestic markets.



BRAZTh
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Inspected Cowhide and Pigskin Production in the Project Area (1973)
(Tons)
C O W   I-I I D E S                           P I G  S K I N S
Total    %   Fresh   %   Salted            % D        Total       rFlee    Chilled  %
BRAZIL             123,649.9 loo 52 664.5 100  70,067.9 100   247.3 loo  6 818.1 100 908.7 100       .6 loo 5 908.8 loo
1ERE  AREA          121.291.2    5F         9   70 067.9 = 173 1007 f- t1f.1            7b 77 Ib   __ i__           100
SOUTH               356488.6_29   9 304.6  18  25,936.7  37   247.3 loo 6 678.5  98 815.4  90        -      5.863e1  99
Parana            T0,729.6   9  1,631.7   3   9,097.9  T3        -  -         -    - -u ".         -    -  956.1 17
Santa Catarina       72O.5   1       57.6         662.9   1      -  -         -   - 270.7  30      -        515.4   9
Rio Grande do Sul  24,038.5  19   7,615.3  15 16,175.9  23   247.3 100        -   - 46Qo.  51      -      4,391.6  74
SOUTHEAST            78567.6  63 41.658e7 79  36 908,9  53         -  -    137.2   2  93.3  10       -         43.9   1
Minas Gera.i.s     17,620.6 I    5;861.9     11 ,758.7 T7        -  -                 1      1     -         37.9   1
Espirito Santo      5,oo6.5   4        -   -  5,oo6.5   7        -  -                                          -    -
Rio de Janeiro Ll  2,735.2   2   1,810.1   3      925.1   1      -  -                        -    -    -       -    -
Sao Paulo         53,205.3  43  33,986.7  65 19,218.6  27        -  -         -    - 81.7   9                 6.o   -
CENTER WEST           7.235,0   6     12.7   -   7 222.3  10       -  -         7.8  -   -    -      .6         1.8   -
%ato Grosso           912.9   1      12.7   -    900.2  T1       -  -          -                   :-   -           -
Goias               6,322.1   5        -   -  6,322.1   9        -   -        7.8                  .6   -    1.8   -
Federal District         -   -         -   -         -    _      _  _          _  _    _   _       _   _       _   _
a   Includes the old states of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture - DIPOA
July 1975
1-3 X
(D|



ANNEYX 7
APPENDIX 7- 3
TaEble 2
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSlRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Cowhide Production in the Project Area
(1973)
Total    %      Raw      %       Dry     %    Salted    %
BiAZIL                234.903  100   113,73  ')0   7' 320   100  2?9 91t   1 00
PT35JP,T AREA        TF-9,24td  -      79.04h    70       8           95'La3 TP
-~~~~~~~ =    ~  _  . . 
SDUTE H1,463   22    11 .94                      11    7,,)0    36   3192c    32
Parana                        7                        73      3    7 c 4 
.o.nta Jatarina      i,472    2      1,?1u 1.9 4it      2e     2    3,573      4
PRio Grande do Su    31,2995   14    5$         5 c   ,t6456    31   20 390    20
SOtYIEEAST           ILJ7 420   50    6! rc,8    56    3.43     15   59969    $0
i:onas -erais        27 750   TP 1  859         l      23     11   12 59      13
Es,rito 8.tc           195    2      1,028      1      l'r     _    3017       3
Rlio de Janeiro       4 12082    5   7,012      6      183     -    i4887      5
,Saa Pau' n          73s393   31    43,109    38       91 7    4   2r,1467    29
CE1TEd VklF3T          20,362    9     3 093      3    3^715o    18   13 519    14
-.r, 'rosso           ,476    5        33      .7    1,907     9    6'234    7
1snas   l:l,043    ,  2 388  2    1,842    9    62813     7
Tederaa T)nurict        33    -        370    .5         1             4 '72   1
h include. the old stat.es of Rio de UJaneiro and Guanabra.
Source: Vlnisterir da Agr fultura - S-UPLAN.
July l975



ERAZIL
SECGTD AGRO-INDUStIES  UCDIT PROJECT
Inspected Nonatoa   Sheep and Goat Skins Production
In the Project Area (19?3)
(Tons)
'T O N A T 0                                   SHEEP                            G O A T
Total   %   F resh  ,   Chilled%   _ailt        Total  %  -Fredh  d  Salted  %    Dry  % Sate
BRAZIL                 114.3  100  90.5  100  1.1  100  22.6  100  389.1  100  59.3  100  324.9  100  4.8  100  14.8  100
PROJECT AREA           114.3 iT-  9.5        10 le.1   10;7 i22    T.67  -                   I=  -: 1200  T.7           2    1
SOUTH                   17.3   15           -  1.1  100  16.2   72  373.2   96  43.5   73  324.9  100   -   100          2,   1
TaFana                  -      -    -     -   -      - -          -10.3    -       =    -      10.3    _       _ -2    1
Santa Catarina          -      -    -        -    -     -    -         -      -    -      -     -      -   -     -    -      -
Rio Grande do Sul    17.3           -    - a 1.1  100  16.2   72  362.9   93  43.5   73  314.6   97  4.8  100
SOUTHEAST               96.8      9go,4 1oo   -        -   6.4   28       .2    -    .2    1      -      -   -      -    _     _
MIinas Gerais         93788.                   -     - 7                -    -     -
Espirito Santo          .2          .1       -    -        .1    -      -    -    -       -     -      -   -     -    -      -
Rio de Janeiro 2        -      -    -     -   -      -    -      -       -    _    -      -     -      -   -     _    -      _
Sao Paulo              1.9    2   1.9    2-         --    -      -      2    -    2    I        -      -   -     -    -      -
CENTER WEST               .1    -    .1    -                             -           -      -     -      -   -     -    -
Mato Grosso             -      -    -     -          -    _      _     _      _    _      _     _      _   _     _    _      -
Goias                   .1    -    .1    -   -       -    -      -     -      -    -      -     -      -   -           -     -
Federal District        -      -    -     -          -    -  -      -      -    -    -       -     -    -    -    -       -
/ Unborn cow.
2  Includes the old States of Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
Source:, yinistry of Agriculture - DIPOA.
July 1975
g 4



A;W~XnY 7
APPENDIX 7-3
Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT FROJECT
Consumption of Hides (1966-1972)
('000 pieces)
Shoe      Other  A    Tatal
Industry   Industrxes  Domestic  Exports    TOTAL
1966                    3,829         958       4,787         505    5,292
1967                   h4014        1i,o04      5,018       1,027    6o045
1968                    4s596       1,140       5,646          770    62316
1969                    5,882       1,471        7,353      1l416    8,769
1970                     6,210      1,550        7,760      1,100    8,870
1971                    6,7L2        1,686       8,h28         972    9s400
1972                     6,200       1,550       7,750       2,248    9,998
Increase 1966/72
Increase in '000 pieces  2,371        592        2,963      1,,743   4s706
Increase in Percent      62          62           62          345      88
Growth Rate (5)           8.4          8.4         8.4        28.0      11.1
/1  Includes handiorafts, clothing, furniture, handbags, luggage, and such.
Source : INDI, CACEX.
August 1975



ANNEX 7
A"EIR)  7-3
Table 5
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUS1RIES CREDIT PROJECT
Wool Production in the Project Area
(1973)
Lamb             Sheared          Wool        Value of
HIerd      L_ Lamb           %    (tons) %   Wool 2.r$  %
BRAZIL                 17,949.362  100  12 018 342  100  34 234  100  4o9g 415 100
P0;T AHE4             13.75,746   7  12,01O,34         34,234 7      409,417   S
OIMITH                13 .J141.197  74  1,1j958,963   99  34,196  100 40 ,075  lOG
Parana                 282,560   -       46,473    -    -361    1    3,0      1
.arrt.a Catarina       306,460    2      45,662    -    133    -   1,596    -
ii') _..rande do Sul  12,552,177   70  11,866,823   99  33,702   99 40h,421   99
Z2i'W1IiEA;2T             1 32,399    2     8,638    1       25    -      223    -
- .inas &erais         262,524    1      36,902    1U
EspixSto Santo          12 ,059    -       -
Rio de 'aneirs /1       14,769    -        -       _     _      _     _       _
3ao Paulo              14J3,047    1     U ,736    -       4    -       34 
________ r#2i6,1eo                          10,7h2.    -     1            117
lato Grosso            161 ,23    '
2oias                  5,72g    -       10,741    -       13    -      117
Fec_er al District         184    -       -              -
_  ITcludes the old states of Rio de janeiro and Guanabara.
Soure: IBGE.
July 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL: Tannery
Capacity, 1,000 hides/day
Production for Export and
Domestic Markets
Capacity and Utilization                                                                       Investment Costs
(Cr$ '000)
Amount of hides per day                                       1,000                                               Land                                                 541
Amount of working days per year                                 240                                               Civil Works                                      16,263
Amount of hides processed per year                         250,000                                                Equipment
Domestic                                      3,269
Imported                                     23,501
Export of about 60% of total production:                   1st year         2nd year       3rd year                   Vehicles                                      1.140
Tanned leather                                           80,400 m2          -              _                        Sub-total Equipment                          27,910
Smooth leather                                          915,000 a2         4,400 m2        -                    Installation                                      3,114
Finished leather                                         39,600 m2       469,800 m2    507,600 m                Feasiblity study and engiPeering                     848
Chamois (suede)                                          88,200 m2       228,600 m2    250,800 m                Training                                             600
Start-up costs                                    1,014
Domestic market about 407 of total production:
2                                             Contingencies                                     2.331
Tanned leather                                           53,600 m           -              -
Total                       52,621
Smooth leather                                          610,000 m2        29,600 m         -
2                                                                  Operating Costs
Chamois (suede)                                           26,400 m       313,200 m      338,400 m                                       (Cr$ '000)
By-products A1                                          611,000 kg    1,039,000 kg  1,039,000 kg                Direct Costs
Labor (production)                            1,008
Hides                                        27,446
Packing and processing materials             10,028
Transport                                       236
Utilities                                     1,046
Taxes                                        .1,625
General expenses                              3,250
Contingencies 5%                              2,232
Total                       46,871
Indirect Costs
Administration salaries                       3,346
Insurance                                       397   J I I
/1  Scalping residues and tallow, 1007% domestic market.                                                              Administration costs                             265    t o 
Maintenance                                     612   J~
Auditing                                          80
Contingencies 5%                                432       _
Total                        5,132
December 1975



BRAZIL
SECOND ACRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
MODEL: Tannery
Capacity - 1,000 hides/daY
Production for Domestic and Export Markets
(Cr$ '000)
Year .....    1         2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9         10        11         12         13        14         15
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
Fixed investment                          52,621      -          -         -          -         -          -        1,140---                    -                         -          -         -
Working capital                             -        6,200       -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -
Operating income                            -       22,610    64,346    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    64,996    79,869-
Variable costs                              -       16,305    46,402    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871    46,871
Fixed costs                                 -        5,132      5,132     5,132      5,132     5,132      5,132     5,132      5,132      5,132     5,132      5,132     5,132      5,132      5,132
Operating prof-t                            -        1,173    12,812    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993    12,993
Depreciation -                              -        2,490      2,490     2,490      2,490     2,490      2,490     2,490      2,490      2,490     2,490      2,490     2,490      2,490     2,490
Interest - Long term                        -         -         2,315     2,026      1,737     1,447      1,158       868        579        290      -          -         -          -         -
Short term n                                310       310        310       310        310       310        310       310        310        310       310        310       310        310
Profit before taxes                         -       (1,677)    7,697      8,167      8,456      8,746     9,035     9,325      9,614      9,903    10,193    10,193    10,193    10,193    10,193
Taxes (30%)                                 -         _         1,821     2,450      2,537      2,624     2,711     2,798      2,884      2,971     3,058      3,058     3,058      3,058      3,058
Profit after taxes                          -        (1,627)   10,991    10,543    10,456    10,369    10,282    10,195    10,109    10,022         9,935      9,935     9,935      9,935      9,935
Net cash flow                            (52,621)   (5,027)   10,991    10,543    10,456    10,369    10,282        9,055    10,109    10,022       9,935      9,935     9,935      9,935    24,808
Sources and Uses of Funds
Sources                                   42,097     2,105-   2,105_-
Profit after tax                       -       (1,627)   10,991    10,543    10,456    10,369    10,282    10,195    10,109    10,022          9,935      9,935     9,935      9,935     9,935
Total                               42,097        478    13,096    10,543    10,456    10,369    10,282    10,195    10,109    10,022          9,935     9,935      9,935      9,935     9,935
Usea:
Investment                          52,621       -          -         -          -         -          -        1,140       -         -          -          -         -          -         -
Working capital                        -        6,200            -          -         -               -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Interest - Long term                  -          -        2,315      2,026      1,737     1,447      1,158       868        579       290       -          -         -          -         -
Short term                 -          310        310        310       310        310       310        310       310        310       310        310        310       310        310
Amortization                           -         -         5,788     5,788      5,788     5,788      5,788     5,788      5,788     5,791       -          -         -          -          -
Total                               52,621      6,510     8,413      8,124      7,835     7,545      7,256     8,106      6,677     6,391        310        310       310        310       310
Cash Position - Annual                   (10,524)   (6,032)    4,683       2,419     2,621      2,824     3,026      2,089     3,432      3,631     9,625      9,625      9,625     9,625      9,625
- Cumulative              (10,524)   (6,556)  (11,873)   (9,454)   (6,833)   (4,009)    (983)         1,106     3,538      7,169    16,794    26,419    36,044    45,669    55,294
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  13.35%
/1  teinvestment in vehicles.                                                                                                                                                                e r X 
/2  Includes residual value of buildings, Cr$ 8,132; working capital, Cr$ 6,200; and land, Cr$ 541.                                                                                         Q
/3  Depreciation for buildings, 30 years; for equipment, 15 years; and for vehicles, 7 years.                                                                                               t0
/4  Interest on fixed investment during grace period added to investment.
December 1975



ANNEX 8
BRMZIL
SECOND AGRO-InDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cost Phasing
(minlion Us$ equivalent)
Year                 1         2         3         4       5         6       Total
Meat                17.6    23.1       25.8     24.6    16.1       12.8       120
Grain                7.3     9.6       10.8    1i.M        6.7      5.4        50
Milk                 3.7     4.8        5.4      5.0      3.4       2.7        25
Miscellaneou         9.4    12.5       14.0     13.2      8.8       7.1        65
Total            38.0    50.0       56.0     53.0     35.0     28.0        260
May 1976



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow at Central Bank
(US$ '000 equivalent)
Year         1        2        3         4        5        6        7         8        9       10       11        12       13        14      15
Cash Inflow
Ban]k Loan                       12,000   i6,000   i8,000   i/,00O   tl,Oo   .9, 000
Government Contribution          15,324   20,432   22,986   21,703   14,047   11,502
Collections tram Participating
Banks  1/                    589    2,176    4,463    7,267   26,187   31,396   36,724   41,816   47,886   54,989   62,847   71,344   75,188   86,884   100,323
Total                            27,913   38,608   45,449   45,976   51,234   51,898   36,724   41,816   47,886   54,989   62,847   71,344   75,188   86,884   100,323
Cash Outflow
Refinancing of Participating    27,324   36,432   40,986   38,709   25,047   20,502
Bank' Subloans
Bank Loan Coammitment Fee  2/       578      473      345      241       109       34
Debt Service  3/                    531    1,770    3,270    4.823   10,525   11,393   11,763   11,742   11,717   11,686   11,654   11,622   11,583   11,547    11,505
Total                            28,433   38,675   44,601   43,773   35,681   31,929   11,763   11,742   11,717   11,686   11,654   11,622   11,583   11,547    11,505
Net Cash Flow
Annual                             (520)     (67)     848    2,203   15,553   19,969   24,961   30,074   36,169   43,303   51,193   59,722   63,60i  75,337    88,818
Cumulative                         (520)    (587)     261    2,464   18,017   37,986   62,947   93,021  129,190  172,493  223,686  283,408  347,013  422,350   511,168
1/ Adjusted for the difference between Brazilian inflation and the US$/Cruzeiro exchange rate estimated at 11% per year according to the projected world inflation.
2/  C.n,mitment fee of 3/4%.
3/  Bank loan for 15 years including 4 years grace at 8.85% interest.
May 1976



ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
SECOND AGR0-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Etimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
Fiscal Year         Quarter Ending           Quarterly           Cumulative
1977                March 31, 1977           8,000               8,ooo
June 30, 1977            4,000              12,000
1978                Sept. 30, 1977           4,000              16,000
Dee. 31, 1977            4,000              20,000
March 31, 1978           4,000              24,000
June 30, 1978            4,000              28,000
1979                Sept. 30, 1978           5,000              33,000
Dec. 31, 1978            5,000              38,ooo
March 31, 1979           4,000              42,000
June 30, 1979            4,000              46,ooo
1980                Sept. 30, 1979           5,000              51,000
Dec. 31, 1979            4,000              55,000
March 31, 1980           4,000              59,000
June 30, 1980            4,000              63,ooo
1981                Sept. 30, 1980           3,000              66,ooo
Dec. 31, 1980            3,000              69,ooo
March 31, 1981           3,000              72,000
June 30, 1981            2,000              74,000
1982                Sept. 30, 1981           3,000              77,000
Dec. 31, 1981            2,000              79,000
Msrch 31, 1982           2,000              81,000
June 30, 1982            2,000              83,ooo
May 1976



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUTSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Justification
1.        To evaluate the economic feasibility of the project, economic rates
of return have been calculated for model plants of the major components. The
best estimate economic rates of return (ERR) are presented below:
(a)  beef processing (600 head/day);                           55.35
(b)  beef processing (300 head/day);                          37.55
(c)  soybean processing (600 tons/day);                       44.85
(d)  powdered milk and butter plant (150,000 liters/day);   53.85
(e)  cheese and butter plant (50,000 liters/day);             46.65
(f)  tannery (1,000 hides/day).                                24.35
Sensitivity tests of these rates, in relation to certain variations in cost
and benefit elements are presented in Appendix 11-1 for financial rates of
return and in Appendix 11-2 for economic rates of return. Appendix 11-3
presents specific assumptions underlying the derivation of the above rates.
2.        In the evaluation of the contribution of the project to the Brazilian
balance of payments, the export and import substitute component of the major
types of plant was estimated, as well as the cost of the foreign currency
investment. International market prices as of 1974 (unless otherwise stated)
and an exchange rate of Cr$ 7.92/US were used for the evaluation. The contri-
bution is presented in the following table:
Net Positive Dollar Inflow
4gro-industrial Category                  Over the Project Life-span
Beef processing                           40,000,000
Soybean processing                        67,000,000
Milk processing                           55,000,000
Miscellaneous processing                  54,000.000
Total                         216,000,000



ANNEX 11
Page 2
The specific investments in the miscellaneous category are unknown and there-
fore the contribution to the balance of payments for this group cannot be
calculated; however, the figure vwas estimated proportionally to the allocated
investment in the entire category (25%). The net dollar inflow over the
project's span of US$216 million compares to a foreign currency investment
estimate of US$86 million.
3.        In the evaluation of the contribution af- the project to the employ-
ment in Brazil, cost estimates were used assuming that an above normal unemploy-
ment rate exists in Brazil throughout the life-span of the project. Only the
jobs directly created in the plants under consideration were included. The
table below presents the contribution of the major components to employment:
Annual Average Man/Years
Agro-industrial catagory                  for the Project Life-span
Beef processing                           4,660
Soybean processing                         260
Milk processing                             600
Miscellaneous processing                  1,840
Total                     7,360
The specific investments in the miscellaneous category are unknown and there-
fore the contribution to the creation of new jobs cannot be calculated; how-
ever, the figure was estimated proportionally to the allocated investment in
the entire category (25%).



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Financial ates of Return
Fixed and
Capital Investment      Variable
Best        Operating Income + Tax Savings                  + Working Capital          Operating Costs       Worst
Estimate   +5Z    +107      +15Z   -5Z    -10%    -15%       +5%    +10%   +15%       +10%   +20%    +30%   Situation
1.  Beef processing plant            20.75   31.15   41.05   50.75   9.65   -3.25  -20.00   10.95  -0.25  -14.05    18.65  16.85   15.35  -20.00
300 head/day
2. Beef processing plant
600 head/day                    34.95   46.35   58.25   70.50  22.45    9.75   -3.00   24.85  14.05    3.20    31.25  29.05   26.65  -20.00
3. Soybean proceasing plant
600 tons/day                    33.05   41.75   50.25   58.65  23.95   14.35    3.45   25.75  18.15    9.85    29.95  27.25   25.05   -4.85
4.  Powdered milk and butter
processing plant
150,000 liters/day              33.05   43.65   53.85   63.75  21.65    8.95   -7.25   23.35  12.85    0.55    30.15  27.65   25.55  -19.85
5.  Cheese and butter plant                                                                                                                              2
50,000 liters/day                31.35   40.25   49.15   57.95  22.05   11.75   -4.85   23.55  15.35    5.75    28.95  26.85   24.95   -9.00
6.  Tannery                          13.35   18.45   23.25   27.75   7.65    1.05   -7.35    8.65   3.25    3.05    11.70  10.35    9.15  -13.95
/1   Operating income + tax savings, -107; fixed and variable costs, + 10%; investwnt + vorking capital, +20%.
/2   Re-run estimates.
December 1975.
FE



BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rates of Return
Fixed and
Capital Investment       Variable
Best               Operating Income + Tax Savings                + Working Capital           Operating Costs         Worst
Estimate    +4%      +10%    +15%   -5%        -10%    -157      +5%    +10%    +15%       +10%      +20%   +30%    Situation L
1.  Beef processing plant
300 head/day                  37.55   47.45   57.35   67.15   27.45   16.85    5.35    29.25   20.75   11.85    34.45   31.75   29.45   -3.25
2.  Beef processing plant
600 head/day                  55.35   66.85   78.25   90.00   43.00   31.00   18.00    46.35   37.15   27.95    50.85   47.05   43.75    6.00 /2
3. Soybean processing plant
600 tons/day                  44.85   54.05   63.15   72.15   35.45   25.85   15.55    37.75   30.45   22.95    40.85   37.55   34.65   -3.25
4.  Powdered milk and butter                                                                                                                               /2
plant - 150,000 liters/day  53.85   64.95   75.65   86.35   42.55   30.65   17.85    45.05   35.95   26.45    49.45   45.75   42.55    3.85 -
5. Cheese and butter plant
50,000 liters/day             46.65   57.65   68.45   79.15   35.25   23.15   9.55         35.55   28.05   17.85    42.65   39.35   36.45   -1.75
6.  Tannery                       24.35   29.35   34.05   38.65   19.05   13.25   6.85         20.35   16.05   11.55    22.15   20.25   18.55    1.35
/1   Operating income + tax savings, -107.; fixed and variable costs, + 107.; + working capital, + 207.
/2   Re-run estimates.
December 1975



ANNEX 11
APPENDIX 11-1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Specific Assptions
for Economic Rates of Return Calculation
Beef Processins
(a) All product prices, except by-products, are world price forecasts
for Brazilian beef, which show a 2.7% annual increase over first
quarter 1975 prices through 1980 and no increase thereafter.
Actual prices are lower than Bank forecasts due to lower quality
of beef; the trend, however, is similar in both;
(b) Fixed investment includes 33% foreign currency, on which 15% duties
are collected;
(c)  57 tax is collected on added value of domestic sales:
(d) Cr$ 200/ton export taxes are collected on exported products:
(e)  New plants would save 25% of transportation costs: and
(f)  Production in first year of operation is 50% of full capacity and
75% in the following years.
Soybean Processing
(a) Product prices (oil and meal) are international prices as of 1974,
assumed to remain constant in real terms;
(b) All the production is export-oriented;
(c) Investment includes 29% foreign currency on which 15% duties are
collected; and
(d) Production in first year of operation is 50% of full capacity and
75% in the following years.
Milk Processine
(a) Product prices are 1974 domestic prices, assumed to remain
constant in real terms;
(b) PIS tax (0.5%) is collected on sales 15% ICM tax is collected on
added value-



ANNEX 11
APPNDIX 11-1
Page 2
(c) Investment includes 30% foreign currency, on which 157 duties
are collected: and
(d) Production phases to full capacity in third year of operation:
(i)  Powdered milk and butter plant:
40%, 80% of full capacity in the first and second year of
operation, respectively, and 10n% in the third and following
years- and
(ii)  Cheese and butter plant:
60%, 80% of full capacity in first and second years of
operation, respectively, and 100% in the following years.
Miscellaneous Processing
(a)  Prices of products are international prices as of 1974 for
tannery products,
(b)  Investment includes 37V foreign currency on which 15% duties are
collected; and
(c)  Production phases to full capacity of the tannery is 35% of
full capacity in first year of operation and about 100% in
the following years.



CCr * 1,000)
Yoste                         .          2          T  .        .                   6          7          8          9         10         it         12         13        i6 s5
M0odel: Beef 600 H6*".1tDa    .
Tone*0tmt Costs11             58.232                       .                                                3,676
Oper..tto cSosts-                        116,542    152,723    152,723    152,723    152.723    152,723    152,7Z3    152,723    152,723    152.723    152,723    152,723    152.723    152,723
Seol..                                   114,960   176,343    180,403   184,748    184,748   l84,748    184,7*8    164,48    184,748    284,748    184,748    184.748   14.748   21, 150 V
xternal 8en flte -       .                11,303     16.953     16,953     16,953     16.953    16,953 - 16,953       16.953     16,953     16.953    16,953      16,953     16,953     16,953
* Net Benefit.               (58,232)      9,721     40.573     44,633    48,978     48,978     48,978     48,978    48,978      48,978     48,978     48,978     48,979    48,978      77,380
EZon-1c Rate of Rt.r-  545.357.     -
Model: Beef Pro-Dina 300 fl.a/D.y
lOyeetontB Coat.              33,860                                                                        1,411
OIarating Costs               38          65,302     82,255    82,255      82,255 -  82,255    82,255      824255    82,255    82,255       82,253     82,255     82,255     82.255    82,255
Adj..ted Sale.                            63837      97.869    100,063    102,420    102,420    102,420    102,420    102,420    102,420    102,420    102,420    102,420    102,420    122,394
Set 8enefLta                 (33,660)     (l.665)    15,614     17,806     20,i65    20,145     20E,65     1,1.54     50.165    20.165   .20.165    20,165    20.165         20,165     40,139
SoCnoni. Wate of totomrg 37.552
Wel4,:  Soybean Prooanfoe
*   Invext nt Co t,           78,17238
Op.rati.g Cost.                          121.646    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361    149,361   149,361    149,361
ralon                                    130,85s   196,282    196,282    196,282    196,Z22    196,282    196.282    196.282    196,212    116,232    196,282   196,282    196,282    234,155 if
Net lonefioL                 (78,172)      9,209    46,921      46.921     46,921    44,921     46,921    46,92       44.021     46,921     46,921     46,921     4,921     46,921      84,794
ECo.ooeic 9ote of ftet,.y  44.857.
Mlodel: Poyde-d Milk 4 Btt- Pl..,t
Ioyoato,a,,t Costa    19.994                                                                           334
Ope t.Og Coot19                           43,478     59,437    73,667     73,667     73,667     73,667     73,667     73,667     73,667     73,661     73,66     73.667     73.667 73,667
Soleo                                     36,366    72,732      90,915     90,915     90,915    90,915     90,915    90,915      90,915     90,915     90,915     90,915     90,915    105.890 V
Etta..-1 Boofitn -/                        1.595      3,202      4,          006      4,006      4,006      4,006      4,006      4,506 4,006           4,006b 4,DM           4,006     4,006
Net Beoefits                 (19,994)     (5,517)   16,497      21,254     21,254     21,254    21,254     20,920     21,254     21,254     21,254     21,254     21,ZS4     21,254     36,229
Eooo,o,ic R.te of Retur.  53.85X
No,ol:  Choeso & 8utt-r rl.t
I. otmoot Coat.1,,04,7
Inveatnng C-st.l 81 ,S03                                                                                      472
Operottlg Costt -                         16,645     19,231    23,817     23,817     23,817     23,817     23,8t7    23.817      23,817     23,817     23,817     23.817     23,817     23,817
S.les                                     16,885     22,512     28,141    28,141     28,141     28,141     28,141     28,141     28,141     28,141     28,141     28,141     28,141     31,460
Eotool1 D -.1t10                             974      1,300      1,625      1,623      1,455      1,625     1,625      1,625      1,623      1.625      1,625      1,625      1,625      1,625
Net 8enefits                  18.S08)      1,214      4,581      5,949     5,943       3,949 5,949          5,949      5,949      5,949      5,949      1,949      1,9459     5,949      9.288
conodic Rote of Ret-rn  46.657.
Nodel: T-,oory
Investssot Costsa             49,727                                                                        1,077
operatiyg cost. -'                        27,637     51534    52,003     52,003    5,043      51,003     52,003     52,053    53,003      52,003     52,003     52,003     52,003     52.003
Sales                                     22,610    64,346    64,996      64,996    64,996      64,996     64,996     64,996     64,996     64,996     64,996     64,996     64,996     79,422
Elororol ... fit. 3,                       1,289      3,800      3,878     3,878      3,878      3,878      3,878      3,878      3,878      3,878      3,878      3,879      3,878      3,878
Net B.-fEit.                 (49,7Z7)     (3,735)    16,612    16,975      16,81     56,4.    lb871    14.435                    164,71     16,871     16,671     16,871     16,871     31,297
Lo.o..ic Rote of RPtor.  24.35%
A.,n-pto- ./   popr-tiog Coet. i-clude bo,l fioed and -artiblt coot,
3/  OSlo, to 15th year are odjoat.d for -010.g, v-lIe -.
3/  loolude- Export DutieD, Valo. Addyd T.., Troosportstioo  S4viogo
Msy 1976



IBRD 11764
N - -a6jOm                        52               ( L1 t'4                                             4      4       ' ! -61        C ' s tCT,06R 1970
K2 '2                                                                                                 Lo                               12-I        i_
I   BRAZIL
fPrto Artur                                         /XB AhIA                                                  lt      .  
plo A0j~~~~~~~~                                                  B  AH          A
SiLl ~            ~ 
2 / OJ I A jS % t 11< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ArTerica 
A  acil~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Afot 
L X 1 H R dj O H/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                           o     I   __ ___,___ 
I e'     G      R O                    SI'
! \                                A~~~~~~~  ~     ~ ~           ~       ~~~~~~~raquo ir a  ,, 2\fotsluo  
[ 0    10Cc,lImb4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                     1 
i    .!  x                      lk                               ,             Uberldnd;;;\  e                                  GOVu VALDARES       Manteoo  2
,    t   Aquiriquqnt~~~~~~~ * 3; ) UVUE   \  |   _            <     4         x                 t         ; X               <~~~~~~~~~  I  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rbn _,  I_>Xu]  ;~                                                                                 r  Sa  
Aqu?oiclado                                                                            IgCAcM    R   0I;m, 4
Poole           V~~~iTbRIA
Iour| .dos           CIO  reG.Prossqude     \   ,FtnrrtnrSitC o
u r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
I   t                         .    W       Cevelundic =.Ponta Rom             le Jos  Is
~> K AGRO-lNDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT II O
}o-zM Girua/ NNSLaJe(LOCATION OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED  S1
s R G E N r  N A ff   -    /           i          tUNDER AGRO-INDUSTRI ES CREDIT PROJECT Ii
Jf   f}/                a?  /2iunorgio                                 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BEEF PRIOCESSING
{          /      o      I o    \ G~~~~~~~~~ R AN  D      p     a                                                  OILSEE PffOCESSINGj
VMISCELLANEOJS FOOD AND FEED PROCESSING
i         /    ee9C>- 39~~A          an  Maria            ars  _|/                                                      anrtfed.rldhieOOetr II
4      MILK PROCESSINSINoG1N bpro,0j.fi.-ir3dOtof of darol
10                                                         \                                                     OSUL  W/ RAILDRSADS
i         ,  g          9                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
STATE BOUND A RIES
INTERN, rIONAL OUNDARIES
00/        200          200           0           500|
MILES
== 'edRaB  WaNa_              48                                  4                                  4



