FILE COPYDumentof
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-1889-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
AGRO-INDUS TRIES CREDIT PROJECT
June 29, 1976
This document bas a restrlited distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIvAlENTS
(As of June 8, 1976)
Currency Unit              Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                       Cr$10.65
Cr$1                       us$o.094
Cr$1,000                   US$94.00
Cr$1,000,000        =      US$94,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE    - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Economic Development Bank)
CEBRA,E  - Centro Brasileiro de Assiatencia Gerencial a Pequena e Media
(Center for Managerial Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises)
ORTN    - Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Readjusted National Treasury Bonds)



FOR OFFICIAL use ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$83 million to
help finance an agro-industries credit project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.85 percent per
annum. The proceeds of the loan would be made available by the Government
through the Central Bank to various participating banks, including regional
and state development banks, the Banco do Brasil and private investment banks.
The participating banks would onlend the proceeds to industries processing
agricultural products (an important portion of which would be for export), in
the Center, West and South of the country, and industries producing inputs into
agriculture. Subloans would be for 10 years, including up to three years of
grace, at interest rates varying by state, from 3% to 5% plus full monetary
correction.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1967-74 the combination of excellent domestic economic manage-
ment and buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high and sus-
tained income growth, strong balance of payments performance and gradually
decelerating inflation. Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10%
over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130% in-
crease in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the value of exports.
However, international economic events in 1974 and 1975 have forced at least a
temporary slowdown in the pace of economic growth. With the sharp deterioration
of the country's terms of trade and the disruption of the world capital market,
the balance of payments is proving to be a severe constraint on Brazil's growth.
As a result, the pace of growth has dropped sharply, into the 4-5% range during
1975-76.
4.        The fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw
materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external financial credits,
1/   This section is reprinted, with minor updating, from the President's
Report on the Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(No. P1815a-BR), dated June 24, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
made management of the external sector difficult in 1974-75. These factors
caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and growth of import
demand was very high, because after a prolonged period of rapid growth some key
industrial sectors were approaching capacity levels of output. The current
account deficit, which averaged just US$1 billion in 1969-73, or 2% of GDP,
widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the sizeable
differential between import growth (about 100%) and export growth (roughly
30%) and the increasing level of interest payments on debt. The bulk of the
deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of external financial
credits of considerably shorter maturity than was generally available during
1971-73.
5.        The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account defict in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the level in 1974 in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, conti-
nuing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and by introducing direct import
controls. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports
and was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export
growth of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in
southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some key
crops, including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export growth
as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Nevertheless,
because of import restraint the trade deficit declined from US$4.7 billion in
1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade account was
virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflecting the growth
of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.        The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation very
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures estab-
lished advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of merchadise
imports, further increased import duties, increase gasoline prices 25% and
continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition, as a longer term
measure, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies. It is
clear, however, that despite these measures 1976 will be another difficult year
for balance-of-payments management as prospects are for a relatively small
gain in exports and as a result economic growth can again be expected to be
in the 4% range. In addition, with the acceleration of the domestic infla-
tion to a current rate of 3-4% per month, the Government has recently adopted
a series of restrictive monetary measures. These include higher compulsory
reserve requirements, increased Central Bank re-discount rates and higher
short-term rates of interest.
7.        Adverse development during 1975-76 reflect the fact that in recent
years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into the world economy and its
growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable to changes in the world
economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of growth of the world economy
has, with some lag, had an adverse impact on prices of Brazil's primary ex-
ports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures, and, through



- 3 -
the balance of payments, on the overall growth of the economy. It now appears
that world economic conditions will not permit Brazil to grow during 1975-80
at the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. However, despite the re-
duced pace of growth in 1975-76 a growth path averaging 6% per annum is still
feasible for 1975-80 as a whole. It is estimated that to attain such a growth
path, the average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is,
capital other than indrect investments and financial credits) required for the
1975-80 period will be substantial, about US$1.8 billion, or three times the
average for the 1970-74 period.
8.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is estmated at 16.7%,
which is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of develop-
ment. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached about US$22
billion at the end of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or US$15 billion was
in the form of financial credits. The debt service ratio during 1975 on
this total external debt was about 38%, or about the same as the average for
1969-73. However, it should be noted that net foreign exchange reserves at
the end of 1975 were still large, about US$4.6 billion, equivalent to some
four months of the 1975 imports of goods and non-factor services. While total
debt service ratio can be expected to rise somewhat in 1976, if an export
growth rate of around 17% per year in dollar terms (compared to 30% in 1970-74)
can be maintained over the 1975-80 period and if average maturities of new
financial credits gradually improve from six to eight years, the debt service
ratio in 1980 can be expected to return to the level prevailing in the 1969-73
period. Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden, the large foreign exchange
reserves accumulated over the past several years ensure that the country will
have the liquidity to meet its debt service obligations in the short term,
while the country's record of high caliber financial management provides
grounds for confidence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer
run.
9.        Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsiblity for its alleviation.
While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of growth is
necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe that the
"trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and is shaping a new posi-
tive policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth". To
this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs initiated by its
predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures for improving in-
come distribution. These can be classified into three broad areas: (a)
regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage policy.
In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a favorable, although
marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and income of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of



- 4 -
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to
include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that
the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore,
uniform standardized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28
sub-regions covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE
funds would be used initially. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte
project is one of the first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends to
present additional similar projects for Bank consideration in the future.
Active consideration is being given to a major modification in the state value
added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer to the
poorer states, in order to give the latter the fiscal resources which they
badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly in education. In the
area of social services, the Government has created a new Ministry of Social
Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to extend
these programs to a larger share of the population. In 1973 it allowed, under
the Social Integration Program (PIS, a social security fund), the lowest paid
workers covered by PIS, with incomes previously between about US$60 and US$300
monthly, to withdraw up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from their
PIS accounts. The Government is also strengthening the nutrition program
which, under the previous Government, got off to a poor start. Greater
emphasis is being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-income
housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than in the
past. BNH is also developing a site and service program to reach parts of the
population even lower down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently
reorganized rural extention agency (EMBRATER) will expand and strengthen its
activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the newly
established federal agriculture research institution (EMBRAPA) is redefining
its program to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will
ensure that small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. Overall, the
Government's recently approved public investment program for 1975-77 gives
high priority to education, health, agriculture and regional development,
which account for about 30% of total public investment. Finally, the Govern-
ment intends to pursue a more liberal wages policy to maintain the real value
of the minimum wage and improve personal income distribution. It has revised
the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage scale and has granted
increases in the real minimum wage of 6.5% in 1975 and 6% so far in 1976.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
11.       By May 31, 1976 the Bank had approved 62 loans for Brazil, amounting
to US$2,705.0 million, of which 37 have not been fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to an
average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million in
FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$162.9 million in the first three quarters
of FY76. Disbursements should increase further during the next few years.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of May 31, 1976 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73,



- 5 -
six loans amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74 three loans totalling US$242
million, and in FY75, five loans totalling US$426.5 million. In FY76 ten
loans totalling US$498 million were approved: US$60 million for the COSIPA
Stage III steel expansion program; US$75 million for the FEPASA railway
rehabilitation and expansion program; US$12 million for the Rio Grande do
Norte rural development project; US$85 million for a development banking
project for small and medium-sized industries; US$55 million for a secondary
and feeder roads project; US$40 million for an agricultural research project;
US$52 million for an electric power distribution project in the State of
Parana; US$50 million for an ammonia urea fertilizer project; US$19 million
for a nutrition research and development project; and US$50 million for a
power distribution project in the northeast. We are working actively with the
Brazilians on the preparation of a water and sewerage project in the state of
Minas Gerais, a rural development project in the same state, a second line of
credit for agro-industries, two additional fertilizer projects, and a power
transmission project in the south.
13.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while is share of Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
14.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of May 31, 1976, IFC has made 27 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$262.9 million, of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled,
US$20.4 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$83.0
million, US$60.6 million represents loans and US$22.4 million equity. A
summary of IFC's investments up to May 31, 1976 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One of these objectives is to ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development, a constraint that has become more critical
since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to
increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic
production for imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of
trade and balance of payments in the past two years, this objective has been
placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy. The proposed
agro-industry credit project is an important component of this policy since it
will support the Government's "export corridor" program which aims at increased
exports, particularly of agricult:ural products. By concentration on non-
traditional food and feed products, the project would also support agriculture
diversification, thus easing the country's dependence on two or three agricul-
tural export crops. Past Bank lending in agriculture in the center and south
of Brazil -- livestock development and grain storage -- has supported increased



- 6 -
agricultural productivity and most of the Bank-supported investments in the
transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate
the smooth and economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steel expan-
sion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets. The balance of payments would also be aided by Bank support of the
fertilizer projects.
16.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. The proposed agro-
industry credit project will contribute to an improvement in the allocational
capability of the six participating regional and state development banks, and
provide term financing to medium-sized agro-industries which have had limited
access to longer term credit. The recently approved development banking
project also has as a primary objective lnsLitutional development and policy
reform. The institution-building objective has also been important in Bank
assistance to the transportation sector where emphasis has been given to the
rational selection of investments, the strengthening of railway operations,
and the improvement of financial performance.
17.       Another important lending objective in Brazil is to support the
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the population,
to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to alleviate
poverty. By its positive impact on employment and on agricultural produc-
tivity, the proposed agro-industry credit project would contribute to the
attainment of these objectives. The recently approved nutrition research and
development and agricultural research projects and the Rio Grande do Norte
and Lower Sao Francisco integrated rural development projects were also
designed to assist low income groups. Government authorities, with the
collaboration of bank staff, are making a particular effort to help Brazil
develop additional integrated rural development projects to increase the
productivity of the small farmer in the Northeast, and we expect to present in
the future an increasing number of projects of this type. The water supply
and sewerage project for the State of Minas Gerais, designed particularly to
reach the low-income segment of the population would further assist low-income
groups, as would site and services and rural education proejcts.
18.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital
inflows that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in
order to sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives.   In some sectors, especially in electric power and
steel, the Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral
resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms.



- 7 -
PART III - AGRO-INDUSTRY IN BRAZIL
Agriculture
19.       Historically, the agricultural sector has made a significant contri-
bution to the overall development of B3razil. While, as a result of previous
relative government neglect, and its high susceptibility to price and weather
conditions, agricultural growth has lagged behind the growth in other sectors,
its recent performance has been satisfactory. Over the last 20 years, agricul-
ture output has increased by an annual average of 4.5% and the sector has been
able to supply an increasing proportion of Brazil's growing internal demand
for food and fibers, while producing a rising volume of export commodities.
During the period 1967-75, agriculture grew at an average annual rate of about
6%, despite adverse climatic conditions in three of the seven years. Some 45%
of the population earns its livelihood through agricultural activities. While
the sector's contribution to gross domestic product declined from 20% in 1967
to about 15% at present, it still accounts for 60% of total export earnings.
Three commodities -- coffee, soybeans and sugar -- generate 40% of total
export earnings. Yet: 60% of agricultural output is directed at the domestic
market; in terms of area of production and employment this market is far
more important than export crops.
20.       In 1974 alone, as a result of favorable weather conditions and govern-
ment policies, agriculture grew 8.5% and in 1975 in spite of the severe frosts
in several important states, agriculture output is estimated to have increased
by 3.4%. The South and Center South of Brazil, the areas in which the proposed
agro-industry credit project will be concentrated, are the most productive in
Brazil, accounting for 80% of the country's beef, all of its soya, 80% of its
milk and 85% of its c:itrus. Corn, rice and cotton are also widely grown.
21.       Government Policies.   The Government attaches utmost importance to
the expansion of agricultural production as a means of reviving and sustaining
high levels of economic growth.    A specific goal of the Government is to
attain a 40% real increase in agricultural output for the 1975-79 period, with
the aim of making Brazil one of the world's foremost producers and exporters
of food crops. In addition, agricultural growth is seen as a key generator of
foreign exchange to alleviate the balance of payments constraint on overall
growth and, by meeting growing domestic demand, a contributor to price stabil-
ization. To support the growth objective for agriculture, the Government has
(i) allocated substantial public resources to incorporate new areas to agricul-
ture production, (ii) promoted a significant expansion in the overall supply
of agricultural credit and liberalized the terms of credit for the purchase of
agricultural inputs, (iii) as a complement to credit, intensified and improved
agricultural extension, and (iv) continued efforts to increase productivity
and production optionis through modernization of agricultural research. Also,
to meet specific needs, certain special activities have been inaugurated.
These include the establishment of credit lines for storage facilities, an
extensive program for pasture improvement, and a scheme to insure farmers



- 8 -
against a large portion of losses resulting from natural disaster. In addi-
tion, less developed areas have received special attention through specific
regional programs, such as POLONORDESTE (see para. 9 above), POLOAMAZONIA and
POLOCENTRO, programs which provide financing of transport and rural infra-
structure in the North and Center West respectively. Federal policies are
complemented by individual state policies which assist the development of
sub-regions with special problems.
22.       Recently, the Government initiated programs designed to create and
strengthen institutions responsible for establishing and enforcing regulations
applicable throughout the country for the inspection and control of processed
food products. The proposed project would support this initiative.
Industry
23.       Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the economy
in the last seven years. During the period 1967 to 1974, real industrial output
increased at an average annual rate of 12.2%, increasing the share of industry
in GDP from 29% to 33%. Industrial growth decreased to 4% in 1975 as a result
of balance-of-payments constraints and is expected to increase to 5-6% in
1976. Industrial employment increased at an annual rate of 5.9% during the
1960s, as the proportion of the labor force employed by industry increased
from 13.1% in 1960 to 17.8% in 1970, with this trend continuing during the
1970s. The most dynamic element of this industrial expansion has been the
production of consumer durables and capital goods, which accounted for an
annual average rate of 18% during 1967 to 1974, and now accounts for about 28%
of total manufacturing production. Production of intermediate goods (chemicals,
paper, rubber, semi-finished metals), which account for 42% of manufacturing
output, has also increased at a good pace, averaging 12.2% since 1967. How-
ever, the traditional consumer goods industries (textiles, clothing, food
products) have been the slowest growing sector and their share in manufactur-
ing output declined from 36.2% in 1967 to 28.4% in 1974. The expansion of the
manufacturing sector in Brazil has been accompanied by substantial reduction
in tariff protection. In fact, it is estimated that the average effective
protection affforded to manufacturing industries has decreased from 101% in
1966 to 76% in 1967 to 47% in 1973. In the last two years, the average
effective protection has increased somewhat as a result of the Government's
efforts to improve the balance-of-payments situation.
24.       Government Policies.   The Government's overall policy in the indus-
trial sector is to stimulate development, based on modern technology, that
would enable Brazilian industry to compete internationally (again to help
alleviate the balance of payments constraint) and would increase employment
opportunities. To this end, the Government has sought (i) to increase and
diversify exports of manufactured goods; (ii) where economically justified,
to substitute domestic production for manufactured imports, especially in
the intermediate and capital goods categories; (iii) to disperse industrial
activity geographically so as to achieve a more equitable inter-regional
distribution of employment opportunities; and (iv) to strengthen small and
medium industrial enterprises. A wide range of fiscal incentives, including



- 9 -
tax rebates and the flexible ("crawling peg") exchange rate policy have in-
duced impressive performance in manufacturing exports and in the efficiency
and competitiveness of Brazilian industry. These, together with availability
of foreign credit and tariff protection for certain domestic goods, resulted
in a dramatic expansion in manufacturing exports (growth rate of 12.2% be-
tween 1967-74).
25.       As a part of its overall industrial development policies, the Gov-
ernment identifies the strengthening of small and medium industries as a key
component in its efforts to increase employment and decentralize industrial
production. The institutions with primary responsibility for achieving this
goal are the Brazilian Center for Managerial Assistance to Small and Medium
Industries (CEBRAE) and the National Economic Development Bank (BNDE). The
Bank is supporting BNDE in this initiative through the recently approved
development banking project (Loan 1206-BR). In its support of the regional
and state development banks, the proposed project would also assist this
effort.
Agro-Industries
26.       An important element of the Government's program in support of pro-
ductivity increases in agriculture and industry is the development of agro-
industries. As a mechanism for the integration of the farm sector with the
processing or industrial sector, agro-industries represent a powerful instru-
ment for the transformation and modernization of agriculture, with possibil-
ities for substantially increased agricultural output, expansion in employment
opportunities, lower food prices, higher per capita incomes, improved internal
capital inflows and linkages fostering economic growth. Due to a lack of
proper classification, no meaningful growth figures exist for agro-industries.
However, the significant increase in the demand for credit in support of agro-
industry activities suggests that agro-industry was an important factor in the
expansion experienced by both agriculture and industry over recent years. The
food and feed processing sectors of agro-industries have not kept pace with
the growth of agricultural output, however, creating further opportunities for
processed agriculture products to meet growing requirements for domestic con-
sumption and exports.
Financing of Agro-Industries
27.       Despite the significant expansion in total credit to industry as a
whole, availability of long-term financing for the manufacturing sector is
still limited. Correspondingly, agro-industries have had reasonable access
to short-term credit from the commercial banking system but long-term credit
remains limited. In part, this is the result of the structure of the finan-
cial market. Government sources, such as BNDE and the Caixa Economica Federal
(CEF), the large government savings institutions, have not had sufficient
resources to meet the heavy demand for long-term industrial finance. The
Brazilian stock market and the private investment banks have played a limited
role in the financing of industry, although the latter serve as channels for
industrial loans to cope with the problems of limited credit availability and
high cost of local industrial financing by contracting financial credits



- 10 -
abroad. Private financial intermediaries have also borrowed heavily abroad,
but in general only large firms have benefited from these sources. The
result of that combination of private external borrowings and limited domestic
credit has been to skew the availability of credit in favor of large firms
with access to externally generated funds.
28.       In an effort to improve the conditions and expand the flow of indus-
trial credit, the Government has made substantial funds available to BNDE by
transferring to that institution the administration of the retirement funds for
public and private employees (PIS and PASEP). In addition, the Government is
continuing to provide funds to the Central Bank to stimulate agro-industries.
Typical interest rates for agro-industry credit provided by the state develop-
ment banks--range between 3% and 5% with full monetary correction under the
system widely prevalent in Brazil. Under this system, principal and interest
are adjusted quarterly to reflect changes in the price level. The system
ensures that the interest rate structure is adequate from the point of view of
resource mobilization as well as of resource allocation, since positive real
interest rates generally prevail. The Government would give assurances that
changes in interest rates which could affect the proposed project, would not
be made without prior approval of the Bank (see paragraph 2.01 (c) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Previous Bank Lending for Agro-Industry
29.       In 1973, the Bank provided the Government with a loan of US$54
million (No. 924-BR) to help finance the modernization of agricultural proces-
sing industries in Brazil's Center-South. The loan proceeds, together with
an equal contribution by the Federal Government, have been channeled through
the Central Bank to the Banco do Brasil and the six participating regional
and state development banks of the South Central and Western states of Brazil.
The participating banks are allowed a spread of 2-1/2%. They relend the funds
to qualifying agro-industries for a period of 10 years, including up to three
years of grace, at an interest rate of 5% plus full monetary correction
(reduced in 1975 to 3% for loans in the less developed states of Espirito
Santo, Goias, Mato Grosso and Santa Catarina.)
30.       Commitment of the loan initially moved at a slower pace than origin-
ally expected due to difficulties in recruiting the management capability
required in the Central Bank and, later, to an apparent levelling off of
demand for credit by eligible industries. This demand has recently accelerated.
As of June 18, 1976, 81% of the first loan had been committed, and the balance
will most likely be fully committed by the end of July 1976. The first
project is helping to improve the appraisal capabilities of the Central Bank
and the state development banks in addition to providing sufficient resources
for expanding the country's agro-industries potential. Although only a few of
the approved subprojects have actually started operations, so that a full
evaluation of the first loan's benefits is not yet possible, it is expected
that the project's objectives will be met. During 1975, based upon satisfac-
tory performance by the Central Bank and the participating banks, the Bank
agreed to increase from US$1.5 million to US$4 million the size limit above



which prior Bank approval of subloans is required (involving a Bank participa-
tion of US$2 million). A requirement of prior Bank approval of each subloan
in certain sub-sectors was removed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       A report ent:itled "Appraisal of a Second Agro-Industries Credit
Project in Brazil" (974-BR, dated June 29, 1976) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project are summarized
in Annex III hereto. The project was appraised by Bank missions which visited
Brazil in May and July 1975. Negotiations took place in Washington from
March 29 to April 1, 1.976. The borrower was represented by a team headed by
Mr. Daphnis Rodriguez Valente, Manager, Banco Central do Brasil.
Project Description
32.       The proposed project would be a continuation of the first agro-
industries credit project and would finance the expansion and modernization of
agricultural processing industries in the nine Central and Southern states of
Brazil -- Espirito Santo, Goias, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso, Parana, Rio de
Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo and the Federal District
of Brasilia. In helping to meet the growing domestic and export demand for
processed food and fee!d products, the project would contribute to the Govern-
ment's "export corridor" program,-which aims at expanding and diversifying
exports in order to alleviate balance of payments constraints to economic
growth.   The project consists of a program of credit to industries engaged
in meat processing (roughly estimated to be 46% of total investment), grain
and soybean handling and processing (19%), milk processing (10%) and various
"miscellaneous" agro-industries (25%), including the manufacture of agricul-
tural inputs. The project would also provide funds for technical assist-
ance and training. All of the subprojects, with the exception of milk
processing, would have significant export components. Subprojects for milk
and meat processing and the manufacture of farm inputs would produce import
substitutes.
33.       The credits for meat processing would be extended principally to
finance construction of new plants and rehabilitation of existing facilities
to enable processors to increase production and meet domestic and interna-
tional sanitary standards. Investment would be made for processing and cold
storage facilities, as well as for refrigerated vehicles and improvements in
distribution outlets.   It is expected that credit demand for meat processing
will be concentrated in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Sao Paulo, Parana and
Minas Gerais. Credits for grain processing would be provided to rehabilitate
and expand existing facilities for a few major soybean processing plants to
enable producers to operate in a manner that would allow them to compete
internationally. Investments would be made mainly in storage, mixing and
bagging facilities. Most oilseed plant facilities would be located in the



- 12 -
states of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana and Minas Gerais. Expansion of milk
processing facilities would be located in milk producing regions with access
to large consumer centers, such as those in the states of Sao Paulo and Minas
Gerais. The credit made available under the miscellaneous category is
expected to finance a wide range of both export oriented and import substi-
tuting activities, such as fruit and vegetable canning, tanning, and egg
packing. Industries that produce certain inputs for agriculture, including
small-farm equipment, farm implements, mixed fertilizers and seeds would also
be eligible for financing. Firms producing such inputs would be small to
medium in size and would be located throughout the project area. The credit
extended for all activities included under the project would include the
financing of training or technical assistance to improve the management
capacities of the firms, the need for which would be determined by the parti-
cipating banks.
The Proposed Loan
Channelling of Funds
34.       As in the case of Loan 924-BR, the proposed Bank loan would be made
to the Government of Brazil, which would make the proceeds available to the
Central Bank on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan for relending
to the Regional Development Bank for the Extreme South (BRDE) covering Rio
Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Parana; the state development banks of Sao
Paulo (BADESP), Parana (BADEP) Minas Gerais (BDMG), Espirito Santo (BANDES),
Santa Catarina (BESC) and Rio de Janeiro (BDRIO), and to the Banco do Brasil.
In contrast to the first loan, private investment banks deemed suitable by the
Central Bank would also be eligible to participate in the Project, since a few
of these investment banks, having learned of the first phase of the credit
program, expressed interest in participating. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
35.       The participating regional and state development banks form part of
he nation-wide state financial intermediary system. Partly or wholly state-
owned, they are designed to meet state and regional requirements for term
financing of agricultural, industrial and service enterprises and, in some
cases, public sector infrastructure investment programs. They are considered
generally to be managed competently, although due to inflation, many of them
face serious erosion of their capital. Within the scope of the recently
approved development banking project (Loan 1206-BR), the Federal Government
has agreed to undertake a study of the equity erosion problem of state devel-
opment banks and to take the measures necessary to recapitalize them. The
Federal Government-controlled Banco do Brasil is the country's largest commer-
cial bank which has as its main objective the promotion of national output.
The addition of private investment banks judged by the Central Bank to be
qualified for participation will provide additional distribution outlets, and
should lead those institutions to take a greater interest than in the past in
long-term industrial lending.
Terms of the Proposed Loan and of Subloans
36.       Proceeds of the proposed Loan would be used to finance 40% of the
subloans made by participating banks for fixed assets and permanent working



- 13 -
capital of investment projects carried out by agro-industries, including
technical assistance and training. Under the first project, the Bank's loan
financed 50% of such subloans. Subloans to manufacturers would be equivalent
to 80% of the total cost of fixed investment (excluding land) plus permanent
working capital not to exceed 30% of fixed investments. Subloans would be
denominated in cruzeiros with principal adjusted periodically in proportion to
general price changes, as determined by the National Treasury Bond (ORTN)
price (Section 6 of Schedule to the draft Project Agreement). The interest
rate would be 5%, except that in the less developed states of Espirito Santo,
Goias, Mato Grosso and Santa Catarina, and the area north of the 18th parallel
in the state of Minas Gerais it would be 3%. The regional and state develop-
ment banks would be provided with a spread of up to 2-1/2%, and, as determined
by each participating bank in consultation with the Central Bank, a one-time
appraisal fee of up to 1% of the investment cost of the subproject. To ensue
satisfactory lending terms, subloans would carry maturities of ten years,
including a grace period of up to three years. Given the indexing of the
outstanding principal of subloans, the 3% and 5% interest rates are positive
in real terms, and would correspond to rates of about 9-11% in a country which
did not practice indexing but which experienced a rate of inflation of 6%.
Cost of Subprojects
37.       Based on forecasts by the Central Bank, the total cost of subproj-
ects receiving Bank funds would amount to around US$260 million equivalent, of
which an estimated 32% (US$83 million) would be the foreign exchange component.
The proposed Bank loan of US$83 million would thus be equal to the foreign
exchange content of the investment to be financed. The Central Bank would
contribute US$106 million, representing 41% of total project cost, the partici-
pating banks US$19 million or 7% of total project cost and the sub-borrowers
US$52 million, representing 20% of total project cost. It is estimated that
some 118 subprojects, with an average cost of US$2.2 million, would be financed
under the loan.
Subloan Approval Procedures
38.       Based upon satisfactory performance and prevailing procedures for
the approval of subprojects under the first loan (924-BR), the Bank would
delegate to the Central Bank extensive subproject approval authority. However,
in order to continue to review a limited but representative sample of sub-
projects, the Bank would retain the right to approve any subloan which
brought total subloans to an individual sub-borrower to more than US$5 million
equivalent (including about US$2.0 million from the Bank loan) or to more than
US$3 million equivalent (including about US$1.2 million from the Bank loan) in
the case of non-food or feed processing industry under the miscellaneous
category. The Bank would also reserve the right to approve of the first
subloan presented by any new participating bank (Section 2 of Schedule 1 to
the draft Loan Agreement). The Central Bank would allow the participating
banks somewhat lower free limits, varying in accordance with the capability of



- 14 -
the Bank, from US$1 to 3 million to an individual sub-borrower and up to US$1
million in respect of non-food and feed processing. On the basis of these
procedures, the Bank is likely to review, ex ante, about 30 subprojects during
the commitment period of the Bank loan, amounting to around 40% of the value
of the Bank loan. The Bank loan is expected to be committed within three
years after effectiveness.
Procurement and Disbursement
39.       Procurement procedures would be the same as those applied under the
first loan. Equipment needed for the project would be procured by sub-borrowers
either from suppliers of their existing equipment, if required for purposes of
standardization, or from new suppliers after price comparison among at least
three suppliers. Bid awards would be reviewed by participating banks. It is
expected that most of the procurement would be local. Domestic firms prcduce
a wide range of the equipment needed and they have demonstrated an ability to
compete internationally. Foreign firms are widely represented by domestic
affiliates that are expected to bid for project contracts. The Bank loan
would be disbursed against 40% of the participating bank's disbursements to
sub-borrowers.
Project Administration
40.       The Project Team established within the Central Bank to administer
the first Project would continue to administer the proposed Project. Although
its performance has been generally satisfactory, the Project team requires
additional capability in marketing analysis and the evaluation and design of
management systems. An assurance that this will be provided is contained in
Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement with the Central Bank. The
Central Bank would, with Bank assistance through the proposed Project, sup-
plement the initiatives to be taken by BNDE, through the development banking
project, to improve the management and technical capabilities of the partici-
pating banks.
Benefits, Risks and Justification
41.       The meat processing component of the proposed project would result
in increased and more hygienic production of meat for both the domestic and
export markets. The oilseed and grain processing would result in the consoli-
dation of small inefficient plants into larger, more efficient installations.
The milk processing and miscellaneous food and feed processing would generate
primary benefits in the form of greater and more efficient production and
greater net value added. In addition, the milk and beef processing as well
as miscellaneous agricultural inputs industries would produce substitutes
for products that are now imported. For the project as a whole, benefits in
the form of employment and incomes would accrue to input suppliers, including
farmers, civil works contractors, equipment suppliers and workers employed in
agro-industries. The consuming public would benefit from a more regular
supply of processed agricultural products without wide price fluctuations.
Also, substantial developmental impetus would be generated in several less
developed parts of the country.



- 15 -
42.       The project has no unusual risks, as evidenced by the successful
commitment of the preceding phase of the credit program for agro-industries.
43.       Financial rates of return, ranging from 14% to 36%, would provide
incentives adequate to induce investors to participate in the project. They
would be in the order of 20-35% for meat processing, 33% for oilseed proces-
sing, and 31-33% for milk processing. For the various miscellaneous activ-
ities, the rates of return would range between 14% and 30%. Indicative
economic rates of return for individual subprojects would range from 37% to
55% for beef processing; 45% for oilseed processing; 54% for milk processing;
and 24% to 47% for miscellaneous processing. It is anticipated that the
project will generate annual employment for about 4,000 persons during con-
struction and about 7,000 permanent jobs. Annual fiscal revenues generated by
thle project after full implementation in the form of income and value added
taxes are estimated at about US$32 million. The net export receipts generated
by the project over its lifespan are estimated at US$216 million. In general,
the project would serve as an important element of the Government's strategy
for agricultural and industrial growth.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
44.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Federative Republic of
Brazil, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco Central do
Brasil, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the draft Resolution approving the
proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The major features of these agreements have already been described in this
report.
45.       A condition of disbursement for all banks participating in the
project wou'ld be that they have entered into subsidiary loan agreements with
the Central Bank. A special condition of loan effectiveness would be that
the Central Bank has entered into a subsidiary loan agreement, containing
lending criteria satisfactory to the Bank, with at least one of the banks
participating in the project.
46.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 16 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
47.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 29, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 1 of is pages
TABLE 3A
BRtAZIL              W, BOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNUT
LAND AREA (THOU 4M23 
...............            ........... BR.A.ZIL --------------- REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      551220                                          MOST RECENT
AGUGI.     .                              1960        1970   ESTIMATE            MEXICO          URUGUAY        JAPAN 1
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                         000         300         700200                            0*0       2570.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)               69*5        92.8        101.1                50.7          2.9       200.3
POPULATInN DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM*                            8,0        11.0         12.0                2b.0         16.0       260.0
PER SQIVAE KM. AGRIC. LAIID......
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            Iso.8       38.4s        37.1                4a3.1        22.1         17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            11.7         9.9          8.8                10.2          9.2         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THnU)           180.0       110.0           .                 69.0          .0          3* 
LIFE EYPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)           56.0        59.7         61.4s               61.0                     71.1I
GROSS REPRODlICTION RATE                  2.6         2.6          2.S                 3.1          1.4         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                     3.0         2.9          2.9                 3.5          1.3         1.0
UPRAN                                     5.5         5.0          Is.3                5.5          ..0
URBAN POPULATION CX If TOTAL)              06.0        56.0         59.1 La             59.0           a. 81.4
AGF STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO to YEARS                           43.0        02.0         L1.7/,              016.0       28.0         20.0
15 TO 60 YEARS                           50l.0       55.0         55.1 /s5.                       64.0         68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                         3.0         3*0          3.2 Za              0.0          a.0         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9          0.6a        0.5 a  a            1.0          0 .6        0.,5
ECOINOMIt DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.6          1.5         1.2 /'7              2. 0        1.0         0.6
FAMILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)               .        250.0           .                 55.5
USERS (2 OF MARRIE) WOMEN)                 ..1.6                     ..
EM5L fY mE NT
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (THOUSAND)           227 00 .0    249600 .0    37750.0             1 3 0 0.0    1100.0      5 330 0. 0
LABOR F3RCE IN AGRICULTURE I5)             52.0        40.0           ..                 0.0         17.0        19.0
JNEMPLOYED CS OF LABOR FORCE)                8..                       .                   .B0                    1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D ?Y-
KBTE     5%O   DB    L                   28.0 L       35.0 La
M~HST2~OPmIJuo~1.~         5b.o ~       62.0                            17.8         19. 1~      IA.
MIOWET 2071O WU8REOL                     54..00                                        63.2        07. 7       37.6
LWUT 40O% OF HmUSBLDO                    1 2.0 a8     10.0a Zj0.2                                  140           882
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OONERSHIP
S OWNED By TOP 101 OF OWNERS                 ..        55.0           .                    ..
S OWNED By SMALLEST l0% flWNERS              ..1.5                    .                    ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 2170.0      1950.0      2 07 0.0             I41400. 0    990. 0       a880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                ..      3300.0 /b   2920.0               I 170.0     3860.0        200.0
03PULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               275.0       260.0           9. 30.0                      160.0         80,0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES CS OF REQUIREMENTS)            1n2.0       109.0       110.0                110.0       107.0        106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  bI.0        64.0        65.0                 65.0        96.0         76.0
.OF wHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            38.0         39.0           .                 28.oLSa     60.0         05.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1.                   .            .a.                            9.8          1.3         1.0
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOLi                         I 00 .0      87.0         71.0               100.0        110.0       101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         11.0        28.0        71&.0                23.0        59.0         91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 13.0        13.0        13.0                 12.0        12.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENTI
(% OF SECONDARY)                         29.0        17.0         18.0                20.0        21.0         20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATECB                      61.0        66.0           .                 76.0         91.0        99.0
MOJSING
PERSONS PEP ROOM (AVERAGE)                   .          1.0         0.1                  2.2          .           1.0
ICCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER CX%)                                     73.0 La     67 .0 /b             61.0 lb       ...0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
CX OF ALL DWELLINGS)                       .         48.0        53.0                 59.0
RURALi DWELLINGS CONJNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY I)*                                    8.0         11.0                28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             66.0        60.0         6t.0               276.0        306.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOLI POP)              7.0        25.11        29.0                25.0         02.0        85.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              328.0       ost.0        500.0               586.0        762.0      3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   3.3         2,7          2.6                 3.1          7.2        18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOT-ES
Dolesa otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, and for Most Recen t Eatfisate to 1971-73.
Japan has been selected as an objective Country since the Bresili.n Governmnt has shown particular interest in Japan's developmental experience; also,
the two govermets hsve conducted joint studies to identify possible futore economic problems of Brsoil on the basis of the enperiesce in Japes.
BRAZIL                1960    Is   Econmically active popuistion.
1970    /a   Economically sctive population ;   Lb   Hoopito1 personnel,    /0  Inside only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE,      /s  1974;   /b  Ratio of populstion under 15 sod 65 end over to total labor force,       Ic  Hospitsl personnel,
/dInside wiily.
MEXICO                1970     Ia  1964-66     /b  Inside only.
URUGUAY               1970     Ia  1967
R8, Hay 26, 1976
DEFINITIONS4 OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou on2)                                                               Population yer norin prom-Population dividcd by number of practicing
Total -Total sorface aeao comprising land ares sead inland waters.                   mal  an     enae g   ce nrsea, "tained" or "certified" namses, an~d
Agric.- Mont recant estimaste of agricultural ares used teonporarily or              auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
pe,manently for crops, pasotaue, market & kitchen gardens or to lie              Population per bopt      bd - Population divided by nunber of hospital beds
fallow,                                                                            availale in pcblic and private general and specialized hospital and
rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing baone and entablishmento for
GIIP   capta,,SI~- GUIP per capita estimates at market pricen, calco-          custodial and preventive carn
dby saneconersion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-74. basio).             Pe   aiaspl         fclre          o   earemets) - OCeputed from energy
equivalent of n,e0t foCod supplies availal      country Pe r capita per day;
and viastatistico                                                              available supplies comprisc domeotic production, i     ots lens exports,
nmid-t *       o     As of July first:    if not available,               and changes in stock; not supplios exclude animal foed, seeds, quanti-
aeaeof two      ya   esimate.a                                                ties ased in fond processing and loosen in distribution; requirements
were estimated by FAO based on physiological nceds for normal activity
Populatio0n.deFnsitty - pe.rfs5am,b    Mid-year, population per sqauro kilo-         and health considering environmenntai tenperature, body weights, age and
motor(1)hctao)o           oa are   a.tso                                               distributions of population, and allowig 10% for waste at house-
Populatiotnurdensity -,per scuare be of agric. land - Computed as abov    for        bold level.
agriculua     landony                                                            Per capita supply of protein (groan per day) - Protein content of pur
capita net supply Of fnod per day; not supply of food is defined us
Vital statistics                                                                     above; requiremonts for all countries established by USDA Economic
Crade birth rate per thousand - Annusal live births per tlsosan~d of mid-            Research Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
Year population; te-year arithestin averages scnding Ba 1960 a*d 1970,             protein per day, and 20 grans, of animal and pulse proteinc of which
and five-year aserage ending in 1975 for most, resent estl.mate.                   10 gran  should be animal protein; thoso standards are lower than those
Crude death rats.e    thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year              oR 75 grans or total protein and 23 grams, of animal protein as an~
population; ten-eararithmotin averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and                 average for the world, proposed by FA0 in the Third World Food Survey.
five-year aVerg    enin    n 1976 for meet recent estimate.                      Per capita poensply from         animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
Infant mortalitraeChou) - Annual. deaths of infants -nder one year of                derid frmaials and, pulses in grans per day.
ago per thousand lve births.                                                    Death rate C/,thOu    es 1-_ - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
Lifeexpetam  at birth  osl - Average number of yearn of life remaining         1-1.7 y-ikfiflPi             this age group; suggested as an indicator of
at birtfit  iiIIjfl17(        averages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975 for           malnutrition.
developing countrien.
Gro:sseiprhoduotio  rate-Average number of live daughters a woman will             Education;lpn           ayo   r:y       hol-Erlmn             fa      gsa
Th~iiKhfli1   al rFep-oductine period if she experiences present age-         Adjusted  noletrto-piaysho                      hoieto         l   gsa
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               percentage of primary schoolag     ppulation; includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countrien.                                            6-11 years hot adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Populato   grwh rate (5         otal - Compound annual growth rates of mid-          fnr countries with universal education, enrollment moy exceed 100%
yeaipoulaion fo    t95-0     _9070, and 1970 to nest recent year.                simce nsae pupils are below or above the official school ag.
Population growth rate 1%   -uban - Computed Like growth rate of total             AdJustedrenrollment ratio - secondar school - Computed an above;
popul ation; different dafinitions of urban areas nay affec,t compara-             seondar    education requimes at lea.ntour yours of approved primary
billty of data among countries.                                                    instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training
Urban'O poultio      of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                 instruc.tions for pupils of 12 to 17 years, of age; correspondence
different deinitionsof uban areas ma       affect compaability of data             courses are generally excluded.
among countries.                                                                 Yearn of schooling provded(ist adsecondevels)- Total years of
AgpRe  p str   ppran) - Children (0-14. yearn), working-ago (15-64. years),          schooling;   tscodr      level, vctional istroction may be pa--
retired        yearn and over) as peroentages of mid-year population.            tially or completely excluded.
Ake -eed-         ai    Ratio of population under 16 an~d 65 and over to          Vocatinnal enrollmenta (%of secrondary) - Vocational institutions include
those of ags 15 throngh 61..                                                       technical,-industria   or othe   programs which operate independently or
EConomoic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 16 and 65 an,d ovcr           as departments of secondary institutions.
to the labor force in age grUP of 15-64. years.                                  AdltjiEtaerapy rte~t (5) - literate adults (able to reed and write) as
Family plannin   - anesptors (cmuative     thou) - Camulative namber of              poeent&gh6ftaliTadult population aged 16 years and over.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family
planning program since inception.                                                Hosp
Famil,y planning - users C% of mrid      owomn) - Percentages of married           fr=o()p!r opep-erage) - Average number of personsn per room in
women of child-besring sge (15?..years ) who use birth -control devices            occupied conventiona   wvellings in urban area; dwellings exclude
to ill married women in sane age group,                                            non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.
Occupied dwellingLs without iped meter (5     - Occupied conventional
boployment                                                     dwellings~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   inubnadrr  areas without inside or outside piped
7PF24jasot   orce (thousnd) - Economically activa persons, incloding                 water facilities as percentage of all Occupied dwellings.
armed forces and unMPIoyad but excluding housewives, studects, etc.;            Access to electricit    (5 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
definitions8 in various coantries are not oouparable.                              electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban,
Labor forcea in agiculture()- Agricultural labor fOrce (in farming,                  and rural uresa.
forestry, hunting and fishng) as peroentage of total labor force.                Rural dwellingo connected to electricity (5) - Computed as above for
Unegpl    d    of lab5sor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons         rualdeligs only.
0h areable and willing to take a job, out of a job on a gives day,
remained out of a job, an,d seeking work for a specified minimum period         Consumption
not exceeding one week; may not be comoparable between countries due to TEio re55OTvr:9(er thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
different definitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employ-             casts in gone     PubicTiperFthousand Of population; excludes unlicensed
mint office statintico, swople surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance,        receivers in countries and in yearn when registration of radio sets was
in effect; data for recent years cay not be comparable since, most
Income disftribution - Percontage of private income (both in cash and kind)         countries abollshod licensing.
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 4.0% of           Pas2e         a~s o      hupp   - Passenger cars comprise omtor curs, scat-
households.                                                                       ing ionas than eiht persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
vehicles.
Diotribution of landowership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest             Elcticity      /rarsp)-Annual conswoption of industrial, con-
10%  nd pores  10%of and owners.                                             MieiI      iSlii       La electricity in kilowatt hours Per capita;
generally based on production data, without allomence for losses in
Health andi Nutrition                                                               grids but al-loving fur imports andl exports of electricity.
p.Rlaio  pyaca.- Population divided by number of practicing                Ne,Q     t?~.       Ecp     - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
physicians, quliie     rom a medical school at university level.                  etmtdfo        domestic production plus net imports of new,oprint.



ECONOMIC DEVElOP?9W    DATA                                                  ANNEX      I       L
(In million, of U.S. dollars)                                                  Page     3   Of
A   al          jp.    d      %ro1Ct e1tad    Av                                  As DC      Of GDY
1971- 1972        1973 U            1975     1   9   s 19_7       0-74     1197-76      ,,A.$| "1970o    U19419tO
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS L                      Amounts in 1973 Prices and exchane rates
Gross domestic product              62,710   69,608   77,891   85,369  88,357    121,700    11.0        4.2        7.0      100.6     100.6    100.7
Gains from term of trde(+)           - 609    - 598      -      -469     - 965    -819        .          .          .       - 0.6     - 0.6    - 0.7
Gross dometic income                62,101   69,010   77,891   84,900  105,278   120,881    11.0        3.7        7.1      100.0     100.0    100.0
Imports (incl. 178)                  5,199    6,357    7,577   10,073   9,183    11,264     24.0       -5.6        5.7        7.6      11.9      9.3
Exports (import capacity)            4,098    5,218   6.596    5,987    6,705    10,784     10.2       10.2       10.6        7.2       7.1      8.9
Resource gap                         1,101    1,139      981    4,086    2,478      480        .         .          .         0.4       4.8      0.4
Consumption                         50,437   54,547  61,529   66,578   69,020    91,586      9.7        3.0        6.5       82.2      78.4     75.8
Investment                          12,765   15,602   17,343  22,408   20,910    29,775     22.0        0.5        7.1       18.2      26.4     24.6
Domestic savings                    11,664   14,463   16,362   18,322  18,432    29,295     16.4        6.7        8.9       17.8      21.6     24.2
National savings                    11,078   13,784   15,655   17,722   17,482    27,933    17.0        5.8        9.0       16.9      20.9     23.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual data at current Prices                                                  As percent of tot-l
Imports
Capital good.                      1,241    1,734    2,143    3,108    3,569     7,522    31.0       14.3       16.7      42.8       24.8     36.1
intermediate goods (excl.fuels)    1,210    1,451    2,233   5,091    4,636      7,343    57.0       -5.4       12.6      35.2       40.6     35.3
Fuels and related materials          316      449      727    2,812   3,022     4,344     63.0        5.6        8.5       9.4       22.4     20.9
of which:  Petroleum               251      344      605    2,495    2,650     3,711    71.0        4.3        6.1       6.9       19.9      17.8
Consumption goods                    478      598    1,089    1,519    1,221    1,610     42.0      -11.0        6.7      15.0       12.1       7.7
Total merchandise imports (fob)    3,245    4,232    6,192   12,530   12,448    20,819     50.0        1.9      12.5      100.0     100.0     100.0
Export.
Primary products (excl. fuels)     2,315    3,063   4,718     5,606   6,987    13,142     25.0       17.0       14.4      84.8       70.4     61.2
Fuels and related materials           19       36       52      65        70      101     55.0        7.4        7.7                  0.8      0.5
of which: Petroleum                  8       16       16       30       30       40        .         .          .        0.4        0.4      0.2
Manufactured goods                   570      892    1,429    2,297    2.793    8,231     55.0        22.5      24.0       14.8      26.8     38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)    2,904    3,991    6,199    7,968    9,850    21,474     31.0       18.6      17.7     100.0       100.0   100.0
Merchandise trade indices                                1973-100
Export price index                    67       73      100      134      140      201     18.4        4.6        8.2
Import price index                    77       82      100      145     158       216     14.3        7.9        6.4
Terms of trade index                  87       89      100      93       88        93
Export volume index                   71       88      100      96       113      172     10.0       13.7        8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTDR /2                Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                        Aa percent of GDP
Agriculture                          8,850    9,212    9,535,  10,346   10,760    13,995      6.8        4.5        5.5      14.6       15.1     14.3
Industry and mining                 15,875   18,066   20,776   22,480  23,222    32,805      12.0       4.2        7.7      32.7       32.8     33.6
Services                            25,554   28,532   32,140   35,620  36,860    50,777     11.1        4.3        7.0      52.7       52.1     52.1
Total                               50,279   55,810   62,451   68,446   70,842    97,577     11.0       4.2        7.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                          Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates
(Federal Government)
Current receipts                   6,168    7,316    8,629    9,757  10,399    15,540     16.9        6.2        9.0       9.4       11.5      12.8
Current expenditures               3,553    3,558    4,227   4,577    5,032      7,107     8.5        9.1        6.9       5.9        5.4      5.9
Budgetary saving                   2,615    3,758    4,402    5,180   5,367     8,433     28.0        3.5       11.0       3.5        6.1       7.0
Other public saving                3,393    3,669    4,832    5,825   6,348     10,510    15.5        9.0       10.7       5.0        6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment     6,404    9,037    8,705   9,667    10,344   15,198     15.8        7.5        8.0       9.8       11.4     12.6
US$ million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR             at 1973 prices and ER
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                        1971-74  % of Total
Social Sectors                            4,504       11.3
Agriculture                                 187        0.5
Industry and Mining                       6,060       15.2
Power                                     5,499       13.8
Transport and Communications              7,384       18.6
Regional development                      1,441        3.6
Other /3                                 14 712       37.0
Total expenditure                        39,787      100.0
FINANCING
Public sector savings                  33,674       84.6
Foreign borrowings (net)                5,762       14.5
Domestic borrowings                       351        0.9
Total financing                        39,787      100.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                Total labor force                 Value added per worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
In millions      % of total        1960-70      In U.S. dollars     7 of avera,e        1960-70
1960    1970    1960    1970    Growth rate      1960      1970     1960    1970     Growth rate
Agriculture                          12.2    13.1    54.0   44.4         0.7           --       402      --       33         --
Industry                              3.0    5.3     13.3   18.0         5.8          __      2,222      --      182
Service                               7.4    11.1   32.7    37.6         4.1          --      1.706      --      140         --
Total                                22.6    29.5   100.0   100.0         3.1          --      1,220      --      100        --
not applicable
not available
L   The national accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 census. GDP in 1970 has been revised upward
by about 20%, mainly in the industrial sector. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2 Net domestic product at factor cost.
/3 Includes financial investment.
May 14, 197S



ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYIMTS   ErMXRL A8SIBTAICE AID D8BT                                     Tags     L   of   4
(In millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
1971    ALi         19 7       TM        1973      1976      1977                  1979      1980        1985
SU)gARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
xprts (incl. M9)                      3,175     4,272     6,596      8,568    10,614    12,116    14,001    16,422     19,507     23,274     52,488
Imports (inl NS)                      4,028     5.205     7,577    15        IW5        . 11.4   1641       18.683     20,95      24,308     50,264
Resource balance  X-M)                 985     3  -953  -       t  -6,0      -3.9      -3,112    -2,853     -2,26       1,43t     -1,045       ,224
Interest (net)                       - 302     - 359 _, - 514      - 650     -1,273    -1,469    -1,747     -2,009     -2,272     -2,503     -3,053
Direct investment income             -166      _  202    - 220      - 240    -   270   - 304     - 342      -  384     - 432      - 486      - 877
Workers' remittance                      -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -          -         -          -
Current Tranafers (net)                 14          5       *27        23        40        50        50         50         50         50         50
IIC1 nZ on current account      -t.307         -_1489    -1         -6.8      -O        -4 .mff             -_46-      -_.        -3.974     -1.656
Privat* direct inveetent                168       318       940       845       940      1,035     1,135     1,275      1,435      1,615      2,908
Madius- and long-term loans
Disburements                          835     1,099     1,376      1,800     2,025     2,226     2,443     2,654      3,004      3,397      6,218
-Repayments                         _ 441     - 525     - 670     -7        - 779     -  745    -  793     -         868 -1 2    -I 28      -2.867
Net disbursements                       394       574       706      1,        1,245     1.481     1.50      1,         1,942       2,115     3,351
Financial credits
Disbursemnts                        1,442     3,396     3,151      5,017     3,819    4,509     5,054      5,258      5,386      5,587      1,524
-Repavments                         - 641     - 860     -1.058     -1. 300   -1.579   -2.190     -2 946    -3 715     -4 .130    -4 500     -4.404
Net disbursements                       801     2,536     2,093      3,717     2,240     2,319     2,107      1,543      1,255      1,080     -2,880
Capital trans.actions n.e.i.            504       626       377        194                       -          -                    -          -
Change in reserves (--increase)      - 560     -2.565    -2,428      1,049     1,000       _         _          _      _ 519       - 836     -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COMaITMENTS                                                                                                Actual              Estimated
197-1      1972       1973       1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                    Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                  256      455        199                  and disbursed               4,122      5,509      6,496      9,096
IDB                                   133       180       250                Interest on public debt         211        296        440        619
Governments                           199       249       270                Repaymnt on public debt         608         758        953      1,081
Suppliers                             324       350       775                Total public debt service(gross)819      1,054       1,393      1,700
Bonds                                  -         -        80                 Other debt mervice (grosql      607        820       1,175     1,570
Loans n.e.i.                          121       100       110        _       Total debt service (net)li     1,384      1,744      2,242      2,670
Total medium- and long-term loans     1,033     1,334     1,684                Burden on export earnings (-)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                  Actual debt outstandins oti March 31. 1974  publi deb      i                25.8       24.7        20,6       1<7.4
Disbursed only             Percent Total debt service                43.6       40.8       34.0       31.2
IBRD                                              708                   10.0    TDS + Invet. Inc.                48.8       45.6       37.3       34.0
Governments                                     1,85                    25:6    Average Terms on
Suppliers                                       1,008                   14.2
Bonds                                             149                    2.1    Int. as   prior year DO & D      6.0         7.2        8.0        9.5
Financial credits                               2,875                  40.5    Amort. as 7. prior year DO & D   17.4        18.4      17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                273                    3.8
Total public debt                               7,095                  100.0    IBRD debt outs. & disbursed     347       484        647        872
IBD as % public debt 0 & D        8.4        8.8       10.0        9.6
I8RD as 7 total debt 0 7, D       5,2        5.0        5.1        5.0
IBRD as   publitc debt service    4.2        4.8        5.0        4.3
IBRD as 7, total debt service     2.5        2.9        2.9        2.7
Li Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                       May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of May 31,1976)
Loan                                                         Amount Less    Undis-
No.    Year           Biorrower                    Purpose  Cancellations   bursed
(US$ million)
Twenty-Five Loans Fully Disbursed                                679.1
403    1965    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito I                         Power         57.0       0.1
474 /1 1966    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito II                        Power         39.0       0.7
566    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande              Power         26.6       0.6
677    1970    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Marimbondo                         Power         80.0       5.3
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio              Power         70.0      14.6
755    1971    Brazil                               Education      8.4        4.3
756    1971    Brazil                               Ports         45.0       34.3
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgotos da Capital                 Water Supply  22.0      10.7
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de           Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo            Control       12.0       5.7
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways      46.0        5.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry      64.5        6.7
812    1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                             Industry      63.0      10.5
813    1972    Brazil                               Roads         89.0        5.6
828    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry      64.5        9.4
829    1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao                Power         60.0      15.0
853    1972    Brazil                               Land Settl.    6.7        6.0
854     1972    Brazil                              Roads          51.0         3.7
857     1972    Banco do Brasil                     Grain Storage   23.7        5.5
868     1972    Brazil                              Livestock       26.0        5.8
887     1973    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade      Power           20.0       18.0
923     1973    Furnas Centrais Eletricas -
Itumbiara                         Power         125.0      105.1
924     1973    Brazil                              Agro-Indus.    54.0        38.1
1008    1974    Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV       Power          81.0       81.0
/1   In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of May 31,1976)
Loan                                                           Amount Less   Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                      Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
1009    1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao          Water Supply    36.0       34.5
1067    1974    Brazil                               Education       23.5       23.4
1074    1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways       175.0      174.1
1075    1975    Brazil                               Roads          110.0      103.0
1151    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry        95.0       95.0
1152    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry        60.0       60.0
1153    1975    Brazil                               Agriculture     23.0       22.9
1171    1975    FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista             Railways        75.0       75.0
1195 /1 1976    Brazil                               Rural Develop. 12.0        12.0
1206 /1 1976    Brazil                               Develop. Bank   85.0       85.0
1207 /1 1976    Brazil                               Feeder Rds.     55.0       55.0
1256 /1 1976    Petrobras Fertilizantes              Fertilizer      50.0       50.0
1257 /1 1976    Companhia Paraense de
Energia Eletrica - COPEL          Power           52.0        52.0
Total                                            2,665.0 /2 1,233.8
Of which has been repaid to the Bank and others 296.1
Total now outstanding                            2,368.9
Amount Sold                         40.2
of which has been repaid           10.3            29.9
Total now held by Bank                           2,339.0
Total undisbursed                                            1,233.8
/1   Not effective as of May 31, 1976.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.    A loan of US$40.0 million for
an agriculture research project was signed June 23, 1976. A US$19.0
million loan for a nutrition project and a US$50.0 million loan for a
power distribution project in the Northeast were approved by the
Executive Directors on June 24, 1976.



ANNEX 11
Pose 3 of 10
B.  STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MAY 31. 1976)
Year                                       Obligor                             Type of Business                                    Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity   Total
1957                            Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade         Electrical Equipmant                                 2.00      -      2.00
1958                            Olinkraft, S.A. Colulose e Papel               Pulp and Paper                                       1.20      _      1.20
1958                            D.L.LRPlasticos do, Brasih, S.A.               Automotive Parts                                     0.45      -      0.45
1958                           Willys-Overland do, Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                         motor Vehicles                                       2.45      _       2.45
1959                            Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.    Cement                                               1.20      _       1.20
1959                            Champion Calulose, S.A.                        Pulp                                                 4.00      -      4.00
1966/1968/
1972                            Acos Villares, S.L.                            Steel                                                8.00    1.93      9.93
1966/1969                       Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.             Pulp and Paper                                       4.06    3.13      7.19
1967/1972                       Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria 0 Comercio de
Fertilizantes                                Fertilizers                                          8.22    3.03     11.25
1969                            Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                       Petrochemicala                                       5.50    2.88     8.38
1970                            Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio        Petrochemicals                                       5.50    2.88     8.38
1971                            Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio             Petrochemicals                                       4.60    1.44     6.04
1971                            Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.         Pulp                                                 4.90      -      4.90
1972/1975                       Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas         Cement                                              29.14    3.20    32.34
1973/1974                       Companhis Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA   Steel                                               67.00    6.50     73.50
1973                            Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP       Capital Market Development                           5.00      -       5.00
1973                            Empress de Deaenvolvimento de RecurAos         Nickel Mining and Refining                          26.00    4.40    30.40
Minerois - CODIEMIN, S.A.
1974                            Industrias Villares, S.A.                      Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                                          6.00      -      6.00
1974                            Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.               Textiles                                            31.00      _      31.00
1975                            Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.              Carbon Black                                         6.18    1.08      7.26
1975                            Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                         Petrochemicals                                      10.00      -      10.00
Total Gross Commitments 1/                                                                        232.40   30.47    262.87
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                            171.84    8.09    179.93
Total Cosmmitments Now Held by IFC                                                                 60.56   22.38     82.94
Total Undisburaed                                                                                  16.18    0.80     16.98
1/ A US$7.45 million commitment (consisting of a US$6.45 million loan and US$1.00 million in equity) to Santista Industria Textil do Nordeste S.A.
was approved on April 22, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of May 31, 1976)
There are now 31 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:    US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 8, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:    US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months by
spillway foundation difficulties but progress has since been
satisfactory. The project was completed in September 1975 with
a cost overrun of US$138 million due to foundation problems and
cost increases in equipment. However, the project remains econ-
omically justified. The Closing Date of the loan was postponed a
second time to June 30, 1976, to permit payments to continue on
several purchases already placed. The original Closing Date was
January 31, 1975.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:    US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Loan No.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progress-
ing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four generating
units are now in commercial operation.   A cost overrun of about
US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction costs,
is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The cost overrun is being financed
by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction
of the transmission system, delayed to allow required modifications,
is proceeding satisfactorily.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:   December 31, 1977.    Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date:  January 13, 1972; Closing Date:   June 30,
1977. The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are
now included in the state budget. The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new
company was concluded on December 18, 1974. Because of the re-
organization of the sector and of management problems which are
now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June 30, 1975, has



ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 10
Loan No.
been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the project is expected
to improve with new management of the company which took office
recently.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the State into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project is expected to improve with new management which took office
recently.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
July 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is US$736 million, an in-
crease of about 71.5% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 80%
complete and is about eleven months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% from the appraisal estimate due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 90% complete and is
about twelve months behind the original schedule. Implementation
of Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well under-
way. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisal forecast, and a one-year postponement of the
Closing Date will be required.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$758
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed, the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11% above the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
After some initial difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects,
the project had been progressing satisfactorily. However, in April
1975 the Government adopted a national grain storage financing
program involving subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on
October 28, 1975, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the
uncommitted balance (about 20%) of the loan. Disbursement of the
loan is proceeding as scheduled.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully com-
mitted and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The project is proceeding normally. The Central Bank
expects to complete commitment of project funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Execution of these plans is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e.Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). Due to subproject preparation problems that
are now resolved, disbursements have been substantially behind
schedule. However, the loan is now fully committed to 38 sub-
projects and the way has been cleared for their rapid implementa-
tion.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is expected
to be completed by the target date. Project implementation units have
been established in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, are underway and
are expected to yield useful information for future sector investment
planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several low priority items have been
deleted or postponed. A second revision is now underway which
should further reduce the Plan to a more manageable size. These
revisions are not expected to affect significantly the items in-
cluded under Bank financing. The financial situation of the
Borrower deteriorated in 1975, in spite of higher revenues, because
of increased costs of materials and higher social charges. Pro-
curement is progressing reasonably well, although slower than
expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:   US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  May 15, 1975; Closing Date:   December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule. Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Project is proceeding according to schedule.
Procurement for equipment is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Prolect - Stage III:   US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing  Date:  June 30, 1980.   Project is proceeding according to
schedule. Procurement for equipment is underway.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects on the project
area population of the hydroelectric developments upstream.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):   US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport Master Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:          The Central Bank of Brazil
Amount:                US$83 million equivalent
Terms:                 Payable in 15 years including 4 years of grace of 8.85%
interest per annum.
Relending Terms:       Loan proceeds would be relent in cruzeiros by the
Central Bank to six regional and state development
banks and qualifying private investment banks (parti-
cipating banks), for agro-industries. Interest rates
to beneficiaries would be 3% in the relatively less
developed states of Goias, Mato. Grosso, Espirito
Santo and Santa Catarina and the area north of the
18th parallel in the state of Minas Gerais and 5% in
all other states. Loan principal would be subject to
full monetary correction. Subloans would carry
maturities of up to 10 years, including up to three
years of grace. The participating banks would retain
a spread of up to 2-1/2% and, as appropriate, charge
an appraisal fee of up to 1% of the investment costs
of the subproject. The foreign exchange risks will
be assumed by the Government.
Project Description:   The project comprises the financing of construction,
expansion and modernization of agricultural proces-
sing industries; including training and technical
assistance.
Final Date for
Subproject
Submission:           October 31, 1979



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Free Limit:            Prior Bank approval would be required for any subloan
which brought the subloan to an individual sub-borrower
to more than US$5 million, or in the case of non-food
and feed processing industry under the miscellaneous
category, more than US$3 million; and for the first
subproject to be financed by any new participating
bank.
Procurement:           Procurement would be through normal commercial channels
subject to three quotations from suppliers in cases
where standardization does not apply.
Estimated
Disbursements:                              US$ Million by IBRD Fiscal Year
FY77   FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81   FY82
Annual           12.0   16.0   18.0   17.0   11.0     9.0
Cumulative       12.0   28.0   46.0   63.0   74.0   83.0
Rate of Return:        The financial rates of return on subjects are expected to
be: (a) meat processing 20-35%, (b) oil seed processing
33%, (c) milk processing 31-33% and miscellaneous process-
ing 14%-30%. Indicative economic rates of return are 37%
to 55% for beef processing, 45% for oilseed processing,
54% for milk processing and 24% to 47% for miscellaneous
processing.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 974 BR, dated June 29, 1976.



516'~~~~~~~~~~5               JRav4R  ~
12'                                47             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12-.
[./                             X                   ''                Ill._   BRAZIt
|F6rt Aftlw                                                    MAPEA
AMP
~~~~~  G ~~~~~~~~~South
M  A    T O               f\OFEDERAL                    O
J                      of        Iol Ao |S4<                   9Ae-
Ce1obo           1                   DISTRICT             No    -M
A~~~~~~~~
<~~~                      ~ (  /      ASLI?A2                          \S*   f
1/  G   R  O  S   S                 (3 C J   GOIAN,A t o         oones Cior
\rogur,o a2             /
e                rnpofo4l
)>ir-:~~~~~~~~~~Joa                  ontz     m I w       o-  ,VN 
Corumb                                                    ure
L'berlbodlo        ~~~~~~~~~GOV VALD AFES  Mjvl' 1
r    \      [ Ot    rrE  I S  oNE RO
-24' 2~qu Movo2               dlgu3O /\ 2-
P A VR A G U A Y  3     \X/ / \ /          SANT:A bei
Ao           R or BrO ilhnte  Al  
Be                            e ft
...... ..\..  Doeu  g o  0cl   \                                   o,.
f~~~~~etRs R)/odSul I                    AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT I1 i
our xi aGiruo  J        )oolel LOCATION OF SUB-PROJECTS flNANCED z
A R G E N T 1 N A /  <     S       ~UNDER AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT I!
Pord            /  eIsi                                     DETubro  Q  8EEF PROCESSING
af \ R  I O  G  R sx N  D IE  ProtX/  o  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILSEED PRtOCESSING
0t   \  |    G-v                     A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MISCELIANEO,JS FOOD AND FEFD PItOCESSINO  
nFru itn ro r  e,. pf rn
DO  SUL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROD
P   A    Pdr A   N itTczRA ROADS
J        rf.i$/  n-agu9 agr1/Pg  -  STATE 80UNDARIES;
,r   *S   zy  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~< ( >       '-*-. ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERN  TlONAL RoLIOOARIES   7.
$ U R U G U A Y /|~~~~ 0                  100  ,200  300  40|0  5010  60O0  700  8030
f     qJ/ /                     O     100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  200  300  _ 0 _00
L S   5^  fChui  VoSoo,,raa   R   pRnA    I ILS
0?      4I,Su4GO-NUSRE CRDT RJETT



