CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1317 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Agro-Industries Credit Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 22, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 1976, between FEDERATIVE RE-
PUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATION-
AL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) Banco Central do Brasil (hereinafter called Banco
Central) is willing to carry out said Project and the Borrower will
make available to Banco Central the proceeds of the Loan;
(C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and Banco Central;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guaran-
tee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
the words "and the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"the Loan Agreement" wherever they occur in Sections 6.06 and
10.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) the term "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Banco Central of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes the Schedule
to the Project Agreement;
(b) the term "Participating Banks" means the State Develop-
ment Banks of Minas Gerais, EspTrito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Rio
Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sa"o Paulo, Paranf, the State Banks
of Goifs and Mato Grosso, Banco Regional de Brasflia, S.A., Banco
Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul, Banco do Brasil, S.A.


﻿-3--
and any private investment institution approved by Banco Central
to participate in carrying out the Project in accordancc    '
the Lending Policies;
(c) the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the
agreements between Banco Central and a Participating Bank to re-
imburse such Participating Bank for sub-loans made under the Proj-
ect, and such term includes (i) any amendments thereto made with
the approval of the Bank and (ii) any subsidiary loan agreement
as defined in Section 1.02 (c) of the First Loan Agreement* and
as amended for purposes of this Loan Agreement; and the term
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for in a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
0         (d) the term "Project Account" means the account established
by Banco Central pursuant to Section 2.01 (c) of the First Project
Agreement;
(e) the term "Project Team" means the team referred to in
Section 2.08 of the First Project Agreement;**
(f) the term "Lending Policies" means the policies set forth
in the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amende
from time to time;
*    "First Loan Agreement" means the agreement between Federa-
tive Republic of Brazil and the Bank dated August 1, 1973.
**   "First Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Banco Central dated August 1, 1973.


﻿(g) the term "Lending Program" means collectively the sub-
loans to be made by the Participating Banks under the Project;
(h) the term "beneficiary" means any person, natural or juri-
dinal, which is a recipient of a sub-loan under the Lending Program;
(i) the term "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
m,de by a Participating Bank to a beneficiary for an agro-industrial
project and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of a
Subsidiary Loan;
(j) the term "agro-industrial project" means a project con-
sisting of the construction, rehabilitation or exDansion of facili-
ties for meat, grain, or milk processing, or for such other agro-O
industrial activities as shall have been approved by the Bank, to
be carried out by a beneficiary and to be partially financed by
a sub-loan;
(k) the term "Project Area" means the area comprising the
States of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Paranl, Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Minas Gerais, Gois and Mato
Grosso, and the Federal District of the Borrower; and
(1) the term "cruzeiro" means the currency unit of the Bor-
rover.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-three
million dollars ($83,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) for the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions referred to in Section
2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on te
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.01. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the
L,_-an in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
' edule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be car-
ried out with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the
Lending Policies and in conformity with appropriate technical, ad-
ministrative, economic and financial practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available the proceeds
of the Loan to Banco Central for purposes of the Project on the
* same financial terms and conditions as such proceeds are lent by
the Bank to the Borrower.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the short- and
medium-term finncing in cruzeiros necessary to complement the
Lending Program ih order to achieve the benefits contemplated
thereunder shall be made available to beneficiaries under the
Lending Program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower covenants that it will not take or
permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or
any agency of any political subdivision to take any action which
would prevent or interfere with the performance by Banco Central
of any of the covenants, agreements and obligations of Banco


﻿-8-
Central in the Project Agreement and in any of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements contained, or with the performance by any Participating
Bank of any of the covenants, agreements and obligations of any
Participating Bank in any Subsidiary Loan Agreement contained, and
will take or cause to be taken all action which shall be necessary
to enable Banco Central and the Participating Banks to perform such
covenants, agreements and obligations.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribu-
tion of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally
and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the cre-
ation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien cre-
ated on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivi.-
sions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank se-
cure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 10 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date,
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (a) follow such sanitary
regulation policies with respect to meat processing as may be
necessary to ensure access of meat products to major export mar-
kets; (b) modify its sanitary regulations from time to time as
may be required for this purpose; and (c) ensure that the milk
processing plants inrcded in the Project comply with the milk
processing regulatiour if the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Borrower or any of its political subdivisions or
agencies or any agency of any political subdivision of the Borrower
shall have adopted measures which would adversely and materially
affect the economic benefits to be obtained from the Project.
(b) Any obligation of Banco Central under the Project Agree-
ment or any Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall not have been complied
with.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date: Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of Banco Central have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary action of Banco Central and the Borrower;
(b) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central; and
(c) at least one Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been
executed and delivered.


﻿-13-
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorIzed or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Banco
Central, and is legally binding upon Banco Central in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals (in-
cluding such acts, consents and approvals as are required for
the purpose of making available the proceeds of the Loan to
Banco Central) to be performed or given by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any po-
litical subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable
the Borrower and Banco Central, respectively, to perform all of
the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the
Loan Agreement and of Banco Central in the Project Agreement
contained, together with all necessary powers and rights in con-
nection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date December 21, 1976 is hereby specified
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Edificio Banco do Brasil S.A.
Setor Bancario Sul
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:
MINIFAZ
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
BANCENTRAL
Brasilia, Brazil


﻿-15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ G.K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Meat processing            38,000,000    )
agro-industrial                         )
projects                                )
(2) Grain processing           16,000,000    )   40%* of payments
agro-industrial                         )    made to finance
projects                                )    sub-loans for
)    projects
(3) Milk processing             8,ooo,ooo    )
agro-industrial                         )
projects                                )
% representing the estimated foreign expenditure component.


﻿-1T-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Miscellaneous                            )
agro-industrial                         )
projects:                               )
(a) food and feed         11,000,000    )    40%* of payments
processing, in-                    )    made to finance
cluding cold                       )    sub-loans for
storage plants                     )    such projects
(b) manufacturing         10,000,000    )
of agricul-                        )
tural inputs                       )
TOTAL      83,000,000
% representing the estimated foreign expenditure component.


﻿- 18
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in
respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures made prior to the execution and delivery of
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement in respect of any portion of the Loan
to be lent thereunder;
(c) payments made by Banco Central to finance the first sub-
loan made by a Participating Bank which did not participate in the
First Project,* unless such sub-loan shall have been approved by
the Bank;
(d) payments made by Banco Central to a Participating Bank
to finance a sub-loan which by itself or together with any other
sub-loan made to the same beneficiary and not repaid shall exceed
the equivalent of $5,000,000, or of $3,000,000 if the beneficiary
is engaged in manufacturing agricultural inputs, unless such sub-
loan shall have been approved by the Bank; and
(e) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Bor-
rover or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply there-
of.
*    For purposes of this sub-paragraph the term "First Project"
means the Agro-Industries Credit Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank dated August 1, 1973.


﻿-19-
3.   The allocation of an amount of the Loan under any Category
in paragraph 1 above may be modified by a further agreement be-
tween the Borrower acting through Banco Central and the Bank.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will provide sub-loans to (a) agricultural pro-
cessing industries producing food and feed products, food pack-
ing and tanning industries and cold storage plants, and (b) to
industries processing fertilizer and manufacturing agricultural
inputs, including small-farm equipment and implements, in the
Project Area for new plants and for the rehabilitation, moderniza-
tion and expansion of existing plants, all for the purpose of in-
creasing L.ports, and providing import substitutes.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (exprensed in dollars)*
February 1, 1981                                   2,305,000
August 1, 1981                                     2,405,000
February 1, 1982                                   2,515,000
August 1, 1982                                     2,630,000
February 1, 1983                                   2,740,000
August 1, 1983                                     2,865,000
February 1, 1984                                   2,990,000
August 1, 1984                                     3,125,000
February 1, 1985                                   3,260,000
August 1, 1985                                     3,405,000
February 1, 19A6                                   3,555,000
August 1, 1986                                     3,715,000
February 1, 1987                                   3,875,000
August 1, 1987                                     4,050,000
February 1, 1988                                   4,230,000
August 1, 1988                                     4,415,000
February 1, 1989                                   4.,610,000
August 1, 1989                                     4,815,000
February 1, 1990                                   5,030,000
August 1, 1990                                     5,250,000
February 1, 1991                                   5,485,000
August 1, 1991                                     5,730,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalentE
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiuMs pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
aeneral Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                           1.75%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                           3.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                           6.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                     7.65%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                           8.85%


