7746
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1317 BrZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Agro-Industries Credlt lioject)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
Dated September 22, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL (hereinafter called Banco
Central).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-three million
dollars ($83,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Banco Central agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available to Banco
Central the proceeds of the Loan; and
WHEREAS Banco Central, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Banco Central shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement in accordance with
the Lending Policies with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, economic,
banking and financial practices and shall be responsible for the
overall execution and supervision of the Project.
(b) Banco Central shall keep the Project Account and credit
to such account (i) the proceeds of the Loan made available to
Banco Central by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement, and (ii) such other funds as the Borrower shall
provide or cause to be provided to Banco Central for purposes
of the Project pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.
(c) Banco Central shall relend the proceeds of the Project
Account to the Participating Banks under Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments on the terms and conditions specified in Part I of the
Schedule to this Agreement, or on such other terms and conditions
as the Bank shall agree.
(d) Banco Central shall require the Participating Banks to
lend the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans to beneficiaries on the
terms and conditions specified in Part II of the Schedule to this
Agreement, or on such other terms and conditions as the Bank shall
agree.


﻿-4-
(e) Banco Central shall require the Participating Bank: to
operate, in respect of the Project, in accordance with appropriate
business, technical, economic, banking and financial practices,
under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 2.02. (a) The Bank and Banco Central shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, each of them shall furnish to the other all such in-
formation as it shall reasonably request with regard to the general
status of the Project.
(b) The Bank and Banco Central shall from time to time ex-
change views through their representatives with regard to the per-
formance by Banco Central of its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Project Account, and in respect of
the Project, the administration, operations and financial condition
of Banco Central and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan. Banco Central shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan or the performance by Banco
Central of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements.
(c) Banco Central shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of Banco Central in respect of the Project, shall en-
able the Bank's representatives to inspect any relevant records
and documents in respect of the Project; and shall furnish or


﻿-5-
cause to be furnished to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the performance of Banco
Central of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, tie expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Project, the Project Account, and in respect of the Project, the
administration, operations and financial condition of Banco Central.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banco
Central shall cause the Project Account to be audited annually by
an independent auditing unit of the Conselho Monetario Nacional
and shall, promptly after the audit and not later than four months
after the close of Banco Central's fiscal year, transmit to the
Bank certified copies of such audit, together with a certified copy
of the auditor's report, including a description of the audit pro-
cedures.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banco
Central shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, assigning, abrogating or waiving any provision
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Banco Central shall exercise its
rights and fulfill its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
the Bank and Banco Central.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provi-
sions set forth in paragraph 14 of the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿I
-6-
Section 2.06. (a) In order to assist Banco Central in the
execution of the Project, Banco Central shall maintain the Project
Team, which shall be responsible for the proper application of the
Lending Criteria and shall review and comment on all sub-loans
which are subject to prior approval of the Bank under the terms of
this Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
(b) Banco Central:
(i)       shall consult with the Bank on the qualifications
and the terms of reference of new members of the
Project Team; and
(ii)      shall take such steps as shall be required (A) to
train at least two members of the Project Team in
food technology and the economics of financing
agro-industrial programs, and (B) to contract the
services of three qualified and experienced ex-
perts in food technology, industrial management
and marketing.
Section 2.07. Banco Central shall contract the services of
consultants as and when required to review the technical viabil-
ity of agro-industrial projects.
Section 2.08. Banco Central shall (a) conduct a continuing
review of the agro-industries included in the Project; (b) col-
lect data to determine the financial and economic benefits result-
ing from the Project for use as the basis for further investments
in agro-industries; and (c) make periodic supervision visits to
Participating Banks and beneficiaries to review their operations
under the Project.


﻿-T-
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effective Date. If pursuant to Section 12.04 of the Gener-
al Conditions, the Loan Agreement shall be terminated, this Agree-
ment and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall also ter-
minate and the Bank shall promptly notify Banco Central thereof.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and the obligations of the par-
ties hereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement shall ter-
minate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise,
any right, power, or remedy accruing to either party under this
Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power or
remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence
in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect of
any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair
any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other
or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cablegram or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified,
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Banco Central:
Edificio Banco do Brasil S.A.
Setor Bancario Sul
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:
BANCENTRAL
Brazil
Section 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banco Central may be taken or executed by
a     the President of Banco Central or such other person or persons as
the President shall designate in writing.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names and delivered in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ G.K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL
By /s/ Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Lending Policies
Part I:   Subsidiary Loan Terms and Conditions:
Equity Participations
1.   In cases where the Participating Bank has an equity in-
terest in the proposed beneficiary, arrangements satis-
factory to Banco Central will be made for an independent
appraisal of the proposed sub-loan.
2.   Loan funds will not be made available to any Partici-
pating Bank if:
(a) the aggregate of the Participating Bank's lending
to, and equity participation in, any single bene-
ficiary exceeds either of the following:
(i)       25% of the Participating Bank's net worth,
i.e., paid-up capital plus free reserves; or
(ii)      50% of the total assets of the beneficiary;
(these limitations will not apply to short-term financing
of seasonal working capital needs), or
(b) the equity investment of the Participating Bank in
the beneficiary exceeds 20% of the capital of the
Participating Bank.


﻿- 12 -
Reserves
3. Participating Banks will establish and maintain reserves
by annual appropriations and at a level deemed appropriate
by Banco Central.
Auditing
1. Participating Banks, excluding Banco do Brasil, S.A. will
be subject to regular examination by external auditors
acceptable to the Bank in respect of all their activities,
and a signed copy of the auditors' report, together with
certified copies of annual accounts, will be forwarded
to the Bank, within four months of the end of each fiscal
year. In the course of the examination, the auditors
will make a specific review of Project accounts and will
carry out spot checks of individual beneficiaries to
ensure that Project conditions are being complied with.
The auditors' reports will describe the review and checks
undertaken.
5. In the case of Banco do Brasil, S.A. the following re-
quirements on accounts and auditing will apply: Banco
do Brasil, S.A. will maintain separate accounts at its
head office for operations under the Lending Program,
including disbursement documents for each sub-loan, and
will be subject to a regular annual audit on Project
accounts, including accounts of branches involved in the
Project, by Banco Central. A signed copy of Banco


﻿- 13 -
Central auditors' report, together with certified copies
of the annual Banco do Brasil, S.A. Project accounts,
will be forwarded to the Bank with four months of the
end of Banco do Brasil, S.A.'s fiscal year. In the
course of their examination, the Banco Central auditors
will carry out spot checks of beneficiaries to ensure
that Project conditions are being complied with. The
auditors' report will describe the review and checks
undertaken.
Interest Rates and Repayment Period
6. The outstanding principal amount of the Subsidiary Loans
will bear interest at a rate of not less than 1/2% and
not more than 2-1/2% per annum plus adjustment based on
the National Treasury Bond (ORTN) price, as calculated
in accordance with the regulations in force on the date
of this Agreement.
7. Subsidiary Loans will be repayable by Participating
Banks to Banco Central in accordance with amortization
schedules substantially conforming to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to the sub-loans
financed under the respective Subsidiary Loan.
Financing by the Participating Banks
8. Participating Banks will be required to: (a) provide
from their own resources not less than 10% of the total


﻿amount of sub-loans made; and (b) meet short-term fi-
nancing requirements for working capital which cannot
be met by the beneficiaries or through commercial banks.
Part II: Sub-Loan Terms and Conditions:
9.   Sub-loans will be limited to 80% of the investment cost
(including training and permanent working capital not
exceeding 30% of the investment cost and excluding the
cost of land) of agro-industrial projects and will be
made for a term of up to 10 years, including a maximum
of three years of grace. The outstanding principal amount
of sub-loans will bear interest at a rate of 3% per annum
in Region I* and of 5% per annum in Region II*, plus
adjustment based on the ORTN price, as calculated in ac-
cordance with the regulations in force on the date of
this Agreement. Beneficiaries will pay a commitment fee
of 1/2% on undisbursed sub-loan balances.
10. Participating Banks will require a feasibility study
for any proposed sub-loan. Any applicants considered by
the Participating Banks as not having adequate expertise
to prepare their own studies will be required to engage
consultants to prepare them. Participating Banks will
prepare a list of approved consultants for use by indi-
vidual applicants.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the States of the Borrower
included in the Project Area are grouped in two categories as
follows: Region I includes the States of Epirito Santo, Mato
Grosso, Santa Catarina, Goifs and the area north of the 18th
parallel in the State of Minas Gerais; and Region II includes
the area south of the 18th parallel in the State of Minas
Gerais, all other States in the Project Area, and the Federal
District of the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
11. Feasibility studies will cover the technical, organi-
zational, financial and commercial aspects of each agro-
industrial project for which a sub-loan is requested.
Particular attention will be paid to the following:
(a) inclusion of financial statements certified by
auditors approved by the Participating Banks in
the case of an agro-industrial project involving
(i) the rehabilitation or extension of existing
enterprises and (ii) investments in an amount ex-
ceeding $1,000,000 equivalent;
(b) compliance with all relevant regulations, es-
pecially environmental protection standards and,
in the case of meat and milk processing, federal
hygiene regulations;
(c) provision for future plant expansion in all meat
processing industries;
(d) inclusion of a component for, and appropriate
training of, technical personnel in each agro-
industrial project;
(e) presentation of cash flow projections and calcu-
lation of the financial rate of return;
(f) adequacy of the supply of raw materials and demand
for final products, both domestic and foreign, in-
cluding supply and demand projections;


﻿- 16 -
(g) detailed justification for the inclusion of re-
fining facilities in any oil seed processing
project; and
(h) inclusion of a filtration or pondage system for
treatment of effluent in meat processing plants.
12. Appraisal of an agro-industrial project by a Participat-
ing Bank will cover the same aspects as those in-
cluded in the feasibility studies. In addition the
following points will be given particular emphasis:
(a) managerial competence of the proposed beneficiary;
(b) financial condition of the proposed beneficiary,
including the adequacy of its debt/equity ratio
after incurrence of the proDosed debt;
(c) availability of sufficient working capital for the
proposed beneficiary's present and future operations;
and
(d) overall supply and demand situation for the industry
taking into consideration present and planned
capacity within the Participating Bank's respective
sphere of operations and, to the extent feasible,
in other regions as well.
13. Participating Banks will hire consultants to evaluate
the technical aspects of agro-industrial projects
involving expertise not found among their staff.


﻿- 17 -
14. Beneficiaries will procure goods and services for agro-
industrial projects with due regard to efficiency,
economy and sound business practice. Procurement proce-
dures will be decided upon by the beneficiaries with
the concurrence of the Participating Banks. As a general
rule, Participating Banks will require that beneficiaries
obtain quotations from at least three contractors or
suppliers and furnish them to the Participating Banks
for review of quality, suitability, and price of goods.
15. Participating Banks will make payments for goods and
services directly to suppliers except in extraordinary
circumstances.
16. Participating Banks will make quarterly inspection
visits to beneficiaries during the execution period of
agro-industrial projects and annual visits during the
remainder of the life of the respective sub-loans.
17. Participating Banks will ensure that all meat and milk
plants financed under sub-loans are inspected regularly
by the Borrower's Departamento Nacional de Inspeqao de
Produtos de Origem Animal.
18. All oil seed processing plants will contain the adoption
of solvent extraction techniques.


