          EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
                     OF
THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTASSESSMENT REPORT
                     FOR
 REHABILITATION OF AFSjN-ELBiSTAN A THERMAL
                POWER PLANT




              (09 December 2005)


ELECTRICITY GENERATION                                       REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMALPOWER
CORPORATION INC.                                   PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
       Introduction...........................................................................................................   -3

       Project Description.................................................................................................
       1.1    Major Conclusions......................................................................................            4
       PurposeOf The Project..........................................................................................           4
                                                                                                                                 5
       3.1
       Location Of The Project .........................................................................................
              Importance and Necessity of the Project ....................................................                       5
       Baseline Environmental Characteristics of the ProjectArea ...................................                             7
                                                                                                                                 7
       5.1                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                 7

              Water Resources and Usage......................................................................
              Soil Characteristics.....................................................................................
              Surface and Ground waters........................................................................
              Geology and Geomorphological Characteristics.........................................
              MeteorologicalCharacteristics....................................................................
       5.2
       5.3
       5.4                                                                                                                       8
       5.5                                                                                                                       8
       5.6    Flora and Fauna.........................................................................................           9
       5.7
       Baseline Environmental Studies Conducted in the Region.....................................
              Lignite Sources...........................................................................................         9
                                                                                                                                 9
       6.1    Surface and Groundwater Sampling Studies ............................................
              Noise Measurements................................................................................                10
       6.2                                                                                                                      10
       6.3    Baseline Air Quality Survey ......................................................................
              Baseline Soil Contamination Survey.........................................................                       11
       6.4                                                                                                                      11

  Emissions....................................................................................................................
       Construction Period Environmental Impacts and the Mitigation Measures
                                                                                                                                14
       7.1    Water and Wastewater .............................................................................                14
       7.2    Solid Wastes ............................................................................................         15
       7.3    Noise........................................................................................................     16
       7.4    Health and Safety.....................................................................................            16
  8
  Mitigation Measures.....................................................................................................
       Environmental Impacts during Operation Phase of the Project and Necessary
                                                                                                                                17
       8.1                                                                                                                      17

              Air Quality Impacts and Air Quality Dispersion Modeling ..........................
              Wastewater ..............................................................................................
              Water Consumption..................................................................................
       8.2                                                                                                                      17
       8.3                                                                                                                      17
      8.4     Ash and Gypsum Disposal .......................................................................                   19
      8.5     Other Solid Wastes...................................................................................             20
      8.6     Soil Acidification ....................................................................................... 20
              Noise........................................................................................................ 20
      8.7
      8.8
       Products...............................................................................................................
              Impacts of the Project on Existing Agricultural Areas and Agricultural

      8.9     Impacts on Groundwater and Surface Water and Mitigation Measures.....21                                           21

      8.10                                                                                                                      21
 9    Environmental Management Plant (EMP) ............................................................
              Occupational Health and Safety ...............................................................
                                                                                                                                22
  10     Public Meetings and Disclosure ....................................................................... 22
 Benefit Analysis ...........................................................................................................
  11     Impactsof the Project on Socio-Economic Environmentand Environmental Cost
                                                                                                                                23
 12      ProjectAlternatives ..........................................................................................         24
 13      Conclusion....................................................................................................... 24




                                                             2


 ELECTRICITYGENERATION                      REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                      PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT




 1           Introduction

Within the framework of the "Preparation of Energy Liberalization Project" assisted by the
World Bank, Republic of Turkey has applied a portion of a grant provided from Japan
 Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) fund for the procurement of the
consultant services for the EIA study of the "Rehabilitation of Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal
 Power Plant and Construction of Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) Unit". The International
 Bank for Reconstructionand Development (IBRD) is the administrator of this grant.

Concerning the environmental assessment of the rehabilitation project, the project is
classified as "Category A" by the World Bank and the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) procedure was applied. The EIA study and the procedure has also been carried out
according to both requirements of the current EIA Regulation of Turkish Government
(Official Gazette, No: 25318, 16.12.2003) and the EnvironmentalAssessment Policies and
 Procedures of the World Bank (OP/BP/GP 4.01 EnvironmentalAssessment). According to
Turkish EIA Regulation, this project is included in Article 25 b that states extra ordinary
conditions for EIA procedure to be applied to the projects which are not subjected to EIA
Regulation officially, but subjected to international funding mechanisms. Therefore, a
unique EIA Report had been prepared for both Turkish Legislation and World Bank
Policies.

The chief objectives of the EIA were to: (a) determine if, based upon estimates of air
quality impacts, the overall program for rehabilitation and FGD installation for the Afgin-
Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant could be sequenced in time: first with a rehabilitation
project (Phase I) to be followed by an FGD installation project (Phase II), if so, (b)
determine impacts of the rehabilitation project and FGD project and necessary mitigating
actions. To determine if the FGD project (Phase II) could be derogated, the EIA work
scope included a comparative analysis of air quality with respect to Turkish ambient air
quality standards for SO2from current AETPP operation and resulting air quality after the
Phase I rehabilitation is completed. Thus, the EIA served as a decision document for
Turkish government officialsto determine if the FGD investment was an immediate priority
or could be developed at a later date.

This EIA study has been conducted by CINAR Muhendislik Mugavirlik ve Proje Hizmetleri
Ltd. $ti. and KEMA International B.V. and this report has been prepared in accordance
with the contract with EUA$.

Aim of the EIA study is to meet both the requirements of the Turkish EIA Legislation and
World Bank for a "Category A Environmental Assessment study (OP 4.01 Annex B
Content of an EA CategoryA Report). For this purpose, EIA has been prepared according
to the special EIA format regarding the requirements of the World Bank and Turkish
Ministry of Environmentand Forestry

This EIA was prepared using both field surveys and desktop studies (literature survey,
calculation, assessments and modeling).


                                            3

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                          REHABILITATIONOFAFqIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                        PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


1.1          Major Conclusions

The EIA procedureyielded the following major conclusions:

0   The rehabilitation of the ESPs on the main stack and the Bruden stacks is essential to
    addressthe dust and particulate emission problems.

    The AEAPP operating at full load after rehabilitatiordupgradewithout an FGD unit will
    meet both the long-term and short-term air quality standards for SOz.

e   The AEAPP operating at full load will not meet Turkish SOz emission standards.
    (However, in evaluating the EIA, the Ministryof Environmentand Forestry (MOEF) has
    recognized that plant performance after rehabilitation does not affect compliance with
    Turkish air quality standards for SOz in the plant vicinity and therefore, has confirmed
    that it will provide a derogation period in which to install an FGD in accordancewith an
    Amendment to the "Regulation on Control of Air Pollution Caused by Industrial
    Sources" (RCAP)to be issued shortly.

0   The rehabilitation of the plant will improve the plant`s environmental compliance with
    Turkish dust emission standards. Dust emissions have been identified, during public
    consultations as a major environmental issue among localgroups.

2            Project Description

Afgin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant (AEATPP) is located between Cogulhan and
Alemdar Towns of Afgin District of Kahramanmarag Province. It was established by TEK
during 1984-1987. It has 1355 MWe capacity with its four units and it is one of the most
important power plants in Turkey.

AEATPP is a conventional thermal power plant utilizing low quality lignite from Kiglakoy
Region. Lignite is sent to the storage area by conveyors having a capacity of 1 million
tons. Lignite extracted from the different layers of the mine (having several #efma+
calorific values) is blended here and the lignite that has 1050 kcal/kg average value is
conveyed to the power plant. The power plant consumes 3000 ton fuel per hour.

Steam temperature and pressure in the boiler are 535OC and 197.5 kg/cmz respectively
and each boiler produces 1020 ton/h steam. Voltage is 21 kV at the outlet of generator
that is then amplified to 380 kV in order to connect energyto the grid.

Process water is supplied from Ceyhan River Spring in Elbistan. Ash produced h is
conveyed back to open mining site by ash conveyors and filled to the vacancies formed by
extractionof coal. These areas are then covered by topsoil and landscaped.

The plant was designed to burn the low quality lignite with high moisture easily without
using supplementary fuel. The system developed for such lignites is to first dry the lignite
to increase its calorific value.

AEATPP is designed for an annual electricity production of 8.800.000.000 kWh. However,
there have been a loss/decrease in capacity and reliability of the plant due to equipment
wear and some unscheduled shutdowns. Average efficiency has decreased below the

                                               4

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                         REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATIONINC.                        PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


design efficiency. Therefore, General Directorate of Electricity Generation Corporation
(EUAS) decided that the rehabilitationof the plant is required.

Afgin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation and FGD Project will be sequenced
into two phases: the first phase includes rehabilitation of the plant and the second phase
will be constructionof a Flue Gas Desulfurization(FGD) plant.

The first phase of the program to be financed by the World Bank is rehabilitation of
AEATPP. It will include maintenance, repair, rehabilitation and modernization of mainly
boiler, turbine and electrostatic precipitators. In the second phase, the FGD unit to be
retrofitted to AEATPP will be similar to FGD unit in the AEBTPP, and based on wet
limestoneprocess.

3             Purpose Of The Project

    ..The aims of the World Bank project for AEATPP are as follows:

         Improvementof plant reliability/availability,
    ..   Improvementof the efficiency of the plant,

         Extensionof the operating life of the plant, and

         Reductionof dust emission levels to fulfill Turkish EnvironmentalRegulations.

3.1          Importance and Necessity of the Project

The energy-environment review carried out by the World Bank and the Government of
Turkey (GOT)concluded that rehabilitation of existing power plants is economically and
environmentally justified. The GOT has identified rehabilitation of all existing thermal
power plants and retrofitting FGD units during the next five years as a high priority of its
energy strategy. Afgin-Elbistan A Power Plant is at the top of the rehabilitation list
because it has experienced the most significant deterioration in its performance and
reliability. Coupled with the need to improve its environmental performance, rehabilitation
is the most cost effective option.

The GOT has also recognized that retrofitting FGD systems on all their thermal power
stations is required both to improve environmental performance in the energy sector and
as one of the conditions of the EU Acquis for the energy sector.

The limit values for SOn emissions given in the Regulation on Industrial Air Pollution
Control cannot be achieved in some of the existing thermal power plants and the
construction of FGD system is required. In spite of this requirement, these thermal power
plants, including Afgin-Elbistan A Power Plant, could not be retrofitted with the FGD
system because of the substantial investment requirements. These plants are very
important to provide the security of energy supply and they are in operation although the
requirementsof the EnvironmentalLegislationcan not be met



Therefore, the derogation for a reasonabletransition period is required to make necessary
investments. As it is known, Turkey is a candidate country for EU membership and the
                                               5

 ELECTRICITYGENERATION                       REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATIONINC.                         PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


studies have been carried out for the harmonization of EU environmental legislation
 including the EU Large Combustion Plants (LCP) Directive. It is expected that the EU will
grant derogations for its' existing thermal power plants, since the EU has provided such
derogationsfor both its' newer members such as Poland and for candidate members such
as Romania


Within this context, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR) have been
 informed about the legislative situation of these thermal power plants to achieve the
emission limit values specified in the Regulation on Industrial Air Pollution Control and
 necessity of the derogation providing a transition period for PM and SOzemissions up to
2010 and 2015, respectively. MENR has requested from the Ministry of Environment and
 Forestry (MoEF) provision of derogation for a transition period to achieve the SO2
emission limit values for the existing lignite-fired power plants and the undersecretary
level meetings have been carried out. Within the high-level negotiations, MENR and
MoEF agreed on the importance of the derogation. MENR has recently received an official
letter from MoEF related to the draft derogation item for providing the 5 year-transition
period to meet the emission limit values on the condition that to achive the air quality
standards given in the Regulation on Protection of Air Quality.. Within this framework, the
ammndment of the Regulation covering the derogation is expected. In #is case of
obtaining the derogation, it will be possible to realize the rehabilitation of Af9in-Elbistan A
Power Plant without the construction of FGD plant at the first stage and to construct the
FGD system on the second stage at the point in time specified in the derogation.


3.1.1        Improvement of Environmental Performance
The Turkish Air Quality Legislation could be summarized in two different Regulations such
as Regulation on Air Quality Protection which states the short term and long term ground
level concentration limits to be observed in a defined impact area and secondly The
Regulation on Industrial Air Pollution Control that defines the limits for stack gas
emissionsfor various industries. Inthis section the focus will be emissions levels specified
in the above Regulation.

The main air pollutants of the power plant, which require further control, are particulates
and sulfur dioxide (SO2). NOx-emissions are in the 400-500 mg/Nm3 range, which is in
compliancewith the Turkish Environmental Regulations.

Particulates from the Bruden filters are in the 1,200-8,000 mg/Nm3 range while the
electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) downstream of the boiler have similar performance (420
mg/Nm3 to 6,000 mg/Nm3) which is above the current regulatory limit value of 100
mg/Nm3.Bruden (vapor) filters are used to separate vapour and coal dust. The moisture
content in the coal is evaporated by flue gas heating process in the mills. After mills, 1/3of
coal dust together with 2/3 of gas leaving mills goes to the bruden filters where coal dust
is collected and fed to the boiler and steam is exhausted to the atmosphere by vapor fans.

SO2 is not controlled resulting in stack emission levels of 2,000 to 15,000 mg/Nm3
                                              6

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                         REHABILITATION OFAFslN-ELBISTAN A THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                        PLANTAND CONSTRUCTION OF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


depending on the sulfur content of the coal where the regulatory stack gas SO2emission
limit value in Turkey is 1000 mg/Nm3.Therefore an FGD unit will be required as part of the
second phase of the program.

Main goals of the project are to improve reliability and efficiency of the AEATPP and
extend life of the plant to ensure security of energy supply and consequently decrease
emissions of the plant below the limits of Regulationon IndustrialAir Pollution Control and
to decrease negative impacts on environment.

The total investment for the rehabilitation project is estimated to be approximately 440
million USD, and the FGD retrofit system is about 220 million USD. Investment costs are
explained in detail in Section IV.2.5.

4             Location Of The Project

Afgin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant is located within the Kahramanmarag Province of
Turkey. Location of AEATPP is 14 km far from Afqin District and 30 km from Elbistan
District. The nearest settlement places to the AEATPP is Cogulhan Town, 500 meters
away from the plant, and Alemdar Town that is about 1 km far from the plant.

AEATPP is located to the 2.5 km east of existing AEBTPP. Location of power plant is 154
km north of KahramanmaragProvince.

Projectwill affect primarily Cogulhan Town, Afgin District, and KahramanmaragProvince.

5            Baseline EnvironmentalCharacteristics of the Project Area

In this section the Baseline environmental characteristic data that were obtained as a
result of literature and field surveys. The baseline environmental measurement results will
be presented in the following sections.

5.1          Meteorological Characteristics

Afgin District is located at the intersectionof Mediterranean, Central Anatolia and Eastern
Anatolia. Although the terrestrial climate dominates, characteristics of these three regions
could be observed in this region. Dry and arid weather dominates in the summer while
cold and snowy weather dominates in the winter. Most of the rains are formed during
spring and autumn.




5.2          Geology and Geomorphological Characteristics

There are no special geological and geomorphologicalfeatures and no negative effect of
the activity on the geology.

5.3          Surface and Ground waters




                                              7

 ELECTRICITY GENERATION                       REHABILITATIONOFAF$IN-ELBISTANA THERMALPOWER
 CORPORATIONINC.                         PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


The Elbistan and Goksun plains are groundwater catchment areas around the project
 area. The direction of groundwaterflow in the projectarea is from northwestand northeast
to south towards Hurman Creek. The largest river in the project area is Hurman Creek.

 5.4         Soil Characteristics

 Soils of the region mainly composed of Alluvial, Colluvial, Brown and Red Brown Soils.
 Most of the soils have heavy, neutral, less alkaline structure and very rich in lime. Soil of
the region has no problem in view of permeabilityand salinity.

Afgin District, where AEATPP is located, is approximately 41YOagricultural fields, 39%
 meadow and pasture lands, 9% forest, 10%others and 1% residentialareas.

AEATPP is located on, alluvial, colluvial and forest soil group and the capability class of
the soil is Class I. Erosion degree is "less erosion".

The soil of the region, where AEATPP is located, has very high lime content and alkaline
structure. Therefore they have low acidificationsensitivity.

The existing soil sample analysis and literature study shows that the soils of the region
and agricultural areas have alkaline character. Therefore, soils of the region show the
ability to neutralize SO2deposition.

It is observed during the site surveys around the AEATPP that fly ash from the power
plant deposits on the ground, especially in Cogulhan Town, which is the nearest
settlement to the power plant. During the public meeting, local farmers stated that the
agricultural products have been affected by the dust emitted from the AEATPP

Farmers of the region interviewed by EIA group experts indicated that there has been a
difference in vegetable productioncompared to before and after commencement of power
plant's activity, also, drying of the plantswas observed. In addition, most of the complaints
were focused on settleable dust problem. These statements are based on farmers own
opinions and observations. However, there is no scientific study or statistical data
justifying complaints or observations.

5.5          Water Resources and Usage

The main water sources of Afgin and Elbistan Districts are Hurman stream, which is a
branch of Ceyhan River, Goksun Stream and Magara Gozu Stream. There has been
irrigated agriculture in the plain side. Hurman stream, passing through the Afgin Plain, is
the most important stream of Afgin District. Ceyhan River springs from the Pinarbagi
Locality, which is located in 3 km east of Elbistan.
The drinking water of Afgin District is supplied from Cobanpinari Spring. This spring is 5
km west of Afgin District and 22 km far from AEATPP. Drinking and potable water source
of Elbistan District is Ceyhan Spring that is southeast of the Elbistan District. The flow rate
of the Ceyhan Spring is 5-7 m3/s.Based on informationfrom Elbistan Municipality,existing
water supply of the Municipalityis 0.35 m3/sand the future demand will be about 0.6 m3/s.
After second phase of the project, AEATPP will require 1.5 m3/swater. Therefore, water
supply of the AEATPP will not have a drawback. The drinking water demands of Cogulhan

                                               8

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                         REHABILITATIONOF AFslN-ELBISTAN A THERMAL POWER
CORPORATIONINC.                        PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


and Alemdar Towns are supplied by drinking water network that uses groundwater
sources.
5.6          Flora and Fauna

The project area is located in the B6 square of Gridding System. "Flora of Turkey and
East Aegean Islands" publication of Davis is the reference document for the detection of
the flora species collected from the region. In addition, the field survey study has been
supported by the review of same publication. Flora inventory prepared as a result of the
land and literature study is given by EIA Report.

Fauna species around the Afgin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant and impact area are
detailed in EIA Report. Family of each species, Turkish name, habitat, IUCN category,
Red Data Book category and whether they are in Bern Convention Appendix-2 (fauna
species strictly protected) or Appendix-3 (protected fauna species) lists are determined
and given in related table. (-) sign indicates that the species are not given in Appendix-2
and Appendix3 of BernAgreement.

Furthermore, publication on official gazette dated 20 July 2005 and numbered 25881 by
the Ministry of Environmentand Forestry, General Directorate of Protection of Nature and
National Parks, "2005-2006 Hunting Period Central Hunting Commission's Decisions"
Annex-1 (wild animals protected by Ministry of Environment and Forestry), Annex-2
(hunting animals protected by Central Hunting Commission), Annex-3 (hunting animals
that are permittedto be hunted at specific times by Central Hunting Commission) lists are
stated at the relatedtables.

During the field surveys it was monitored that because of the operation of the AETPP
fauna species have already been moved to appropriate biotops since there were habitat
losses occurred and the human activity around the power plant has been increased much.
The surrounding of the power plant does not constitute a special living and breeding
habitat for the fauna species. In addition, since the existing power plant is very close to
residential areas, no significant faunal activities were observed. Planned project will not
have an effect of additional habitat loss for the fauna species. By the rehabilitation of
power plant, the ambient air quality will be improved with respect to dust and that would
have a positive affect on the terrestrial fauna.

5.7         Lignite Sources

Afgin-Elbistan lignite reserve located in Kahramanmarag covers an area of almost 100
km2in Afgin and Elbistan Districts.This region has proven ore deposits of 3.4 billion tones.
Reserve is on the economical open mining facility, considering the 3/1 m3/ton
decopage/coal ratio about 1.7 billion tons of this total reserve have operatable capacity.
The reserve under consideration is used as three sectors named Collolar, Kiglakoy and
Afgin sectors. The coal has been used in Afgin-ElbistanThermal Power Plants.

6           Baseline Environmental Studies Conducted in the Region



                                              9

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                        REHABILITATIONOF AFqiN-ELBiSTAN A THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                      PLANTAND CONSTRUCTION OF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


Site surveys have been conducted to determine existing baseline environmental
conditions for Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation Project area and its
close vicinity between 2"dof February and !jth of April 2005. These environmental surveys
covered the noise measurements, surface and groundwater sampling, air quality survey
and soil pollutionsampling.

The scope of the work conducted in this region is the determination of the existing
pollution level of the area. The air quality monitoring was conducted during two 60 day
periods for a total duration of approximately four months while the other sampling and
monitoring works were only conducted kif once. In addition to those studies there were no
other previous baseline studies conducted in the region. Therefore, there were no
previous data showing the environmental situation of the region before the power plant
was put into operation and hence it is not possible to compare the existing situation with
the previous one, so that the exact level of impact of the power plant on the environmental
conditions of the area could not be determined. The findings of the analysis could only be
compared and discussed with the regulations and with each other.

6.1         Noise Measurements

Noise survey was conducted between 4'h and 13'h of February 2005. Purpose of the
survey is to collect the baseline data regarding the background noise levels in the vicinity
of the Af$n-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant. For this purpose 12 hours continuous noise
measurementswere conducted at totally 7 points.

Baseline noise measurement results were compared with the World Bank standards and
standards stated in Turkish Regulation on Assessment and Management of
EnvironmentalNoise.

The Le, values measured around the Afqin Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant were in
compliance with the maximum allowable values given by Turkish Regulation on
Assessment and Management of EnvironmentalNoise and the World Bank Limits.

6.2         Surface and Groundwater Sampling Studies

Water samples were taken from groundwater wells and surface water to determine the
baseline physical and chemical characteristics of the water resources of the Project site
within the context of surface and groundwater quality survey on 15'h of February 2005.

Surface and ground water samples were taken around the Afgin-Elbistan A Thermal
Power Plant at totally 6 points which are expected to be affected from project activities.
Two of the wells were selected around the ash deposit area to determine the
characteristics of the groundwater according to the parameters stated at "Regulation on
HazardousWaste" AnnexlI-A Table.

Samples were analyzed to determine the water classification for pH, DO, Conductivity,
TDS, Total Hardness, COD, BOD, NO3,NOsN, F, CI, CN, Zn, Cu, Fe, SO4,P04-P, Mg,
As. Samples taken from ash deposit areawere also analyzed according to the parameters
stated at the Table of Regulation on Hazardous Waste Control Regulation Annexl I-A.
Quality of the water resources is determined incompliancewith the Regulation on Water
                                             10

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                          REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATIONINC.                         PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


Pollution Control. Most of the parameters for the surface and groundwater samples show
Class 1 and 2 properties.According to the Regulation, Class 1 is the highest quality water
and the Class 2 is the slightly polluted water that are both explained in Section 3.2.9.2 of
EIA Report.

The water samples taken at two boreholes in the ash deposit area were analyzed
according to the Regulationon Turkish Hazardous Waste Control Annex11 A. Parameters
analyzed in ground water samples taken from the ash deposit area are below the limit
values of hazardous waste. So that the existing facilities does not have a negative
influence on the existingwater quality of the surrounding water sources.

6.3          Baseline Soil Contamination Survey

Baseline soil contamination survey was conducted in February 2005. The focus of this
survey was the collection and subsequent analysis of the soil samples from the thermal
power plant and its surrounding to determine the baseline soil conditions. Totally 10 soil
samples were taken for the soil efficiency analysis (texture, salinity, pH, lime, phosphorus,
potassium, organic matter), cation exchange capacity and chemical analysis (TOC, Total
Nitrogen). 2 of the soil samples were taken from the ash deposit area to be analyzed
according to the parameters stated at Regulation on Hazardous Waste Control Annex 11
A.


6.4          Baseline Air Quality Survey

Baseline air quality measurements were conducted for Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal Power
Plant rehabilitation area and its close vicinity between 2"dof Februaryand 5'h of April 2005
and between 18'hof May and 17'hof July 2005 to establish current levels of air quality and
to calibrate the air quality model that would subsequently be used to estimate the change
of air quality due to the activities for the Afgin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant
Rehabilitation Project. Measurements were conducted at 10 locations. 2 measurements
were performed at the dominant wind directions on the nearest sensitive receptors to the
Af$n-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant along the long term dominant wind directions, and
remaining 8 measurements were conducted at locations in project impact area as
specified in Turkish Regulation on Industrial Air Pollution Control (Item 40 a-I). During
each monitoring period, at each location, three samples were taken, each representing a
twenty day average.

The overall measurementresultsfor 120 days were compared with the long term (LT) limit
values stated in the Regulationon Air Quality Protectionarticle 6. The definition of ST limit
value is stated in the regulation as the value that should not be exceeded by the 95% of
all the measurement results of the daily average values. Since only twenty day averages
were available with the diffusion tube measurements, the ST or daily average values were
estimated by air quality modeling. The ISCST3 model developed by the USEPA and
which has been adopted as the international standard for multiple point sources modeling
of air quality impacts from tall stack emissions was used to estimate ST values of air

                                               11

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                         REHABILITATIONOFAFqIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                        PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


quality parameters(dust, SO2,and NOx). The definition of LT is stated in the regulation as
the value that should not be exceeded by the arithmetical average of all measurement
 results. The ST limit values stated in the regulation are the daily average values that
should not be exceeded 95 per cent of the year.

The pollutants that were the focus of this air quality survey are PMlo, HF, HCI, NOx and
SOz.Fractionsof the suspended particulate matters with aerodynamicdiameters less than
 10 micrometers (PMlo) are of main concern because of their strong correlation with
human health effects. In this survey, existing ambient PMlo levels were surveyed at ten
sampling points in the vicinity of the existing Afqin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant. On the
other hand settleable particulate matter having higher aerodynamic diameters, have
importance for visual nuisance and plant life since these particulates cover the leaves of
the plants and inhibits the photosynthesis.

Particulate matter (PM), NO, and SO2 are three of the primary air pollutants of
combustion. Therefore at ten sampling points in the vicinity of the existing Afqin-Elbistan A
Thermal Power Plant site also were selected for NOx and SO2 analysis. The passive
diffusion tubes were used for these pollutants. Ten sampling points in the vicinity of the
existing Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant site were also selected for HF and HCI
analysis.

The PMlo measurement period was continuous at each location for 6 days.

In addition the existence of particulate matter problem around Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal
Power Plant is obvious with the field observations. The particulate matter is classified as
settleable (large particulates) and PMlo. In this project usually settleable large particulate
problem is significant which is also supported by the field observations. The public
complaints about the particulate problem is also very much. The settleable dust problem
should be solved by the installation of appropriate control mechanismssuch as ESPs. The
measurementswere based on the measurement of PMlo since it has a health hazard risk.
This measurement results should be accepted as a referencefor future.

Measured nitrogenoxide concentrationswere below the long term limit values.

SO2 was first measured at 10 sampling points around Afgin-Elbistan A Thermal Power
Plant between 2ndof February and 5'h of April 2005. Second phase SO2 measurement
was conducted at the same sampling points around Afsin-ElbistanA Thermal Power Plant
between 18'h of May and 17'h of July 2005. Slight decrease was observed in SO2
concentrations during the last period measurements. Afsin Elbistan A Thermal Power
Plant was not operated between 3rdand 13'h of July 2005 according to the capacity report
which may explain the difference.

As a result of the analysis conducted, the results of the ambient SO2 measurements
indicate that the Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant as it currently operates (at reduced
capacity) and after it will be rehabilitated and operated at full capacity are in compliance
with the Turkish ST and LT air quality standards. First phase air quality measurements
conducted during the winter period (February, March and early April), second phase air
quality measurements conducted during spring-summer period (May, June and July) and

                                              12

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                        REHABILITATION OF AFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                      PLANTAND CONSTRUCTION OF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


the results of continuous SO2 measurement station of EUAS reflecting reduced capacity
operation of the plant show that both the short term and long term SO2concentrations are
in compliance with the regulation. Furthermore, the modeling results for the plant
operating at full capacity after rehabilitation will also be in compliance with Turkish air
quality regulations.




                                             13

ELECTRICITY GENERATION                         REHABILITATIONOF AFSIN-ELBISTAN A THERMALPOWER
CORPORATIONINC.                         PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


Construction PeriodEnvironmental Impacts and the MitigationMeasuresEmissions

The rehabilitation project (first phase) will involve removal and/or replacement of obsolete
plant components. Land preparation, excavation and construction works will be involved
for the second phaseof the projectfor the foundation of FGD unit. The material excavated
during land preparationwill be used as fill material and the excess material will be carried
to internal storage area by the trucks.

The main source of emissions to the atmosphere during construction is dust. Emissions
during the construction of a building can be associated with land clearing, drilling and
blasting, ground excavation, cut and fill operations and construction of a particular facility
itself. Dust emissions often vary substantially from day to day, depending on the level of
activity, the specific operations, and the prevailing meteorological conditions. A large
portion of the emissions can also results from equipment traffic over temporary roads at
the construction site.

Potential impacts associated with dust emissions during the land preparation and the
constructionphase will be minimized by the following mitigation methods;

           0  Stockpiles of material will be done in such a manner so as not expose them
              to wind by covering them with suitable sheet material.

           0  The access road will be water sprinkled to prevent dust formation.

           0  Particular attention will be paid to dust suppression on the working width or
              at construction sites when working within dry weather conditions.

              Vehicles delivering dusty construction materials to the site or removing spoil
              will be limited at speed and covered.

The excavation works during construction of the project will be conducted in accordance
with "Regulation on Excavation Soil, Construction and Ruins Control" published by
18.03.2004 dated and 25406 numberedOfficial Gazette.

Total emission amount from the working machines were calculated and the emission
value is below the 1.5 kg/h limit value stated by Article 40 of Regulation on Industrial Air
PollutionControl. The vehicles will regularly be maintained and the vehicles will not be left
running unless needed.

6.5         Water and Wastewater

During the construction works of the project, water will be consumed for domestic
purposes and water spraying for dust prevention. Water demand of the AEATPP is
currentlysupplied from Ceyhan River Spring. During the rehabilitationof AEATPP and the
constructionof FGD unit, required water will also be supplied from the same source.

During the construction activities at the first and second phase of the project, the chief
source of wastewater will be from domestic wastewater of the workers. The wastewater
produced will be conveyed to existing domestic wastewater treatment plant of the power
plant. The capacity of the treatment plant will meet the wastewater load of the personnel


                                               14

 ELECTRICITYGENERATION                       REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTAN A THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                       PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


during construction phase as the plant was designed for operation phase of the power
 plant.

6.6          Solid Wastes

Solid wastes generated during the construction activities will include domestic solid
wastes from the personnel, medical wastes, and oily wastes, hazardous wastes such as
 used batteries, bitumen, cables, copper, fire-fighting foam, adhesives, general chemicals,
acids, oil rags and absorbents, solvents, contaminatedsoils, insulation, paint sludge, used
oil and paint cans and drums etc. and package wastes.

 Domestic wastes will be collected at black bags separated from medical, hazardous
dangerous and package wastes. Separately collected domestic wastes will be transported
to temporary waste storage center or container by special vehicles and they will be stored
separately. Domestic wastes will not be mixed with any hazardous waste and/or medical
waste during the collection.

All operations related with storage, transportation and disposal of domestic solid wastes
will be carried out in accordance with "Regulation on Solid Waste Control" published on
 14.03.1991 dated and 20814 numbered Official Gazette.

For the existing situation, solid wastes of AEATPP are taken by private firm for disposal.
Solid wastes produced during the construction works will also be disposed by the same
company.

Waste collection containers will be located in the project area. Recyclable wastes (paper,
plastic etc.) and irreversible organic wastes (food wastes) will be stored in different closed
containers.

Paper, cardboards, plastics and metal package wastes will be segregated according to
their type and collected by blue bags. Collection, transportation, storage and disposal of
packagewastes will be in accordance with Regulation on Package and PackagingWastes
issued on 30.07.2004 dated and 25538 numbered Official Gazette.

If any hazardous waste including heavy metals and chemical wastes is formed during the
construction phase, storage and disposal of these wastes wjll be conducted in compliance
with Regulation on Hazardous Control Regulation issued on 14.03.2005 dated and 25755
numbered Official Gazette.

Regulation on Waste Batteries and Accumulators Control came into force by 31.08.2004
dated and 25569 numbered Official Gazette will be complied.

The medical wastes produced at the medical center of the power plant will be collected at
red bags and containers and they will be disposed in compliance with Regulation on
Medical Waste Control.

Waste oil will be disposed in compliance with Regulationon Waste Oil Control came into
force by 21.01.2004 dated and 25353 numberedOfficial Gazette.




                                             15

ELECTRICITY GENERATION                        REHABILITATIONOF AFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                         PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


6.7          Noise

During the construction of both phases of the project noise is expectedfrom trucks, dozer,
mixer, excavator, compressor, and grader. The potential for noise will be minimized by
restrictingconstruction works to those hours permitted by the relevant working hours.

The noises from the vehicles used for the construction will not exceed the standard noise
levels and the limits of Regulation on Assessment and Management of Environmental
Noise will be met.

According to the calculations, noise level is below 70 dBA at 150 m distance from the
construction site. Nearest residential area is located 600 m far away from the AEATPP
location therefore noise levels would not expected to be excessive to have negative
impact on the community.

The Contractorwill supply the personnel protectiveequipment such as ear guards.

Personnel employed for the construction works will be accommodated in the existing
guesthouse of the power plant, Cogulhan Town and/or houses in the Afqin District.
Therefore whole technical/social infrastructure needs of the personne1 working for the
construction activities will be supplied from AEATPP, Cogulhan Town and /or Afqin
District.

6.8         Health and Safety

Duringthe construction phase of the project, the risks posed to human health are possible
industrial accidents resulting from the construction works requiring use of heavy
constructionequipment.

In order to minimizethese risks,

   0  Qualified personnel will be employed for the construction equipments and all
      personnelwill be trained for health and safety issues,

   0  Working shift of workers for construction activities will be limited, ,

   0  Personnel protection equipment such as eyeglasses, gloves, hard heads and safety
      belts will be supplied,

   0  Personnelwill be monitoredto assure they use protection equipment.

   0 Continuous health center will be established on project area and health centre and
     health staff will be ready for the incidents on site,

   0 The measureswill be taken for fire fighting.

Work Health and Safety Regulation came into force by 09.12.2003 date and 25311
numbered Official Gazette and Worker Health and Worker Safety Rule will be complied.




                                              16

 ELECTRICITYGENERATION                       REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
 CORPORATION INC.                      PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


 7           Environmental Impacts during Operation Phase of the Project and
             Necessary MitigationMeasures

 7.1         Water Consumption

 All of the water required for process (feed water, cooling water and domestic water)
 demand of AEATPP is supplied from Ceyhan Spring in Elbistan. Water is pumped to the
 power plant by four pumps each has 1800 m3/h capacity and two steel pipelines have
 been used for this purpose. Each line has 1 meter diameter and 30 km length. Incoming
 water is demineralizedbefore it is used in the process.

 Maximum water consumption of the AEATPP is about 4300 t/h. Raw water line currently
 feeding the AEATPP has a capacity of 7200 m3/hand the current maximum demand of
 AEATPP is 4300 t/h. When the FGD is retrofitted at AEATPP it will require 1000 tlh water
 supply. Therefore, the current source, namely Ceyhan Spring is enough for both the water
 demand of process and FGD of AEATPP.

 7.2        Wastewater

 In AEATPP, some of the wastewater is reused and some part is discharged. The
wastewater to be discharged is treated at sewage or ash water treatment plants and then
discharged to Cogulhan River in compliancewith discharge standards.

7.3         Air Quality Impacts and Air Quality Dispersion Modeling

The stack gas emission report of TUBITAK-MAM prepared at the year 2000, for SOnand
PM concentrationsof the power plant were used to estimate the source strength.

The calculations are carried out with a US-EPA regulatory model ISCST3 that is a well
known model and is the standard for most international studies. It is a satisfactory model
for dispersion calculations.The model is especially designed for tall stacks.

For the purpose of this project the short term version has been applied, since hour-by-
hour meteorology data is available and it is generally recognized that detailed modeling
with hour-by-hour meteorology will result in more precise calculations. It is especially
suitable for the Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant. The model accepts hourly
meteorological data records to define the conditions for plume rise, transport, diffusion,
and deposition. The model estimates the concentration or deposition value for each
source and receptor combination for each hour of input meteorology, and calculates both
yearly averaged and short term (daily) averages.

For the dispersion of the emissions from power plant, modeling was applied for both the
existing situation of the power plant and 3 different scenarios. First case is according to
the existing situation of power plant, second case is the no FGD and PM emissions are
limited to 100 mg/Nm3by ESPs, Third case is the FGD option and 100 mg/ Nm3 PM
concentration, the fourth case is FGD option an 50 mg/Nm3PM concentration is limited by
ESP. For each case, the contributionof AEBTPP was also taken into account.

Dispersion calculations are carried out, usingthe following elements:

                                             17

 ELECTRICITYGENERATION                        REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
 CORPORATION INC.                      PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT



     0  emission data,

     0  surface parameters,

     0  meteorologicaldata, and

     0  dispersion model.

 Hourly observations of three years data were used to calculate the daily and annual
 average concentrationsfor existing and future situation around power plant.

 7.3.1       Modeling Results for Existing Situation
 7.3.1.1.    SO2
 In all situations the contributions of all components have been calculated. To these
 concentrations contributing to the background concentration should be accounted. In the
 existing situation, the maximum yearly concentration is 65 pg/Nm3and at 1 km north of
the power plant. In the middle of Cogulhan the yearly contribution is about 40 pg/m3.This
 is lower than the long term Turkish limit values of 150pg/Nm3.The highest daily value is
 1214 pg/Nm3.However, over 95 per cent of the calculated SO2values calculated for the
year were within the limit value of 400 pg/Nm3.Therefore the modeling indicates that the
current plant operation is in full compliance with the Turkish air quality standard for short
term limits. This was further verified by continuous measurement results for ambient air
quality that was available in the area which also demonstrated compliance with the ST air
quality standard for SO2.

7.3.1.2.     NOx
The maximum annual average concentration is 11.7 pg/Nm3at 1 km north of the plant. In
Cogulhan the yearly average contribution is about 8 vg/Nm3.The highest daily value lies
Ikm west-southwest of the plant with a value of 236 pg/Nm3.All values are below the
Turkish limit values.

7.3.1.3.     Dust
The maximum yearly concentration is 119 pg/Nm3at 750 m north of the power plant. In
the middle of Cogulhan the yearly contribution is about 80 pg/Nm3.This is lower than the
long term Turkish limit values of 150 pg/Nm3.The highest daily value is 2427 pg/Nm3.

7.3.2        Comparison between Measured and Calculated with Modeling of SOz
             Values throughout the Winter and Summer Period
Measured and calculated ground level concentrations by the air quality dispersion model
reflect SO2and PMqolevels that are in compliancewith the Turkish regulation.

Measurement points and average measured concentrations are stated in the EIA Report.
Measured data (winter period) is compared with modeling value. The measured values
compare very well with the model results except for the measuring points HK 5, HK 7 and
HK IO. In the comparison that 7 out of 10 measuring points are in the same magnitude
indicatesthat the model is calculating in the right order.

Average concentrations are getting less of the three measuring period when comparing
with measured value and modeled value during the summer period. Measured and

                                             18

 ELECTRICITYGENERATION                          REHABILITATIONOF AFqIN-ELBISTAN A THERMAL POWER
 CORPORATIONINC.                          PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


 modeled values for the points HK 2, HK 4, HK 8, HK 9 and HK 10 are quite compatible.
 HK1 is placed in a hilly region, where the accuracy in the calculation is low.

 The highest measured value is 49.7 pg/m3 in HK 1, near the village Alemdar. This is
 below the Turkish long term SO2limit values of 150 pg/Nm3.

 7.3.3        Rehabilitation Scenarios
 7.3.3.1.     Base scenario
 The base scenario is the rehabilitation of the power plant without FGD. ESPs will be
 installed in this option. All of the stacks of the power plant will operate, the dust emission
will be reduced to 100mg/Nm3.Ambient dust and SO2levels will be in compliance with the
 ST and LT limits of the regulation.

 7.3.3.2.    Alternative 1 with FGD
 In this scenario a FGD is installed and will reduce the SO2 emission concentration to
 1000mg/Nm3.The dust emission will be reduced to 100mg/Nm3.All ST and LT levels of
 PMlo and SO2comply with Turkish air quality limits.
7.3.3.3.     Alternative 2 with FGD
 In this scenario a FGD is installed and will reduce the SO2 emission concentration to
 1000mg/Nm3. The dust emission concentration will be reduced to 50mg/Nm3. In this
alternative there is no difference in the local SO2contribution. The local dust contribution
concentrationwill be reduced by a factor of two.

7.3.4        Dispersion Calculations
Using the ISCST3 model, the dispersion calculations are carried out for SO2, PMlo and
NO,.

For PMlo, NO, and SO2there are both long term and short term averaged limit values are
given in Turkish Regulation to be checked. Long term average values calculated by the
model are average concentrations calculated over separate atmospheric classes and
averaged over at least one year. Since the one year period is not representative, 3 years
period is used in modeling studies. Considering the average of 3 years concentrations, it
will be the most representativevalue for future.

As a result of the modeling scenarios, it was determined that without an FGD, after the
rehabilitation, operation of the Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal Power Plant would comply with
Turkish ambient air quality regulations.

7.4          Ash and Gypsum Disposal

Ash and slag produced by combustion in the power plant have been carried by ash
transportation system. Ash is first removed by the ESPs and then it is conveyed to mining
area by ash conveyors and buried there by filling the empty area caused by the coal
extraction.

The ashes of AEATPP were analyzed according to parameters of Regulation on
Hazardous Waste Control Annex l l - A and it was observed that ash is not in the
hazardouswaste classification stated in the regulationin force.
                                                19

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                         REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTAN A THERMALPOWER
CORPORATIONINC.                        PLANTAND CONSTRUCTION OF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


At the second phase of the project, the gypsum from FGD unit will be mixed with ash and
then the mixture will be conveyed to the disposal at the mining area. Amount of gypsum
produced will be about 5,750 millions ton per year including sludge and ash. The water
amount in the gypsum will supply the moisture needs of the mixture to be conveyed. The
disposal of the mixture will be the same as the method stated above. Recycling of the
gypsum is not possible in this region. Ash and gypsum mixture will be disposed at the
mining area. Gypsum and waste ash from the power plant will be watered to prevent
blowing.

The ashes of existing AEATPP were analyzed by Middle East Technical University
Environmental Engineering Department according to parameters of Regulation on
Hazardous Waste Control Annex I l - A and the results are presented in the report of
"Research Project of Middle East Technical University on Storage of Thermal Power
Plants Ashes of TEAS According to the Regulation on Hazardous Waste Control (Project
Code No: 98.03.11.28)". The results were compared with the Regulation on Hazardous
Waste Control Annex l l - A and all parameters between the limit values and or in the
defined range, therefore the ashes can be land filled.

The cover of the disposal site will be afforested as current condition.

7.5          Other Solid Wastes

Disposal of sludge produced from wastewater treatment plant &pwa+a&                  will be
carried out according to the Regulation on Solid Waste Control and regulation on Soil
Pollution Control dated 31.05.2005.

Domestic solid wastes will also be produced during the operation period of the AEATPP.
Existing domestic waste production rate of power plant is 146.000 kg per year. Solid
wastes are collected by a private firm and they are disposed. After the first and second
phases of the project, same procedure will continue, no change in the amount of solid
waste is expected and the disposal method will remain the same if no additional
employmentwill be necessary.


7.6          Noise

Noise originates from workplace sites with high-powered equipment such as the steam
turbine, generator, and substations. The noise from these sources may exceed 85 decibel
acoustic (dBA) in the production area. The personnel working at these places should use
ear protection equipment. The impact of noise will be negligible beyond 500 m from the
site.

7.7         SoiI Acidification

General sensitivity classification of soil properties shows that soil samples of the project
area are not sensitive to acid deposition. Furthermore, sensivity to alkaline cation loss,
sensivity to dissolved "AI" and general sensivity is "L" Category (low sensivity).


                                              20

ELECTRICITY GENERATION                        REHABILITATIONOFAFSiN-ELBISTAN A THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                        PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECTEIA REPORT


In conclusion, the project will not expected to have a negative impact on regional soil
quality.

7.8          Impacts of the Project on Existing Agricultural Areas and Agricultural
             Products

The negative physical and chemical impacts on the soil and agricultural products should
be prevented. Within the scope of the first phase, rehabilitation project, of AEATPP, the
electrofilterswill be rehabilitated and ash will not be dischargedon the soil and agricultural
areas.

In addition to that, at the second phase of the project FGD unit will be installed and the
FGD retrofit will decrease the ground level concentration of SO2 emissions below the
limits of the Turkish Regulation.

7.9          Impacts on Groundwater and Surface Water and Mitigation Measures

Both sewage and ash water treatment plant will be in use during the operation of the
AEATPP. Therefore there will not be any discharge from the plant to the receiving water
bodies without treatment. Discharge parameters will be in compliance with the limits of
Water Pollution Control Regulation published on Official Gazette dated 31st of December
2004 and numbered 25687.

At the second phase of the project, gypsum produced at the FGD unit will be disposed by
discharging into the mining area where lignite is recovered completely. Low solubility of
ash and gypsum decreases the pollution risk. Dissolution and negative effect on
groundwater is not expected. Since the gypsum sludge is alkaline it tends to immobilize
heavy metals, preventingtheir leaching and subsequent migration to groundwaters.

Groundwater quality around the AEATPP will be monitored regularly during the operation
of the project.

7.10         Occupational Health and Safety

One of the expected health effects of the existing plant is the air pollution level resulting
from the power plant. Resultsof stack gas measurementsconducted by TuBiTAK MAM in
2000 show that dust and SO2emissions exceeds the limits of Regulation on Air Pollution
Control due to the failure ESP and lack of FGD unit. Therefore EUAS has planned the
rehabilitationof AEATPP and FGD retrofit.

Emissions will be under the limits of the Regulation on Industrial Air Pollution Control
currently in use.

Industrial accidents may be another risk that is normally seen at all industrial plants.
Personnel will be trained on Occupational Health and Safety Rules in order to guarantee
safety at plant. Details are given by EMP in the Annex 1A of the EIA report.

Waste management will properly be applied in the plant. All wastes will be collected and
disposed in accordance with Regulation on Water Pollution Control, Regulation on


                                             21

ELECTRICITY GENERATION                       REHABILITATIONOFAFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                      PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


Industrial Air Pollution Control, Regulation on Hazardous Wastes Control and Regulation
on Hazardous Chemicals.

Medical wastes produced from medical center of power plant will be disposed in
compliance with the Regulation on Medical Waste Control published by Official Gazette
dated 20.05.1993 and numbered21586.

Fire fighting system will always be present,tested and in service in the plant.

8           Environmental ManagementPlant (EMP)

An Environmental Management Plan reflecting the main environmental issues to be
addressed in both Phase I (Rehabilitation)and Phase II (FGD installation) of the program
has been prepared.

EMP establishes a framework for the identification of environmental protection, mitigation,
monitoring measures to be taken during both construction and operation phase of the
project. EMP consists of mainly seven chapters, as Project Description, Mitigation Plan,
Monitoring Plan, Institutional Strengthening, Schedule, Institutional Arrangements, and
Public Consultation.

EMP clearly indicates the environmental monitoring to be applied during the both first and
second phases of the project.

9           Public Meetingsand Disclosure

Public meeting for the projectwas held in Cogulhan Town, which is the nearest settlement
to AEATPP, in 17'hof March 2005. Participants of the meeting were local people, Mayors
of Cogulhan Town, Afgin District, Elbistan District, NGOs from Kahramanmarag,
authorities from A and B Power Plants, media, Regional Chamber of Agriculture
representatives, representativesof Ministry of Environmentand Forest, representatives of
Kahramanmarag Provincial Directorate of Environment and Forest, representatives from
General Directorate of EUAS, and representatives of EIA Consultants, Cinar Engineering.
Date of the meeting was determined by the Ministry of Environmentand Forestry. Place of
the meeting was determined by Kahramanmarag Provincial Organization of Environment
and Forestry.

Public meeting was announced to the people by the following methods ten days before
the meeting:

   0 Announcement in a national gazette,

   0 Announcement in the local gazette in Afqin and Elbistan Districts,

   0 Announcement on website of Qnar Engineering (www.cinarmuhendislik.com),

   0 Announcement at Afgin, Elbistan Districts Municipalities,

   0 Announcement at the Provincial Organization of Kahramanmarag Environment and
     Forestryfor informingtheir official directorates, NGOs and media,



                                             22

ELECTRICITYGENERATION                          REHABILITATIONOF AFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                          PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


       Announcement of the public directly from the office of CINAR rented in Cogulhan for
       a duration of one month and the public opinion on the project were obtained by
       written complaints at this office.

    0  Distributionof brochures before meeting.

 During the meeting a power point presentation was given to the public for explanation of
the phases of the project and existing situation with photographs.

The complaints of the public on the existing emissions from the plant, was especially
focused on dust deposition. Health problem and damage on agricultural products are also
mentioned by the participants and local residents. Another subject they mentioned is the
employment. Recruitmentat the both AEATPP and AEBTPP is their common request.

The draft EIA report was made available for the public and NGOs at the Municipalities of
Cogulhan Town, Afgin and Elbistan Districts, Kahramanmarag Provincial Directorate of
Environment and Forestry, Managementoffices of AEATPP and AEBTPP and the contact
office of CINAR in Cogulhan. Availability of draft EIA report for review of interested parties
for duration of 15 days starting from the 15'h of August 2005 was announced by
Kahramanmarag Provincial Directorate of Environment and Forestry and local
newspapers. Both Turkish and English summary of the EIA Report was also announced to
people at the web site of Qnar Muhendislik Mugavirlik ve Proje Hizmetleri Ltd.Sti.
(www.cinarmuhendislik.com).

The comments of the public and NGO's on the draft EIA and their statements at public
meeting were incorporated in the EIA Report. A general complaint of the public is the air
pollutant emissions of the existing power plant. People believe that the rehabilitation
project and FGD installation project on the second stage will decrease the emissions from
the power plant and they presenttheir thanks to EUAS.

The copies of EIA Report were distributed to the official institutions after the EIA Report
was accepted by the Ministry of Environmentand Forestryas a final document.

10           Impacts of the Project on Socio-Economic Environment and
             EnvironmentalCost BenefitAnalysis

As it is stated in the report, the failures caused decrease in the production capacity of the
AEATPP. Its production is very low compared to its design capacity. The rehabilitation is
inevitable because AEATPP has very important role in the economical use of the lignite
reserves and reverse as energy in Afgin-Elbistan Region and this power plant is the first
power plant of the region. The rehabilitationwill decrease the productioncost.

Environmental performance of the existing power plant has also been decreased due to
the failures in the plant especially on ESPs. PM and SOz emissions of the power plant
exceeds the limit values of Regulation on Industrial Air Pollution Control. By this project,
ESP rehabilitation and FGD retrofit will provide lower emissions; SOz and PM
concentrations will decrease the emission limit values of the regulation. Therefore,



                                               23

ELECTRICITY GENERATION                       REHABILITATIONOF AFSIN-ELBISTANA THERMAL POWER
CORPORATION INC.                      PLANTAND CONSTRUCTIONOF FGD UNIT PROJECT EIA REPORT


negative impacts on human health, agricultural products and other living organisms will
be minimized.

11           ProjectAlternatives

Rehabilitation of the existing power plant on the first phase and construction of FGD unit
on the second phase has no other alternative.

At the second phase, the most appropriate areas will be preferred for the location of FGD
unit and its buildings. From the technological point of view, the planned system for the
FGD, is wet-limestone process which is the most efficient system.

12          Conclusion

Main goals of the Project are to improve reliability and efficiency of the AEATPP and
extend the life of the plant and to decrease emissions of the plant below the limits of
Regulation on Industrial Air Pollution Control and to decrease the negative impacts on
environment. Therefore the project aims to decrease the negative impacts of the project
on the environment.

Rehabilitation of AEATPP at the first phase and installation of FGD unit at the second
phase will guarantee reliability and efficiency of the plant, it will also extend the life of the
plant and it will increase environmental performance of the plant which is one of the most
important power plants of Turkey.




                                             24

