Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2286 
Project Name 
Electricity Generation Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Power (100%) 
Project ID 
P085561 
Borrower(s) 
ELECTRIK URETIM AS (EUAS) 
Implementing Agency 
 
Elektrik Uretim AS (EUAS) 
Inonu Bulvari. No: 27 
KLMN Blok, Bahcelievler 
Turkey 
06490 
Tel: 90-312-212-14-23  Fax: 90-312-212-53-03 
muzaffar.basaran@euas.gov.tr 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 28, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 27, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
June 1, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Country Economic Overview 
ƒ
The Turkish economy has rebounded from the serious 2001 crisis 
the consequences of which 
were very serious.  By the end of 2001, the currency had devalued by 50 percent, nominal interest 
rates were about 100 percent, and the banking system had virtually collapsed.   
ƒ
GNP growth has been strong since 2001
 at 8 percent in 2002, 6 percent in 2003, 10 percent in 
2004 and about 5.5% last year.  Inflation is under control reaching single digits (7.7%) in 2005, 
the lowest in Turkey for 35 years. 
ƒ
Several factors contributed to the improved macroeconomic performance, key amongst them 
being: strong fiscal discipline which has allowed the maintenance of a large primary surplus on 
the order of 6.5 percent of GNP; on-going structural reform; and political stability since 2002. 
ƒ
The EU’s decision to open accession negotiations with Turkey in October 2005 
has been an 
important signal to financial markets and has created a firm anchor for the country’s development 
and structural reforms in the years ahead.   
 
Electricity Sector Reform 
ƒ
The Government has embarked upon a comprehensive reform and restructuring program of the 
electricity sector to create a liberalized, efficient and economic sector.   This was initiated by the 
Electricity Market Law (Law No. 4628) promulgated in February 2001.  The principles and goals 
of the reform program defined by this Law are substantially in line with EC Directives 
(1996/92/EC and 2003/54/EC) concerning rules for the internal market for electricity. 
ƒ
Turkey is a signatory of the Athens Memoranda of 2002 and 2003 that the EC initiated to develop 
the regional electricity market in South East Europe and eventually integrate it with the internal 
Page  2
electricity market of the European Union.  The 2002 Athens Memorandum initiated the regional 
market development process commonly referred to as the “Athens process”.  A more detailed 
version of the memorandum was signed in 2003, which is referred to as the Athens Memorandum 
2003, and supersedes the 2002 document. While other regional members signed the Treaty on 
October 25, 2005, Turkey did not, owing to reservations on some of the Treaty provisions. With 
the EU decision of October 3, 2005 to begin negotiations for full accession, reservations on the 
Treaty now become intertwined with the negotiations on the Energy Chapter of the 
Acquis 
Communautaire
.
Turkey however remains committed to, and continues to implement the 
provisions of the Treaty and the 2003 Athens Memorandum.   
ƒ
Functional and corporate restructuring of the sector 
–
The electricity sector has been 
restructured into a generating corporation EUAS, a trading corporation TETAS, a transmission 
corporation TEIAS, a distribution corporation TEDAS and regional distribution companies 
(DISCOs).  The regional distribution companies are being prepared for privatization. 
ƒ
Regulatory Authority
 
–
Turkey has set up an independent regulatory authority, the Energy 
Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) with jurisdiction over electricity, gas and petroleum.  
EMRA has powers over licensing, tariff setting and customer service issues. 
ƒ
Retail Competition in Electricity
 – Consumers whose annual consumption exceeds 6.0 GWh 
can choose their own supplier – this represents more than 30% of the total Turkish electricity 
market.  
ƒ
Competitive Market Structure
 – Market simulations are in progress to introduce a competitive 
bilateral contract market with a balancing and settlement system. TEIAS, the transmission 
company is the independent system operator, and will also be the market operator.  The market is 
expected to provide the necessary price signals for potential new generation. 
 
The key medium term issues facing the Turkish electricity sector include: 
ƒ
Ensuring supply security 
–
Electricity demand has been growing at about 6 percent per annum 
between 2002 and 2005 and the Government anticipates that it will accelerate over the next 
decade closer to the long term average of about 8% (The Government is also considering a low 
growth case where demand growth remains about 6%).  In any case, capacity increases on the 
order of 1,500-2,000 MW per annum are forecast to be required from around 2009-2010 onwards.   
The issue of concern is that there although licenses have been issued for about 6,000 MW of new 
capacity (of which 4,000 MW is for small hydro and wind) presently little new construction has 
been started.  These problems are largely linked to the on-going market implementation which 
has not yet led to the formation of creditworthy private distributors who can contract for new 
capacity and/or electricity offtake.  In order to strengthen supply security, the implementation of 
the market and privatization of distribution are vital.  The Bank team is working with the 
Government on a policy note on addressing supply security in parallel – this study focuses on the 
near term solutions as well as more systemic solutions for the medium term. 
ƒ
Accumulated arrears in the electricity utilities
 – Operating revenues at all the publicly-owned 
electricity and gas sector companies in Turkey are inadequate to meet their longer term level of 
operating costs and expenditures.   The problem is mainly in the distribution business managed by 
TEDAS.  As of 2004, the theft and loss percentage is 18.5% of purchases by TEDAS.  Due to 
these problems there is a 25-27% shortfall in payments for purchased electricity by TEDAS 
which in turn cascades as revenue shortfalls to all the upstream electricity and gas businesses.  
The Government is studying various alternatives to deal with the problem of accumulated arrears. 
ƒ
Transition to compliance with European internal market and environmental standards
 – 
Turkey is committed to the principles of the Athens memorandum, even though it did not sign the 
Page  3
Treaty in October 2005.  Although Turkey has begun implementing fundamental structural 
reforms in its power sector, some of which are more advanced than required from the EU’s 
perspective, there are several areas, such as the timeframe for complete retail market opening that 
Turkey has reservations on.  Turkey has already allowed significant retail market opening with 
eligibility for consumers whose annual consumption exceeds 6.0 GWh (this is more than 30% of 
the total Turkish market).  Turkey is perhaps only second to Romania in the degree of market 
opening amongst all SEE countries.   The results have been positive from the point of view of 
attracting new capacity and ensuring better supply quality for these consumers.  However, in 
order to free up all the existing consumers, several fundamental changes are required in the 
sector, most critical among these being the improvement in distribution system losses and 
payment discipline.  The Government is currently preparing for the privatization of distribution, 
which is seen as an important solution for these improvements.  Privatization however, has been 
delayed for several reasons, chief among them being the delays in creation of the electricity 
market, and the finalization of a privatization mechanism that is consistent with the market 
structure and operation, as well as legally permissible. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective of the project is to improve supply security during the reform transition and 
restructure the state-owned generation business into corporatized entities. 
 
Achievement of these objectives will be monitored through the following indicators: 
(a)  Progress in rehabilitation of Afsin-Elbistan A Power Plant; 
(b) Progress in creation of generation companies (Gencos) from EUAS and finalization of 
transitional contracts with distribution companies; and 
(c)  Improvement in dust emission levels. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed Energy Liberalization Project is an important complement and extension of the World 
Bank’s program of lending and advisory support to the Turkish energy sector.   This Project will address 
issues related to: 
ƒ
Achieving security of supply over the medium-term; and 
ƒ
Supporting the implementation of reforms in the electricity generation sector.  
 
Achieving security of supply over the medium term 
–
As discussed above, Turkey is likely to face 
growing shortages of energy in the 2009-2011 period depending on the pace of growth in demand.  In the 
absence of large scale private investment in the near term, the rehabilitation of existing generation 
capacity by EUAS will be the fastest and the most cost-effective way of providing available capacity and 
improving reliability.  As our economic and financial analyses demonstrate, the rehabilitation of Afsin-
Elbistan A power plant is the least cost alternative for incremental generation and can be completed in 
about 2.5-3 years, thus being the quickest source of additional energy.  This rehabilitation would give the 
Government some additional time to analyze its options for bringing in new capacity over the medium 
term.  Through engaging in this rehabilitation project therefore, the Bank would support one of the most 
critical investments in the sector at this stage. 
 
The Bank is uniquely placed to support the implementation of the reform program in the 
generation sector – 
The Bank has been advising the Government on its reform program over the past 
years, and will continue to do so.  In addition, the project can focus on several aspects of financial, 
accounting, operational and organizational restructuring which will have to be completed to establish the 
generation companies (Gencos) and prepare them for privatization.  The Bank will also provide assistance 
Page  4
to explore options for bringing in additional generation consistent with the evolving competitive market 
over the medium term.  Given the Bank’s institutional knowledge, and given the close relationship that 
the Bank has with the Turkey energy sector, the Bank would be ideally placed to provide support to the 
reform program through the project. 
 
The project will help in improving environmental compliance
 – The rehabilitation will include 
investments which will substantially reduce dust emissions, a significant problem in the area.  In addition, 
through its dialog with the Government, the Bank has helped accelerate a review of existing thermal 
plants, which has led to the Government to decide to implement flue gas desulphurization units (FGDs) 
after a reasonable transition period.  These investments are consistent with the EU requirements. 
 
4. Description 
 
The Project has two components: 
 
Component 1 
–
Afsin-Elbistan-A Rehabilitation
 
The main component of this project is the rehabilitation of 
Afsin-Elbistan A 
Power Plant.
 
The Afsin 
Elbistan generation complex which includes Afsin Elbistan A and the newly commissioned Afsin 
Elbistan B, is the largest thermal generation complex in Turkey.
 
Afsin Elbistan A has a capacity of 1,355 
MW (3x340 MW + 1 x335 MW) and its four units were commissioned between 1984 and 1987.  
Performance of the Afsin Elbistan A units in terms of efficiency and availability has deteriorated sharply 
because of inadequate maintenance.  Current available capacity is about 85% of its original installed 
name-plate capacity. 
 
This component will include: 
(a) 
Repair, replacement and upgrade of the power plant systems
 to restore reliability, availability, 
power output and improve plant efficiency.    
(b) 
Implementation of environmental protection systems and monitoring
 
–
new electrostatic 
precipitators (ESPs) will be installed to reduce and bring dust and particulate emissions within the 
Turkish Emission limits. Power plant dust emission from Afsin Elbistan A is the most significant 
environmental problem from the complex.   In addition, continuous environmental monitoring and 
data logging equipment will be provided and implemented.  Environmental monitoring practices will 
be revised and training will be provided. 
(c) 
Improvements in plant operation and maintenance practices
 that are critical to keep the plant in 
good operating condition with high availability after rehabilitation.  These will include procedures 
and systems for: equipment monitoring; historical data analysis for predictive maintenance; and 
maintenance scheduling. In addition, staff training programs to enhance operational and maintenance 
practices will be implemented. 
(d) 
Implementation of control systems to meet UCTE standards for primary and secondary 
frequency control
 – these systems would allow the power plant to meet the standards established by 
the Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity in Europe (UCTE).  Meeting these 
standards would help Turkey in being certified to operate synchronously with the South East 
European Electricity network. 
This component will also include support services for project implementation.  This will be in addition to 
the project management services that will be provided by RWE International.  
 
Component 2 
–
Support for Financial and Operational Restructuring of the Generation Business 
 
This component will focus on supporting EUAS in restructuring its generation business into financially 
and operationally viable portfolio generation companies and a hydro corporation.  This work will create 
Page  5
the basis for undertaking the future privatization of these generation entities.  The PHRD grant for the 
preparation of this Project has been utilized to begin this work.  Consultants have analyzed different 
portfolio configurations based on criteria such as fuel mix, load following capabilities and financial 
viability, and have also prepared draft transition contracts between GENCOs and TETAS/ distribution 
companies.  Based on this work, the Government has decided on 6 portfolio companies, and these have 
been earmarked as separate units within EUAS, in addition to the residual EUAS Hydro.  The Project 
proposes to assist in completing this work, focusing on aspects of financial and operational restructuring 
of the companies to create them as viable business units.   
 
The Project will also provide support, if necessary, to EUAS and the Government to implement 
mechanisms to address generation supply security needs in the period beyond 2008.  The initial work on 
assessing options and strategies is being funded through separate grant funds.   
 
5. Financing 
Source: (Euro 
million) 
BORROWER 100 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
280 
 Total 
380 
 
6. Implementation 
 
During project preparation the Japanese Government provided a PHRD grant which was used for the 
initial feasibility study and for preparation of the EIA for the project.  The Government of Japan has also 
provided funds for the construction of Afsin-Elbistan B power plant, adjacent to Afsin-Elbistan A.  This 
former plant shares some of the same infrastructure as Afsin Elbistan A.  In addition, PPIAF grants and 
the Spanish Trust Fund are being used for supporting the overall reform program, which also includes 
support for the initial work on restructuring of generation, and preparation of transition contracts between 
the generation and trading businesses. 
 
The project will be implemented by EUAS and a special Project Management Team (PMT) has been 
established to oversee the implementation.  Further, for Component 2, there is likely to be significant 
oversight from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.  The rehabilitation will be carried out by 
one contractor who will be overseen by the PMT aided by EUAS’ consultants, RWE, who will report to 
the PMT and EUAS top management.  In addition, there will be considerable focus given to the 
monitoring of the environmental impacts of the project and the plant in general, either as part of the 
implementation consultant contract, or as a separate contract.  Because of the importance of this project to 
EUAS and to Turkey, EUAS management will follow its progress closely. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project is considered sustainable for the following reasons: 
(a) 
Long-Term Competitiveness
 – The rehabilitation aims to extend the plant’s economic life by at 
least 20 years and will result in Afsin-Elbistan A being one of the least cost sources of base load 
power in Turkey.  Apart from being an important facility to provide incremental capacity and 
energy to mitigate anticipated supply shortfalls in the next few years, this plant will be 
preferentially dispatched over the long-term, since it will have low incremental costs and 
therefore will rank very high in the merit order. 
(b) 
Experienced Project Manager to Supervise Implementation 
–
During implementation, EUAS 
will be assisted by RWE in supervision of the works.  RWE is amongst the most experienced 
consulting engineers on lignite plant maintenance and rehabilitation and this is expected to speed 
Page  6
decision making on technical issues and choices that arise during the rehabilitation process, 
thereby reducing delays and maintain the project on schedule.  
(c) 
Focus on O&M Practice Improvement 
–
The project also includes in its scope, improvement in 
O&M practices in the plant, which will ensure that the plant is well-maintained after 
rehabilitation.   
(d) 
Adequacy of Fuel Reserves
 –  The lignite reserves at Afsin-Elbistan are approximately 2.6 
billion tons and both the Afsin-Elbistan A and B power plants together, operating at full capacity, 
are projected to use around 37 million tons per year.  Thus, the reserves at Afsin-Elbistan will be 
adequate for the two existing plants and also accommodate further capacity expansion.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Project design and preparation have benefited from the extensive experience that the Bank has in 
developing large infrastructure investment operations, and specifically in rehabilitation of generating 
plants. These include: 
 
(a) 
Comprehensive feasibility and technical review
 
The scope of the rehabilitation 
component has been developed based on a comprehensive feasibility study and technical review. The 
initial pre-feasibility study was done by Chubu Electric from Japan in 2004.  This study established 
the broad scope of the rehabilitation needed based on a technical and economic assessment.  This 
work clearly established the economic benefits of the rehabilitation. The Bank’s power engineers 
reviewed the pre-feasibility report and assisted EUAS in defining the terms of reference for the 
detailed engineering study.  The detailed engineering study was undertaken by RWE Consulting 
Engineers, Germany, an established engineering firm and an affiliate of a large electric utility which 
operates a number of lignite fired power plants and mines, and also has significant experience in 
lignite plant rehabilitation.  The detailed engineering study provided a full assessment of the power 
plant systems which require rehabilitation.  The detailed feasibility study was reviewed by the Bank’s 
power engineering team.  This review provided important inputs to the decisions on what is required 
and what is optional, and enabled EUAS to finalize the scope and cost estimates for rehabilitation. 
 
(b) 
Focus on addressing environmental issues systemically 
 
The EIA for this project 
analyzed the current and forecast (modeled) performance of the plant with regard to sulfur dioxide 
and dust emissions, and their impact on ambient air quality, and the requirement for an FGD.  Largely 
as a result of this analysis, the Government has carried out a review of existing thermal power plants 
and evaluated the alternative of installing FGDs on them.  The Government has processed a 
regulation which will provide each thermal plant with a transition period for implementing the FGD.  
As a result, Afsin A will have a transition of 5 years for installing the FGD (This is considered as the 
next phase of the project).  The rehabilitation of the plant will improve the plant’s environmental 
compliance especially in the area of dust emission, which has been identified, during public 
consultations, as the most significant environmental problem from the power station in the vicinity. 
 
(c) 
Flexibility in policy dialogue and recognition of macroeconomic priorities 
 The project has chosen 
flexibility in carrying out the policy dialogue on reforms in the Turkish electricity sector, as opposed 
to the use of hard policy conditionality within the loan.  Ongoing loans carry conditionality, and in 
recognition of the fact that Turkey, as an EU candidate country, is in the midst of negotiating the 
European 
Acquis
 on Energy, separate Bank conditionality in this loan was not considered critical.  
The project is therefore designed to support the Bank’s overall dialogue on the reform program which 
is consistent with the EU 
Acquis
 and being carried out in parallel (supported by ongoing loans and 
grants). 
 
Page  7
(d) 
Adaptation of procurement arrangements to suit specific circumstances 
 
EUAS and the 
Bank team evaluated the option of carrying out the rehabilitation using a number of procurement 
packages, covering respectively, the firing system, piping, balance of plant mechanical, balance of 
plant electrical, electrostatic precipitator, control and instrumentation, ash and coal handling, civil 
works, and plant chemistry.  This option was deemed unsuitable and EUAS and the Bank team chose 
to adopt a single supply and installation contract for the entire rehabilitation (except the turbines 
which are being rehabilitated separately by the original manufacturer of the turbines under a 
continuing service agreement), because this gives better control over implementation progress, and it 
reduces problems due to weaknesses, or delays, in integration across different packages. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
During public consultations as part of the EIA process, dust emissions were cited by the local populace as 
the most significant environmental impact in the vicinity of the plant.  The project therefore, includes 
rehabilitation of the electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) which will reduce dust emissions from current 
levels of 400-6000 mg/Nm
3
to 100 mg/Nm
3
in accordance with Turkish regulations.  The Turkish 
standard is the same as the relevant EU standard as well as the World Bank guidelines for dust emission 
for a plant with the size and fuel type such as that of Afsin Elbistan A 
–
the ESPs are however being 
designed to reach 50 mg/Nm
3
,
more conservative than EU and World Bank standards on dust emission. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
Project construction activities will present minor potential environmental issues associated with the 
movement of men, equipment and materials. Typical issues are dust, exhaust gases from combustion 
engines, noise, disposal of materials (hazardous and non-hazardous), etc.  All of these issues are of 
limited duration, confined to the plant boundaries, and/or are readily managed with standard good 
engineering and construction practices.  During operation, environmental issues are largely beneficial, 
particularly the benefits accrued with more efficient particulate removal.  When the FGD system is 
installed, disposal of gypsum may be an issue if markets in the construction materials sector do not 
develop to the extent of utilizing all the generated waste.  Depending on the FGD technology selected, 
water consumption and wastewater discharge are potential environmental issues requiring effective 
mitigation.  However, the gypsum is non-hazardous and in fact, its alkaline matrix will effectively inhibit 
mobilization of most trace metals preventing their migration into the environment.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
Final Feasibility Study – RWE 
Environmental Impact Assessment Report – Cinar and KEMA 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
11. Contact point 
Contact: Ranjit J. Lamech 
Title: Task Team Leader 
Tel: (202) 473-3282 
Fax: (202) 477-1386 
Email: Rlamech@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
