Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/31/2006 
Report No.:  AC1973
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Turkey 
Project ID:  P085561 
Project Name:  Energy Liberalization Project 
Task Team Leader:  Ranjit J. Lamech 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 27, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: June 1, 2006 
Managing Unit:  ECSIE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Power (100%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);Debt management and 
fiscal sustainability (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
300.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
206.00
206.00 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
To improve supply security during the reform transition and restructure the state-owned 
generation business into corporatized entities.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1 -  Afsin-Elbistan A Rehabilitation:  This component will focus on the 
repair, replacement and upgrade of the major equipment of Afsin-Elbistan A Power Plant 
in order to restore reliability, availability, power output and improve plant efficiency.   
 
Component 2 
–
Support for Financial and Operational Restructuring of the Generation 
Business:  
 
This component will focus on supporting EUAS in restructuring its generation business 
into financially and operationally viable portfolio generation companies and a hydro 
corporation.  This work will create the basis for undertaking the future privatization of 
these generation entities.   
 
Page  2
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Rehabilitation of a lignite fired power plant in the Afsin and Elbistan districts of 
Kahramanmaras Province Turkey. Nearest town is Cogulhan.  
 
Although rehabilitation of a thermal power station normally receives a Category B 
rating, this project was   assigned “Category A” because of the detailed air quality impact 
analysis that was required to determine if derogation of the FGD plant was acceptable. 
The EIA was completed and approved by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The 
EIA established that: (a) current SO2 emissions from Afsin-Elbistan A Thermal Power 
Station do not  result in a violation of  Turkish ambient air quality standards for SO2, and 
(b) after rehabilitation of the power station without retrofitting FGD units, Turkish air 
quality standards for SO2 in the Afsin-Elbistan airshed will still not be violated, thus a 
transition period (derogation) of the FGD units is justified.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody (ECSSD) 
Mr Bernard Baratz (ECSIE) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
This project is the first phase of an overall program for the rehabilitation of an existing 
power plant. In this first phase financed by the Bank and the borrower, the plant will be 
rehabilitated with the installation of high efficiency ESPs and dust emission levels will be 
reduced by approximately 99% compared to where they would be at full operation of the 
plant without rehabilitation.  (The plant would then meet both Turkish and EU dust 
emission regulations: 100 mg/Nm3).In the second phase of the program an FGD will be 
installed and emissions of sulfur dioxide reduced by approximately 77% from current 
levels to meet Turkish sulfur dioxide emission standards of 1000 mg/Nm3.  The Turkish 
Ministry of Environment and Forests has granted a 5 year transition period for the FGD 
installation which is consistent with EU practice, where, because of the substantial 
Page  3
investment requirements such transition periods have been offered to new EU members 
as well as EU candidates because of the substantial investment requirement for FGD. 
Potential environmental impacts associated with the construction phase of the project are 
the minor, limited duration and reversible ones normally associated with any construction 
activity, namely: dust, noise, disposal of waste materials etc. All of these potential 
impacts can be easily mitigated with good engineering design and construction practices. 
There are no significant impacts associated with the rehabilitated plant, on the contrary, 
the rehabilitated ESPs will improve ambient air quality with respect to dust which in turn 
could improve both local public health and crop productivity. The public consultation 
process conducted during EA preparation identified dust emissions from Afsin Elbistan 
–
A
operation as the chief  impact on local agricultural production. With the installation of 
the FGD, the chief issues would be management of spent sorbent (gypsum) and increased 
water demand to operate the FGD units. The gypsum produced will be mixed with ash 
and deposited in the exhausted area of the lignite mine. Since the addition of gypsum to 
the ash will increase alkalinity of the mixture, it will tend to immobilize any trace metals 
in the ash and reduce the risk of heavy metal leachates. There are adequate water 
resources in the Afsin-Elbistan area to accommodate the FGD operation without affecting 
existing water use demands in the region.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
NA   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The planning group in the Government (TEIAS) considered installing a gas fired 
combined cycle plant instead of rehabilitating Afsin Elbistan A. However, rehabilitation 
was considerably less expensive and also avoided the social costs of massive 
unemployment associated with closing a major plant in an isolated area.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The key environmental issues as identified in the EIA process have been reflected in the 
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which the Borrower supports, has agreed to 
implement and will partially finance from its own resources. The Borrower, when it was 
an integrated company, had a long history of successfully implementing World Bank 
projects and compliance with World Bank Safeguard policies. Under the current 
organizational structure, the environmental capacity remains intact and is capable of 
planning and implementing the required measures.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders are the Government (EUAS, MENR, SPO, MoEF, Treasury) 
representing the people of Turkey, and the local population around the plant. EUAS 
consults constantly with the relevant Government institutions and requires approvals 
from MENR, SPO, MoEF and Treasury to proceed with the project. The local population 
Page  4
was consulted and public consultations were held close to the plant as part of the EIA 
procedures required by both the Government of Turkey and the World Bank.  A public 
meeting on the proposed project was held in Cogulhan, the closest town, on March 17, 
2005. The draft EIA report was made available to the public starting on August 15, 2005 
with comments received thereafter.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/24/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
08/15/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/31/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
02/07/2006  
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Page  5
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ranjit J. Lamech 
03/27/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Bernard Baratz 
03/27/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody 
03/28/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
03/30/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Motoo Konishi 
03/31/2006 
Comments:  cleared 
