                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: NCO00001387



                  NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                              (IBRD-48240)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 280 MILLION
                        (US$ 336 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                            ELEKTRK ÜRETM A.. (EÜA)

                                     FOR A

   ELECTRICITY GENERATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING
                           PROJECT



                                  April 27, 2010




Infrastructure Department
Europe and Central Asia
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 11/16/09)

                       Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
                             1.00 = US$0.68
                            US$ 1.00 = 1.47

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1- December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BOP      Balance of Plant (BOP)
ESPs     Boiler and Electrostatic Precipitator
EMRA     Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA)
DISCOS   Regional Distribution Companies
GWh      Gigawatt hour
PMT      Project Management Team
UCTE     Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity in Europe




                       Vice President: Philippe Le Houérou
                     Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
                      Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
                  Project Team Leader: Sameer Shukla
                  NCO Team Leader : Fan Zhang
                            TURKEY
    ELECTRICITY GENERATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING
                            PROJECT




                                                     CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation. ......................................... 6
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance............................................................................... 8
  4. Assessment of Borrower Performance........................................................................ 9
  5. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 9
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 11
  Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 13
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Electricity Generation
Country:                Turkey                    Project Name:               Rehabilitation and
                                                                              Restructuring Project
Project ID:             P085561                   L/C/TF Number(s):           IBRD-48240
NCO Date:               04/28/2010
                                                                              ELECTRIK URETIM
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                              AS (EUAS)
Original Total
                        USD 336.0M                Disbursed Amount:           USD 0.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 83.8-M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 EUAS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/09/2004      Effectiveness:             11/07/2006          11/07/2006
Appraisal:             03/27/2006      Closing:                   12/31/2011          12/31/2011
Approval:              06/06/2006

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                         Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40
Regulation and competition policy                                     20



                                                  i
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                40

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At NCO                             At Approval
Vice President:           Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Ulrich Zachau                         Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Ranjit J. Lamech                      Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:      Sameer Shukla                         Sameer Shukla
NCO Team Leader:          Sameer Shukla
NCO Primary Author:       Sameer Shukla


F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                            IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     01/28/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.89
  2     06/28/2007           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.89
  3     03/26/2008           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.89
                             Moderately                   Moderately
  4     04/04/2009                                                                        0.89
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
                             Moderately                   Moderately
  5     06/12/2009                                                                        0.89
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
  6     01/07/2010          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.89




                                                ii
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD,
briefly describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance,
development objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation arrangements,
risk analysis, and quality at entry):

Country and Sector Background

By the time of project appraisal in 2005, the Turkish Government was well on its way to
implementing a comprehensive reform and restructuring program of the electricity sector
to create a liberalized, efficient and economic sector. This was initiated by the Electricity
Market Law (Law No. 4628) promulgated in February 2001. The following aspects had
been implemented:

Functional and corporate restructuring of the sector - The electricity sector had been
restructured into a generating corporation EUAS, a trading corporation TETAS, a
transmission corporation TEIAS, a distribution corporation TEDAS and regional
distribution companies (DISCOS). The regional distribution companies were being
prepared for privatization.

Regulatory Authority - Turkey had set up an independent regulatory authority, the
Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) with jurisdiction over electricity, gas and
petroleum. EMRA has powers over licensing, tariff setting and customer service issues.

Retail Competition in Electricity - Consumers whose annual consumption exceeded 6.0
gigwatt hours (GWh) were eligible, i.e., could choose their own supplier - this
represented more than 30% of the total Turkish electricity market in 2005.

Competitive Market Structure ­ In 2005 and 2006, market simulations were in
progress to introduce a competitive bilateral contract market with a balancing and
settlement system. TEIAS, the transmission company and independent system operator,
would also be the market operator. The market was expected to provide the necessary
price signals for potential new generation.

In August 2006, a competitive wholesale market was established. Since its inception, the
power exchange market has been growing rapidly. Currently, more than 200 private
companies are participating in the power trading, through which more than 18% of the
daily electricity supply is dispatched. The market is scheduled to move from monthly
settlements to hourly settlements, and from day ahead balancing to a day ahead spot
market.

Generation and Distribution Privatization - A privatization program was initiated,
starting with distribution, followed by generation. In 2008, 4 regional distribution
companies were tendered and successfully awarded to private sector investors. A second
round of privatization for 3 more distribution companies is currently ongoing, expecting
to be followed by additional tenders until the eventual full privatization of the




                                             1
distribution. Similarly, successor generation companies will be created from the EUAS,
some to be privatized while large hydro may remain government owned.

Although important progress had been made in reforming the power sector, the sector
also faced several key issues:

 (a) Ensuring supply security - Electricity demand had been growing at about 6 percent
per annum between 2002 and 2005 and the Government anticipated that it would
accelerate over the next decade closer to the long term average of about 8% (the
Government was also considering a low growth case where demand growth remains
about 6%). In any case, capacity increases on the order of 1,500-2,000 MW per annum
were forecast to be required from around 2009-2010 onwards. The issue of concern was
that although licenses had been issued for about 6,000 MW o f new capacity (of which
4,000 MW is for small hydro and wind), at project design very little new construction had
been started. These problems were largely linked to the ongoing market implementation
which had not yet led to the formation of creditworthy private distributors who can
contract for new capacity and or electricity offtake. In order to strengthen supply security,
the implementation of the market and privatization of distribution were vital. The Bank
team was working with the Government on a policy note on addressing supply security in
parallel - this study focused on the near term solutions as well as more systemic solutions
for the medium term.

(b) Accumulated arrears in the electricity utilities - Operating revenues at all the
publicly owned electricity and gas sector companies in Turkey were inadequate to meet
their longer term level of operating costs and expenditures. The problem was mainly in
the distribution business managed by TEDAS. Tariffs had not been increased since 2002.
As of 2004, the theft and loss percentage was 18.5% of purchases by TEDAS. Collection
efficiency was in the order of 90%, with the main defaults coming from government
establishments and municipalities. Due to these problems there was a shortfall in
payments for purchased electricity by TEDAS which in turn cascaded as revenue
shortfalls to all the upstream electricity and gas businesses. The Government was
studying various alternatives to deal with the problem of accumulated arrears.

 (c) Transition to compliance with European internal market and environmental
standards - Turkey was committed to the principles of the Athens Memoranda, 2002 and
2003, even though it did not sign the Treaty in October 2005 for other reasons. Although
Turkey has begun implementing fundamental structural reforms in its power sector, some
of which were more advanced than required from the EU's perspective, there were
several areas, such as the timeframe for complete retail market opening that Turkey had
reservations on, for good reasons. Turkey had already allowed significant retail market
opening with eligibility for consumers whose annual consumption exceeds 6.0 GWh (this
was more than 30% of the total Turkish market). Turkey was perhaps second only to
Romania in the degree of market opening amongst all SEE countries. The results have
been positive from the point of view of attracting new capacity and ensuring better supply
quality for these consumers. However, in order to free up all the existing consumers,
several fundamental changes were required in the sector, most critical among these being
the improvement in distribution system losses and payment discipline. At project design,


                                             2
the Government was preparing for the privatization of distribution, which was seen as an
important solution for these improvements. Privatization, however, had been delayed for
several reasons, chief among them being the delays in creation of the electricity market,
and the finalization of a privatization mechanism that is consistent with the market
structure and operation, as well as legally permissible.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

The Bank's support under the proposed Electricity Generation Rehabilitation and
Restructuring Project was predicated on four important elements:

   ·   Help Turkey achieve security of supply over the medium-term (specifically
       energy shortages in the 2009-2010 period).
   ·   Help prevent further deterioration and enhance value of an important state asset.
   ·   Improve environmental quality and environmental compliance.
   ·   Help advance the implementation of reforms in the electricity generation sector in
       a manner consistent with the overall reform program.

From the perspective of the World Bank's energy program in Turkey, the Project was an
important part of the Bank's ongoing lending and advisory support to the Turkish energy
sector. The overall assistance of the Bank supported the implementation of structural
reforms, bridges gaps in electricity and gas service delivery needs during the transition,
and assists in meeting EU integration challenges. This loan in particular would support
reforms in the generation sector. In addition, given its expertise in the power sector and in
environmental management, the World Bank is uniquely positioned to provide the
technical assistance required under this rehabilitation project.

Development Objectives

The Project development objective was to improve supply security during the reform
transition and restructure the state owned generation business into corporatized entities.

Achievement of these objectives would be monitored through the following indicators:

(a) Progress in rehabilitation of Afsin-Elbistan A Power Plant;
(b) Progress in creation of generation companies (Gencos) from EUAS and finalization of
transitional contracts with distribution companies; and
(c) Improvement in dust emission levels by the Afsin Elbistan A Power Plant.

Components, Costs and Funding

The Project had two components:

Component 1 - Afsin-Elbistan-A Rehabilitation




                                             3
Afsin-Elbistan is a lignite-fired power plant of 4 units (three 340 MW units and one 1335
MW unit) with a total capacity of 1355 MW. The plant was commissioned between 1984
and 1987. Plant operational performance had deteriorated significantly over time, mainly
on account of inadequate maintenance.

This component included:

(a) Repair, replacement and upgrade of the power plant systems to restore reliability,
availability, power output and improve plant efficiency.

(b) Implementation of environmental protection systems and monitoring - new
electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) would be installed to reduce and bring dust and
particulate emissions within the Turkish Emission limits. Power plant dust emission from
Afsin Elbistan A is the most significant environmental problem from the complex. In
addition, continuous environmental monitoring and data logging equipment would be
provided and implemented. Environmental monitoring practices would be revised and
training would be provided.

(c) Improvements in plant operation and maintenance practices that are critical to
keep the plant in good operating condition with high availability after rehabilitation.
These would include procedures and systems for: equipment monitoring; historical data
analysis for predictive maintenance; and maintenance scheduling. In addition, staff
training programs to enhance operational and maintenance practices would be
implemented.

(d) Implementation of control systems to meet UCTE standards for primary and
secondary frequency control - these systems would allow the power plant to meet the
standards established by the Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity in
Europe (UCTE). Meeting these standards would help Turkey in being certified to operate
synchronously with the South East European Electricity network.

Component 2 - Support for Financial and Operational Restructuring of the
Generation Business

This component focused on supporting EUAS in restructuring its generation business into
financially and operationally viable portfolio generation companies and a hydro
corporation. This work would create the basis for undertaking the future privatization of
these generation entities. The PHRD grant for the preparation of this Project was utilized
to begin this work. Consultants had analyzed different portfolio configurations based on
criteria such as fuel mix, load following capabilities and financial viability, and had also
prepared draft transition contracts between GENCOs and TETAS/distribution companies.
Based on this work, the Government decided on 6 portfolio companies, and these were
earmarked as separate units within EUAS, in addition to the residual EUAS Hydro. The
Project would assist in completing this work, focusing on aspects of financial and
operational restructuring of the companies to create them as viable business units.




                                             4
This component was not implemented, because (1) EUAS was fully occupied with Afsin-
Elbistan rehabilitation; and (2) the Government indicated that the restructuring of EUAS
into portfolio generation companies should not proceed until the Government's strategy
on privatization became clear. However, in parallel there was progress in creating
separate portfolios within EUAS, which operated like business units. They entered into
separate transitional contracts with the distribution companies, and operated in the market
as separate companies. At this point, the portfolio concept is under review, and
government may decide to privatize specific plants separately.

The Project costs and financing are summarized in the following table:

Table 1 Project Components, Costs and Sources of Financing( million)

                                    Appraisal Cost Estimate Revised Cost Estimate
Project Cost By Component           Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
Component 1 - Afsin Elbistan        99.9   228.3      328.2 120.3 275.0      395.2
A Rehabilitation
Component 2 ­ Financial                      3.0         3.0              3.0         3.0
Operational Restructuring of
Generation
Total Baseline Costs                99.9     231.3       331.2    120.3   277.9       398.2
         Physical contingencies     10.0     23.1        33.1     12.03   27.8        39.8
             Price contingencies    5.0      11.6        16.6     6..0    13.9        20.0
Total Project Costs                 114.9    266.0       380.9    138.4   319.6       458.0

Implementation Arrangements

The project was planned to be implemented by EUAS and a special Project Management
Team (PMT) was established to oversee the implementation. Further, for Component 2,
there was oversight from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. The
rehabilitation was expected to be carried out under a single contract, by suitably qualified
contractors who would be overseen by the PMT aided by EUAS' consultants, RWE, who
reported to the PMT and EUAS top management. In addition, there was considerable
focus given to the monitoring of the environmental impacts of the project and the plant in
general, either as part of the implementation consultant contract, or as a separate contract.

Risk Analysis

The overall project risk was assessed to be Substantial at project appraisal. Specifically,
procurement was identified as a high risk factor because EUAS did not have experience
of using the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures. Additionally, the main
contract under the project was expected to be a very large and complex contract. EUAS
therefore, would use the two-stage bidding process. To mitigate the risk, the Bank's
procurement staff had been providing training and significant guidance on the bid
documentation. EUAS was also being assisted by RWE in the preparation of the
specifications and the bid document.


                                             5
At the time of project approval, the power plant was the subject of a dispute with a
private company ­ in 1999, the Government had signed a concession agreement with the
private company, which covered operation of the plant and construction of a new unit.
EUAS and TEIAS, and later also the Ministry, had stated that this agreement would not
be consistent with the market conditions in force after the Law was approved in 2001.
This dispute was considered a high risk, but the Bank decided to proceed with the Project
nonetheless, based on the Government's assurance that despite the outcome of the
dispute, it would support the financing of the rehabilitation of the plant by Bank funds.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

During the first two years of the Project, the procurement of the Rehabilitation Works
had been initiated through a two-stage bidding process without pre-qualification. Two
bidders applied at the first stage with qualified bids, and were initially not found fully
responsive ­ at EUAS' request, the Bank agreed that EUAS may hold clarification
meetings with the bidders, based on which, the bidders were considered qualified, and
were invited to the second stage. The main concern of the bidders was the performance
guarantees that were required. Based on the discussions, the guarantees were reassessed:
EUAS agreed with the bidders to remove the requirement for functional guarantees for
the boiler efficiency and availability. Other parameters of functional guarantees were
retained (?) These parameters are difficult to measure accurately and will depend on a
number of factors, such as coal quality, which will be outside the control of the
contractor.
One of the two bidders stated that they would not be able to qualify for the rehabilitation
of all four units of the plant, and thus requested that four units of the plant be
rehabilitated in two stages of two units each ­ EUAS did not agree with this request, on
account of impending supply security concerns, but allowed the bidder to strengthen their
consortium. However, despite all these adjustments, neither of the two bidders bid at the
second stage of the bidding process for the rehabilitation works.

The main reasons for this outcome had been concluded to be the following: (a) bidders'
perceived risks of not being able to achieve the functional guarantees of a large scope
rehabilitation works (1,300 MW), and the associated financing challenge, and (b)
significant growth in demand for generation equipment and greenfield generation projects
around the world, as a result of which bidders were more inclined to utilize their
fabrication and project implementation capacity to Greenfield projects that had higher
profit margins and/or less risk.

Thereafter, EUAS proposed to proceed with the project with a revised procurement
approach ­ by separating the single consolidated package covering the entire project into
separate supply and installation packages for different works. The main package in this
approach was the boiler and electrostatic precipitator (ESP). The remaining works
relating to Balance of Plant (BOP) ­ mechanical, BOP ­ electrical, Turbine auxiliaries,



                                            6
civil works etc. would be either combined into one package or 3-4 packages, based upon
the likely potential for competition in either case. EUAS also proposed to use a single-
stage process based on the assessment that a larger number of qualified firms would
potentially be interested in the separate packages, and that the scope of work for different
packages would be clearer to bidders.

The Bank agreed with the approach of dividing the scope into multiple packages and the
single-stage process in August 2008 given the large scope and type of work entailed in
the project, and given that most firms which could potentially qualify for such a scope
had not expressed their interest.The Bank suggested, however, that a pre-qualification
stage be included, and EUAS agreed (Please refer to Annex-12, OPRC Review Report,
Sept 03, 2008).

The prequalification process for the boiler package was initiated in November 2008 and 4
firms submitted applications on March 09, 2009. After completing the evaluation of the
4 applicants, EUAS concluded that none of the four firms were qualified. The Bank
team's review of the pre-qualification documents indicated that while all the firms did not
fully meet all the qualification criteria, there seemed to be two firms who could be
considered substantially qualified and there would be adequate justification to request
them to submit bids.

However, at the same time, the Government started an unrelated investigation into the
procurement actions by EUAS. The General Manager of EUAS was requested to be on
leave to facilitate the investigation. In the absence of senior management, and in this
environment of the ongoing investigation, the transitional management team of EUAS
did not feel empowered to take decisions relating to considering the two potentially
promising bids responsive ­ this would have entailed waiving certain criteria not
considered materially significant.

In September 2009 therefore, EUAS requested the Bank to allow cancellation of the
bidding process, followed by a cancellation of the Bank loan.

The Government and the Bank agreed that under the environment of the ongoing
investigation plus the absence of a full-time General Manager, EUAS may not be in a
position to implement such a large and complex project. Therefore, instead of re-starting
a third procurement attempt, it would be more prudent to cancel the project.

It is likely that in future, EUAS will resume the process of rehabilitating Afsin-Elbistan
A, either with Bank support or on their own. In fact, EUAS has stated that in the near
future, it may seek a new Bank loan for other priority investments. They have written to
Treasure with a request. Once the management issues are sorted out, a re-engagement
could be considered, if necessary.

On the other hand, the Government plans to privatize the plant, with an obligation on the
private investor to invest on rehabilitating the plant to meet environmental standards.




                                             7
This, although, will depend on the resolution of the ongoing dispute regarding the
concession agreement.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

Quality at Entry was satisfactory. The Bank team reviewed international experience in
thermal power plant rehabilitations in the preparation stage to identify key sector issues.
It requested for upstream pre-feasibility studies, which were then followed up with a
detailed feasibility study. The Bank also placed significant importance on environmental
issues, and project design was finalized after the environmental impacts had been
assessed. The team chose flexibility in carrying out the policy dialogue on reforms in the
Turkish power sector, as opposed to the use of hard policy conditionality within the loan.
Risk analysis was sufficient and issues surrounding procurement were rightfully
identified as major risk factors and relevant mitigation measures were implemented.
With hindsight, it can be said that the project design, of relying on a single contract for
the entire rehabilitation, was perhaps ambitious, given that (a) EUAS did not have
experience in the rehabilitation of this magnitude, and (b) there were very few, if any,
examples elsewhere in the world of such a large plant (1350 MW) fueled by low-quality
lignite, being rehabilitated in one turnkey package. However, given the market
conditions, where suppliers were over-committed with new plant orders, it is not clear
whether the use of more conservative procurement arrangements would have led to
greater success. Indeed, the second procurement process which utilized separate smaller
packages, failed to produce responsive bidders as well.

An option that was discussed with the Government and EUAS at the time of the second
bidding process was to split the contract into two phases, one initial phase for one or two
of the four units, followed by one or more phases for the remaining units. The benefit of
this option would be that the initial phase would be of a smaller value, thereby potentially
increasing the number of qualified firms. Secondly, it would provide good experience on
the basis of which the second or subsequent phases could be tailored more appropriately.
This option however, was not considered feasible mainly because there were some
facilities which were common to all four units, and separating the units could have
created additional coordination and implementation issues. Further, mainly on account of
the impending supply security issues, the Government was keen to complete the
rehabilitation quickly, and felt that splitting the units could delay completion.

Quality of Supervision was satisfactory. During supervision, the Bank team
maintained cordial and productive relations with EUAS and the government institutions
involved. Both preparation and supervision teams were technically strong, and
supervision benefited from continuity of task team leadership and inputs from sector
experts. The Bank also showed good judgment, persistence, and was proactive in
resolving difficult issues in a timely manner, as discussed in the previous section.
Given satisfactory ratings for both quality at entry, and quality of supervision, the overall
Bank performance is rated satisfactory.


                                             8
4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):

The government performance was moderately satisfactory. The government was
supportive to the design and preparation of the project. However, project implementation
could perhaps have benefited from stronger and more regular coordination at suitably
high levels among different government entities involved, especially in resolving the
management issues at EUAS. Such a weakness was tempered by the government's
continued strong commitment to the electricity sector reform and environmental
improvement programs. Moving forward, the government has also considered privatizing
the plant with an obligation of rehabilitation on the private investor.
The Implementing Agency performance was moderately unsatisfactory. During the
first procurement process, implementation was adversely affected by the change of the
condition of the global energy equipment market. EUAS had been proactively engaged in
resolving the challenges, including amending the bidding documents to accommodate the
concerns of the bidders and adopting a revised procurement approach ­ by separating the
single consolidated package covering the entire project into separate supply and
installation packages for different works. However, in the later, crucial stages, project
implementation suffered from the absence of full-time senior management in EUAS (on
account of the concurrent investigation) and its consequent inability to make operational
decisions, which led to the eventual cancellation of the project. The overall
performance        of      EUAS       was      thus     moderately        unsatisfactory.
Given moderately satisfactory rating for government performance and moderately
unsatisfactory rating for implementing agency performance, the overall borrower
performance rating was moderately unsatisfactory.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The lessons learned from the Project are:

   1. Rehabilitation of large power plants is highly complex and risky, and it is difficult
      to attract interested qualified bidders. To meet the requirement for functional
      guarantees for plant performance, a contractor faces technical and financing
      challenges, as well as other factors that are out of the control of the contractor,
      such as fuel quality. Qualified bidders may not want to take the risks on
      functional guarantees and to bear on high financial commitments. Perhaps the
      prudent solution for such investments is through private participation, where the
      private investor is given the mandate of rehabilitating the plant as well as
      operating it thereafter. This approach may reduce risk perceptions, and also
      provide sufficient incentives to the private sector to undertake such investments.

   2. An investment program with strategic importance like this project needs to be
      strongly committed by the Government. The Government was very supportive


                                            9
   through the project implementation. It would have been effective if a regular
   monitoring mechanism led by the Government as the owner of the project and
   involving the Implementing Agency and World Bank had been established. Such
   a mechanism could have addressed the difficult challenges facing EUAS towards
   the end of this project. While the Task Team briefed the Government
   representatives (the Treasury and Ministry of Energy) on a regular basis as a part
   of its supervision mission, the meeting did not function as a Government led
   decision making mechanism.

3. Assessing the market condition for project implementation. Particularly for
   operations that involve large and highly technical procurement packages, the
   assessment of market conditions should be a critical element at the design stage.
   Existing or potential related risks, such as the one about the availability of
   suppliers which materialized for the Electricity Generation project, needs to be
   carefully assessed both by the implementing agency and the Government as well
   as the World Bank and mitigating measures could be identified at the beginning
   stage.    The EUAS team supported by the Bank team adapted well to the
   challenging market situation by repackaging the procurement.

4. A strong and well-staffed implementing agency equipped with suitable decision-
   making authority is necessary for such a large and complex project to be
   implemented successfully. In addition, it would be useful to consider hiring the
   services of a qualified and experienced firm to assist the implementing agency in
   project management and supervision, starting with preparation of tender
   documents, managing the procurement process, and eventually assisting in
   implementation.




                                       10
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu          Senior Procurement Specialist    ECSC2
Ranjit J. Lamech                     Sector Manager             ECSS2
Devesh Chandra Mishra         Regional Procurement Manager     ECSPS
James Sayle Moose                       Consultant             AFTEG
Sameer Shukla                        Sr Energy Spec.            ECSS2
Yukari Tsuchiya                         Temporary              ECSSD
Selma Karaman                       Program Assistant          ECCU6
Shinya Nishimura                    Financial Analyst           ECSS2
Masaki Takahashi                   Sr. Power Engineer          ETWEN
Bernard Baratz                   Environment Specialist        ECAVP

Supervision/NCO
Ayse Seda Aroymak             Sr Financial Management Specia   ECSC3
Bernard Baratz                           Consultant            ECAVP
Sergio Augusto Gonzalez
                                    Sr Power Engineer          ECSS2
Coltrinari
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu           Senior Procurement Specialist   ECSC2
Selma Karaman                       Program Assistant          ECCU6
Iftikhar Khalil                          Consultant              QAG
James Sayle Moose                        Consultant            AFTEG
Kishore Nadkarni                         Consultant            EASCS
Shinya Nishimura                     Financial Analyst          ECSS2
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora              Senior Operations Officer      ECSS2
Masaki Takahashi                    Sr Power Engineer          ETWEN
Yukari Tsuchiya                         Temporary              ECSSD
Sameer Shukla                         Sr Energy Spec.           ECSS2




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                    71.74
  FY05                                                                   142.77
  FY06                                                                   311.84
  FY07                                                                     0.00


                                            11
  FY08                            0.00
                  Total:        526.35
Supervision/NCO
  FY04                            0.03
  FY05                            0.00
  FY06                            0.00
  FY07                          119.88
  FY08                          118.65
                  Total:        238.56




                           12
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents




                                    13
                                                                                                                                                                                   TU R K E Y
                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS*

                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                         *Province names are the same as their capitals.


                             26°E                              28°E                           30°E                             32°E                        34°E                              36°E                                      38°E                                                                    R US S I AN F E DE R AT I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 US AN         DE        ON
                   B U L G ARIA
                     ULG A R I A
                                                                                                                                          Blac k Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0          50         100      150       200 Kilometers
                                                  To
                               To               Burgas
              42°N          Kurdzhali                                                                                                                                                                     0                  50            100                 150 Miles                                                     GEORGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE OR GI A                                  42°N

                                       Edirne                                                                                                                                        Sinop
                                                  Kirklareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                            Istanbul Strait                                   Bartin                                                                                                                                                                    Batumi
                                                                             (Bosphorus)
                                                                                                              Zonguldak                                                       Ku
                                                                                                                                                                                   zey
                     CE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                        Tekirdag                                                                                                                                                          Samsun                                                                                               Artvin        Kur
                                                                              Istanbul                                                                     Kastamonou                       Ana                                                                                                                                                 To
                 EE




                              To
                            Komatini                      Sea of
                                                                                  Kocaeli
                                                                                   (Izmit)                     Düzce
                                                                                                                                        Karabük
                                                                                                                                                           Devr
                                                                                                                                                               ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                  dolu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dag                  Ordu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Trabzon                                        Ardahan             Kirovakan               AZER-
            GR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lari                                                     Rize
                                                         Marmara
                                                                         Yalova
                                                                                                     Sakarya                                                                                                                                       Giresun                                                                                                         BAIJAN
                                                                                                                        Bolu                                             il                                                                                                                 ruh                                     Kars
                                                                                                     (Adapazari)                                       Çankiri        Kiz           Amasya                                                                                                Ço                                                      ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                                     Çorum                                                  Kelki
              40°N
                              Çanakkale                                                       Bilecik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t                      Gümüshane                                                                                                        40°N
             Çanakkale                                                   Bursa                                                                                                                                      Tokat                                                           Bayburt                          Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s                          Agri Dagi
               Strait                                                                                            Sakar ya                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (5166 m)
            (Dardanelles)                                                                                                                                                                           erek                                                                                                                                    Igdir
                                            Balikesir                                                Eskisehir                                                                                   Cek                                                                                                                                Agri
                                                                                                                            ANKARA                                                                                                                                       Erzincan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Erzurum
                                                                                                                                                     Kirikkale
                                                                                                                                                                              Yozgat                                         Sivas                      t
                                                                              Kütahya                                                                                                                                                               Fira                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Maku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AZER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    zil
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ki
                                                                                                                                                     Kirsehir                                                                                                  Tunceli
                                                                                                    Afyon                                                                                                                                                                       Bingöl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mus
                               Izmir
                                                Manisa
                                                                            Usak
                                                                                                                                       Tuz
                                                                                                                                       Gölü                 Nevsehir                                                                                      Elazig                         Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ra   t                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Van       Van
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salmas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                      Aksehir
              38°N
                                                                                                                       Gölü
                                                                                                                                                Aksaray
                                                                                                                                                                                       Kayseri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bitlis                                    REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Malatya
                                                 Aydin                                        Hoyran
                                                                                               Gölü                                                              Nigde                                                                                                               Diyarbakir                      Siirt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRAN
                                                               Denizli                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Batman                                                   To
                                                                                                        Baysehir            Konya                                                                                                                Adiyaman                                                                                                  Oroumieh
                                                                                     Burdur                Gölü                                                                                                    Kahraman                                                                           Tigris                            Hakkari
                                                                                                    Isparta                                                                                                          Maras                                                                                       Sirnak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                               yh
                                                                                                                                                                                        n




                                                  Mugla                                                                                                                                                   Ce                                            ates                                  Mardin
                                                                                                                                                                                     yha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Euph                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                   Se




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dahuk
                      GR




                                                                                                                                       Gö      Karaman                                  Osmaniye                                     Gaziantep                 Sanliurfa                                        To Damir
                                                                                          Antalya                                         ks                                                                                                                                                                      Kabu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                ri
                            EE




                                                                                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                                    Adana
                                  E                                                                   Gulf of                                          g   la          Icel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kilis                                                     Al Hasakah
                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33501R2
                                                                                                      Antalya                                   s   Da               (Mersin)                                                                                                                                                                 I R AQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AQ
                                                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                                                       To r
              36°N                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                               Hatay (Antakya)                          Aleppo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SYRIAN       AB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SY RIA N A R A B
JULY 2008




                                                          Mediterranean Sea
                                                28°E                             30°E                                  32°E                            34°E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To Ladhiqiyah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUBL I C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUB L                                                                   42°E                          44°E
