E636
May 2003
Annex 15: Environmental Framework
Ecuador: National System of Protected Areas
Introduction
The proposed GEF supported National System of Protected Areas in Ecuador Program aims at
strengthening the NSPA through improving the legal, institutional and financial foundations and
capacities for the integrated, participatory management of PAs. The project components are not
expected to have any significant negative impacts on the environment. Field construction carried
out by PAs staff are small scale, involving the construction of offices, campsites, visitor services,
housing for the park rangers and maintenance of tourist trails. Once concessions of services such
as tourism take place, there may be impacts from the construction of ecotourism lodges,
improvement of access roads and interpretation trails. Natural resources management activities
(e.g. agro-ecological production, sustainable harvesting of non-timber products such as medicinal
plants activities) are not expected to have any significant impacts, since they will be developed to
recover degraded areas and to ensure native forest conservation.
Although the construction of small infrastructure will not cause major impacts, it is desirable to
follow basic procedures to measure such impacts and implement mitigation measures and it will
require careful planning and zoning.
Potential Environmental Impacts
Small Infrastructure
Specific civil works will be undertaken in the PAs to build management offices, main and support
campsites to set up surveillance, housing for rangers, tourist lodging. Most of them involve small
constructions and basic infrastructure, and will be usually located in the buffer zones of the
protected areas.
Natural vegetation is one of the most sensitive elements affected by building and infrastructure
works. The existing vegetation has to be cut down and rooted out in the construction sites.
However this will have a limited impact in the Protected Areas, because of the small scale of the
proposed infrastructure.
Road and Trail Maintenance
The repair of existing access roads and trails could lead to limited deforestation of the natural
vegetation and might also potentially affect wildlife.
Ecotourism
The impacts of ecotourism in Protected Areas could be significant, if uncontrolled. These
activities target the most beautiful landscapes, which normally also happen to be the most
vulnerable sites from an environmental standpoint. This affects areas of high natural and visual
value due to footsteps and stomping, all-terrain vehicle tracks, defacing of sites and monuments,
illegal removal of plants and wildlife, materials and artifacts, and crowding. The construction of
facilities for visitors in Protected Areas can attract investment in tourism  and camping
. -  . > 



infrastructures, thus increasing the level of economic activity and its consequent impacts in the
surrounding buffer zones.
Environmental Procedures
Zoning of Management Plans
The environmental impacts described above, should be addressed through the zoning established
in Protected Areas Management Plans. In the case of the Machalilla National Park, the
Management Plan includes zoning maps with a clear identification of sites where small
infrastructure could be constructed. The existing infrastructure such as the visitor center and the
administration office have been constructed in state-owned land located at the buffer zone of the
Park, thus, there has been no direct affectation to private owners or local communities. New
infrastructure will be developed carefully observing the sites identified in the Management Plan
and if new sites are to be identified, the site selection criteria described below will be followed.
In the case of the Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve, a new Management Plan will be
developed under this project. Following a participatory methodology for the preparation of the
management plan, the zoning of the Protected Area will also be subject to consultation with
stakeholders and the sites identified for small infrastructure will be geographically described and
mapped.
Site Selection Criteria
Will include the following steps:
Consultation with local stakeholders. will be part of the overall participatory methodology
applied for the preparation of management plans.
Environmental Screening.
The sites identified for the construction of small infrastructure will be screened for the following
aspects:
a) Encroachment or reduction of natural vegetation;
b) Potentially unacceptable nuisances such as dust, solid and liquid wastes, construction
machinery; and,
c) Potential issues related to natural hazards such as floods or instability.
As far as possible, selected sites should provide opportunities for environmental enhancement and
the promotion of environmentally sustainable technologies and concepts. The architectural
designs should incorporate and reinforce the criteria of environmentally friendly buildings. The
feasibility of incorporating these aspects into the design should be analyzed during the
architectural end engineering designs.
Identification of Impacts and Mitigation Measures: In order to significantly reduce adverse
environmental impacts, the most feasible and cost-effective measures will be proposed. This will
allow to: i) identify all anticipated significant adverse impacts; and ii) describe and develop
technical details of each mitigation measure, including an estimation of potential impacts of these
measures.



Environmental Rules for Contractors
Environmental rules will be incorporated in the bidding documents or contracts and will cover the
following aspects:
a) the maintenance of systems of collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes;
including recycling systems and the classification of materials;
b) materials procurement guidelines to avoid environmentally hazardous materials of the
collection of construction materials from sensitive areas;
c) prohibition of hunting, fishing, animal capture, plant collection or burning of vegetation.
Institutional Arrangements
The Directorate of Environmental Control (DEC) in coordination with the DBPA will be
responsible for screening, approving and monitoring small infrastructure construction in the PAs,
according to the following procedures:
a) The DBPA and staff of the two protected areas were construction of infrastructure will
take place will first identify and must establish the infrastructure needs for each protected
area (housing, interpretation centers, roads, etc.), following the Management Plan. Then,
together they will define the priorities for construction, and evaluate the budget available
for the planned infrastructure works.
b) The alternative locations (at least two) for the infrastructure construction, evaluated on
their technical and financial merits will be submitted to the consideration of the DBPA
authorities and to the DEC at the Ministry of the Environment for final approval.
c) The DBPA jointly with the DEC will supervise compliance with environmental
procedures. They will approve the studies done within the environmental analysis
framework and supervise the implementation of the mitigation measures agreed upon.



