RP1 57
May 2003
Aiinex 14: Process Framework for mitigating Potential Livelihood Impacts
Ecuador: National System of Protected Areas Project
Summary. The project National System of Protected Areas seeks to consolidate and improve
conservation efforts in three priority protected areas. The activities supported by the project for
the conservation of biodiversity and tropical forests involve the empowerment of main
stakeholders throughout local participation on environmental management and strengthening the
national capacity for establishing process of sustainable development. The main goals of this
project are to support new institutional arrangements and the administration through capacity
building o01 financial and administrative management; to develop institutional arrangements to
enable participatory management; to introduce financing mechanisms to help ensure
sustainability; and to establish a Protected Areas Trust Fund to cover recurrent costs of the
National System of Protected Areas.
No Physical Displacement. No involuntary physical displacement or relocation of people would
be required to successfully implement NSPA, and none will take place as part of the project
implementation. This is consistent with the government practice on Protected Areas management.
Potential Impacts on Livelihoods. The possibility remains that in order to consolidate and
renew proLected areas management some NSPA activities might affect the current livelihoods of
people living within the PAs, or in their buffers zones. This Pr6cess Framework delineates the
criteria and measures which NSPA will follow in such cases to ensure that the entitled, affected
persons are assisted to restore, replace or improve their livelihood in a approach which maintains
the environmental sustainability of the Protected Areas. In all such cases, the NSPA will ensure
that project actions related to peoples' livelihoods will be consistent with the World Bank
Safeguard Policies on Involuntary Resettlements ( OD.4.30), Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) and
Natural Habitats ( OP 4.40) and also the Ecuadorian Law.
Indigenous Territories and Protected Areas. Component 2 of the project will promote the
participatory management according to the specific social and political conditions of each
protected area. The Project will address all indigenous issues in accordance with the World
Bank's Safeguard Policies on Indigenous Peoples ( OD.40) as well as with the Ecuadorian Law.
The project will seek to develop a constructive relation with the local indigenous communities
living in the selected protected areas. The preparation and/ or update of the PA management plans
will give especial importance to the integration of the priorities and demands established by the
local and indigenous population through their development plans. More details are provided in
Annex 13: Indigenous Peoples Development Framework.
Impact Scenarios Ruled Out. Based on the social assessments' findings conducted during the
project preparation, the implementation of NSPA could materially affect the existing livelihoods
of non-indigenous Ecuadorians (such as colonists), which live within the boundaries of protected
areas and use their natural resources. This Framework process focuses primarily on explaining
how the project would address the livelihood issues of non-indigenous people living within PAs
or in the protected areas buffer zones. Other livelihood related issues were addressed during the
project preparation and established as non-relevant for the case of the project's Process
Framework. These ruled-out scenarios include:
a. 'Small and medium size agricultural activities adjacent to or nearby the protected areas
could affect the sustainable management of the protected areas in the long run. The
project design includes a number of activities that will foster participation and benefits to
EXO                    T ^



local communities through the management plans, according to each context. However
the NSPA would not impose involuntary restrictions on land uses outside the protected
areas;
b. The project will work with cooperatives of livelihood fisheries in Machalilla National
Park; the intervention of NSPA will underline the principle of strengthening self-
sustained management;
c. The project will support pilot concessions for services that could improve the incomes
of local communities. Training and technical support will be provided to  local
cornmittees and community members for capacity building on resources management
and follow- up pilot activities.
All these activities will be monitored to permit an objective assessment of its usefulness.
Non-indigenous people within Protected Areas. The procedures below will apply to non-
indigenous people who have occupied PAs land. The NSPA will support   participatory
mechanisms: the Participatory Management Committee (PMCs) and Technical Support Groups to
enhance the communication and coordination among local stakeholders and the pertinent issues
will be part of the Management Plans. Throughout the preparation of the Management Plans, the
PMCs' members will discuss and define the eligibility of project-funded, livelihood-related
benefits.
Procedure for Consolidation of Protected Areas. The Management Plans will include all the
pertinent information related to the local livelihood issues of the non-indigenous people. The
following are the main steps identified:
a. Active participation of different stakeholders directly and indirectly
involved in the NSPA will be sought
b. The Participatory Management Committees will become focal points
where participatory process will be developed.
c. All primary beneficiaries will have the opportunity the become part of the
PMCs. Primary beneficiaries will be those directly responsible for the
implementation of selected activities within the framework of Management
Plans. They will be initially identified through the preparation of the MPs
and will be selected once the programs/activities to be implemented are
agreed upon.
d. Management Plans will be implemented, in the case of Machalilla National
Park, and designed and implemented in the case of Cotacachi- Cayapas)
during the first year based upon ecological and socio-economic assessments
of the protected areas and the buffer zones. The participatory Management
Plans will include: i) conservation and management objectives of the
protected areas;  ii)co-management arrangements; iii) procedure for
negotiating any future participatory co-management agreements; iv) the rules
concerning the natural resources use and restricted activities on identified
zones; v) other pertinent information
e. The   co-management arrangements    will depend   upon  the  local
circumstances and framework of the project NSPA activities in each PA, it
will include: i) definition of the pilot activities; ii) technical assistance or
other to eligible people pursuing altemative livelihoods which do not damage
the protected areas.



Conflict Resolution Mechanisms. An assessment of existing and potential conflicts related to
the use of natural resources within or nearby the selected protected areas will be carried out prior
the prepara,tion of Management Plans. This evaluation will allow the design of mechanisms for
resolving the identified conflicts, which will be discussed and defined under by the PMCs.
The early establishment of the Participatory Management Committees will foster a systematic
discussion related to the use of natural resources at an early stage of project implementation.
These PMCs will serve as spaces for the development of coalitions and social alliances for
protected areas conservation and will work in the establishment of a shared vision in regards to
the protected area. This vision will be elaborated through an ample local dialogue that should
result in participatory and equitable strategies.
As a result of this process, the Management Plans will be implemented under the principle that
the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources within or nearby Protected Areas is a
joint effort between the Ministry of Environment and the local communities as important and
strategic partners.
Implementation responsibilities. Depending on the specific tasks, the government
responsibilities outlined above will be carried out either by NSPA staff or consultants, and the
National Environmental Fund (NEF) in partnership with the MoE. The environmental studies for
small worlks in protected areas will be contracted and supervised by the MoE.. The technical
assistance for alternative livelihood will be provided by consultants or NGOs appointed by the
MoE, and/or supported by specialized government agencies in close coordination with MoE..
Monitoring and Evaluation. NSPA would monitor de progress of the specific steps noted above
in the selected protected areas. The FAN will carefully review the progress achieved, in
consultation with the MoE and the World Bank, and will make any appropriate adjustments
during the Mid-term evaluation. The World Bank has also indicated its intention to monitor
closely the livelihood-related and other social aspects of NSPA; it is anticipated that both
environmental and social specialists from the World Bank will make at least two supervision
visits per year.
Two beneificiary assessments will be undertaken, at mid-term and at the end of project
implementation. In addition, "ad-hoc" interviews will be conducted with local leaders during
supervision missions.
More specifically, the social monitoring will include two key aspects to be measured during the
period of irnplementation of the project:
a. Significant (beneficial or adverse) project-related impacts on local livelihoods. This
information will be directly provided by representatives of local communities to the
PM[Cs;
b. Outcomes of livelihood-related measures agreed during the preparation of Management
Plans and reflected in co-management agreements.



