Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NO. TF051537 
 
Global Environment Facility 
TRUST FUND GRANT
 
AGREEMENT 
 
(National System of Protected Areas Project - MAE) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency
 
of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated April 17, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NO. TF051537 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
(Ecuador) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (the GEF), in respect of Grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund (the GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development; 
 
WHEREAS (B) following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements 
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 94-2), which, inter alia, established the 
GEF Trust Fund, authorized the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund; 
 
WHEREAS (C) the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998 of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank; 
 
WHEREAS (D) Ecuador (through the Ministry of the Environment (
Ministerio 
del Medio Ambiente 
–
MAE)
 
having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Parts A, B and D of the Project, 
and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution No. 94-2 and to be funded from the resources of the GEF 
Trust Fund; 
 
WHEREAS (E) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, also 
acting as Implementing Agency of the GEF, and 
Fondo Ambiental Nacional
 (FAN) (the 
FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make available 
additional GEF resources, on a grant basis, for the carrying out of Part C of the Project in 
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to three million three-hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR3,300,000) (the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant), but only on 
condition that Ecuador agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS (F) Ecuador has received from the Government of the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands (the Netherlands), a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an aggregate amount 
equivalent to approximately $2,340,000  to assi
st in financing Ecuador’s National System 
of Protected Areas (
Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas 
-
SNAP) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement entered into between Ecuador and the Netherlands 
on November 30, 2001 (the Dutch Grant Agreement); 
 WHEREAS (G) Ecuador has received from the Government of Germany 
(Germany), a grant (the German Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately 
$8,330,000 to assist in financing SNAP on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement entered into between Ecuador and Germany on March 15, 2000 (the German 
Grant Agreement); 
 
WHEREAS (H) Ecuador expects to receive from the Inter-American Development 
Bank (IDB), a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to approximately $5,000,000 to 
assist in financing SNAP and its buffer zones on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between Ecuador and the IDB (the IDB Loan Agreement);  
  WHEREAS (I) the Bank has received a letter, dated February 26, 2002, from 
Ecuador describing Ecuador’s program for SNAP during the period of 2001 to 2010 (the 
SNAP Program), and setting forth Ecuador’s plan of actions over the medium and longer 
term to achieve the strengthening of SNAP; and 
 WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant to Ecuador upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) (8), (9), (10), (14), (15), 
(16), (18) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Section 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
 
(x) Article 
XI; 
and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: “the term ‘Special Drawing Rights’ and the symbol 
‘SDR’ mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) thereof, and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
Implementing Agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
 
(iii) 
the term “the Borrower”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means Ecuador; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the 
account to be open by the Bank on its books in the name of 
Ecuador to which the amount of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant 
will be credited; and 
 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph (q) shall be added after subparagraph (p) in 
Section 6.02 as follows: 
 
“(q) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant 
would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “Administration Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
(b) “BCE” means 
Banco Central del Ecuador
,
Ecuador’s Central Bank; 
(c) “Biodiversity Legislation” means Ecuador’s proposed biodiversity 
legislation submitted to Ecuador’s Congress on November 30, 2001; 
(d) “DBAP” means 
Dirección de Biodiversidad y Areas Protegidas
,
Ecuador’s Directorate of Biodiversity and Protected Areas within MAE; 
(e) “Draft SNAP Strategic Plan” means Ecuador’s strategic plan for 
SNAP, dated October 1999, that contains the strategic objectives, priorities and 
directions for SNAP; 
(f) 
“Environmental Impact Framework” means Ecuador’s 
environmental impact framework for the Project dated, August 15, 2002, that 
contains specific environmental rules and procedures for Project implementation 
in the Selected Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  6
-
5
-
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means Ecuador’s fiscal year which commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year; 
(h) “Implementation Agreement” means the agreement entered into 
between MAE and FAN on April 15, 2002 for the purposes of regulating certain 
matters of common interest in connection with the implementation of Part C of the 
Project, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Implementation Agreement; 
(i) “Indigenous Peoples Development Framework” means Ecuador’s 
indigenous peoples development framework for the Project, dated August 15, 
2002, that contains the principles and guidelines for the preparation of local 
development plans for indigenous peoples living in the Selected Protected Areas 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(j)  “Key MAE Personnel” means the personnel referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(k) “MAE Annual Work Program” means any of the annual work 
programs referred to in Section 3.08 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(l) “MAE Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(m) “MAE Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(n)  “MAE-FMR” means each MAE financial monitoring report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o) “MAE Operational Manual” means MAE’s operational manual for 
the Project, dated October 11, 2002, that contains provisions on: (i) detailed 
arrangements for the carrying out of Parts A, B and D of the Project; and (ii) 
requirements for the carrying out of any civil works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(p) “MAE Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring 
and evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives set forth in 
the letter from Ecuador to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter); 
Page  7
-
6
-
(q) 
“MAE Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(r)  Management Plan” means any management plan to be prepared for a 
Selected Protected Area as provided in the MAE Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(s) “Participation Arrangement” means any of the arrangements to be 
entered into between MAE and a Participatory Management Committee (as 
hereinafter defined), pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to any Participation 
Arrangement; 
(t) “Participatory Management Committee” means any participatory 
management committee to be established within a Selected Protected Area (as 
hereinafter defined) as provided in the MAE Operational Manual; 
(u) “Participatory Strategy” means Ecuador’s participatory strategy for 
the Project, dated August 15, 2002, that contains the principles and guidelines for 
ensuring the participation of communities in the management of Selected 
Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined); 
(v) “Process Framework” means Ecuador’s process framework for the 
Project, dated August 15, 2002, that contains the rules and procedures for 
mitigating potential impacts in the livelihood of communities in the Selected 
Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined); 
(w) “Project Implementation Plan” means the Project implementation 
plan, dated August 27, 2002; 
(x) “Protected Areas Legal Framework” means Ecuador’s Forestry Law 
No. 74 of 1981, published in 
Registro Oficial
 No. 64 on August 24, 1981, and its 
regulations, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(y) “Selected Protected Area” means any of Ecuador’s protected areas 
listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and any other protected area which may be 
acceptable to the Bank in addition to, or in substitution of, the above protected 
areas; and 
(z) “Stakeholder” means any civil society organization operating in 
Ecuador interested in protected areas management, biodiversity conservation and 
Page  8
-
7
-
sustainable use, including local communities, non-governmental organizations, 
and academic and scientific institutions. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed a reference to MAE. 
ARTICLE II
 
The MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to Ecuador, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million eight-hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A, 
B
and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust 
Fund Grant. 
  Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify Ecuador of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. Ecuador declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out, through MAE, Parts A, B and D of the Project, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, administrative, 
financial, ecological, environmental and conservation practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project; and 
 
(b)   
(i) 
assist FAN in complying with all the obligations of FAN set 
forth or referred to in the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and (ii) not take or 
Page  9
-
8
-
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the compliance by 
FAN of any obligation of FAN set forth or referred to in the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as Ecuador and the Bank may otherwise agree, Ecuador shall 
carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project in accordance with: (i) the Administration 
Agreement and the Implementation Agreement; (ii) the Environmental Impact 
Framework; (iii) the Process Framework; (iv) the Indigenous Peoples Development 
Framework; (v) the Participatory Strategy; (vi) the MAE Operation Manual; and (vii) the 
Project Implementation Plan, as applicable, so as to achieve the MAE Performance 
Indicators. 
(b) 
 
If any provision of the MAE Operational Manual or the Project 
Implementation Plan is inconsistent with a provision of this Agreement, the provisions of 
this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for Parts A, B and D of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. (a) At all times during the execution of the Project, Ecuador 
(through MAE) shall maintain: 
(i) 
an independent review panel with membership structure and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including the following 
responsibilities: (A) to review Project implementation reports 
and audits; and (B) to monitor and evaluate overall Project 
implementation; and 
(ii) 
DBAP responsible for overall Project planning, coordination, 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, including: (A) preparing 
MAE Annual Work Programs; (B) issuing Project 
implementation guidelines for the Selected Protected Areas; (C) 
maintaining the Project impact monitoring system; and (D) 
evaluating the procurement and financial management processes 
of FAN as administrator of Parts A, B and D of the Project 
pursuant to the Administration Agreement. 
(b) 
Ecuador shall ensure that DBAP is staffed, at all times during the 
execution of the Project, by core professional staff in numbers and with experience and 
Page  10
-
9
-
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, and selected in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank, all as prescribed in the MAE Operational Manual. 
Section 3.05. For the first year of Project implementation and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, Ecuador (through MAE) shall enter into an agreement with FAN, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of ensuring the 
administration of Parts A, B and D of the Project by FAN, said agreement to provide, 
inter alia: 
(a) 
the obligation of FAN to administer Parts A, B and D of the Project in 
accordance with: 
(i) 
 
the MAE Operational Manual; 
 
(ii) 
 
the Project Implementation Plan; and 
 
(iii) 
 
the applicable MAE Annual Work Program; and 
(b) 
the functions and responsibilities of FAN in connection with the 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services, and the financial management 
for Parts A, B and D of the Project. 
Section 3.06. (a) Prior to the approval of any proposed civil work to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant, Ecuador (through MAE) shall 
apply the Environmental Impact Framework, in order to: 
(i) 
carry out an environmental screening and assessment of such 
proposed civil works, as prescribed in the MAE Operational 
Manual; and 
(ii) 
prepare recommendations for the prevention, mitigation and 
remediation of any potential environmental damage arising from 
the implementation of such proposed civil works. 
(b) 
During the implementation of any civil works, Ecuador shall carry out 
the recommendations of the environmental assessment referred to in subparagraph (a) (ii) 
above, as prescribed in the MAE Operational Manual, and reflect such recommendations 
in the bidding documents for the proposed civil works. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 3.07. Not later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, Ecuador 
(through DBAP) shall: 
(a) 
start the implementation of the Participatory Strategy in each Selected 
Protected Area for the purposes of ensuring the participation of each Participatory 
Management Committee in the implementation of Parts A, B and D of the Project; and 
(b) 
pursuant to the Project Implementation Plan, furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, Management Plans for each Selected Protected Area, in order to 
determine the eligibility of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the MAE 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 3.08. (a) Ecuador (through DBAP) shall: 
 
(i) 
not later than November 15 of each year, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and approval, a proposed annual work program 
prepared in consultation with representatives of the 
Stakeholders; such program to specify the activities to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant 
during the following calendar year for the purposes of the 
implementation of Parts A, B and D of the Project; and 
 
(ii)  
upon
the Bank’s approval, carry out such MAE Annual Work 
Program, as approved by the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any MAE Annual Work Program 
if the Bank has determined that Ecuador is not carrying out the Project as provided in this 
Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, satisfactory to the Bank, have been taken 
therefor. 
 
Section 3.09. Ecuador (through DBAP) shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the MAE Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of Parts A, B and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and 
 
(b) 
not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in March 31, 2003, furnish to the Bank progress reports on the 
execution of Parts A, B and D of the Project during the preceding calendar semester, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.10. Ecuador (through DBAP) shall: 
Page  12
-
11
-
(a) 
not later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in November 30, 2003, hold a Project annual review with the Bank, such review to 
be based on the reports referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have reasonably 
determined that the progress in the execution of Parts A, B and D of the Project or in the 
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken all 
such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient 
execution of such Parts of the Project or the timely achievement of its objectives. 
 
Section 3.11. Ecuador (through DBAP) shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2006, contract beneficiary 
assessments of Parts A, B and D of the Project with independent consultants of 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, such assessments to determine overall progress and outcomes of 
Parts A, B and D of the Project; 
 
(b) 
not later than September 30, 2004 and September 30, 2006, as the case 
may be, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, the findings and 
recommendations of each such assessment by said consultants; and 
 
(c) 
not later than November 30, 2004 and November 30, 2006, as the case 
may be, review with FAN and representatives of the Stakeholders the results of each such 
assessment taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
 
Section 3.12. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Ecuador (through DBAP) shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between Ecuador and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of Project objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Ecuador on said plan. 
 
Section 3.13. MAE shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under 
the Administration Agreement and the Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of Ecuador, the Bank and MAE, and to accomplish the purposes of the 
MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MAE shall not 
assign, amend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Administration Agreement or the 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) Ecuador (through MAE) shall maintain financial management 
systems, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Parts A, B and D of the Project. 
(b) 
Ecuador (through MAE) shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the MAE Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested including, as 
part of the information provided in each such report, a 
management letter concerning internal controls; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the MAE 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of MAE-FMRs or statements of 
expenditure, Ecuador (through MAE) shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
Page  14
-
13
-
the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 (iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the MAE-FMRs or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) With regard to Parts A, B and D of the Project and without 
limitation upon Ecuador’s progress reporting obligations set out in Section 3.09 (b) of 
this Agreement, Ecuador (through MAE) shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first MAE-FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each MAE-FMR shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
semester, and shall cover such calendar semester
.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Page  15
-
14
-
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the Protected Areas Legal Framework or any provision thereof shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of Ecuador to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; 
(b) 
the IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by not later 
than June 30, 2004 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if Ecuador establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to Ecuador from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of Ecuador under this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of 
Ecuador to withdraw the proceeds of any grant (including the 
Dutch Grant and the German Grant) or loan (including the IDB 
Loan) made to Ecuador for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreements providing therefor; 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if Ecuador 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of Ecuador to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreements; and 
 
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to Ecuador 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of Ecuador under this Agreement; 
(d) the 
Biodiversity 
Legislation
 
shall have not been approved, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, within two years of this Agreement; and 
(e) 
FAN shall have failed to perform any obligation under the FAN GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date, Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions precedent to the 
Page  16
-
15
-
effectiveness of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Key MAE Personnel shall have been selected; 
(b) 
that the Administration Agreement shall have been executed and delivered 
on behalf of the parties thereto, and is legally binding upon them in 
accordance with its terms; 
(c) 
that financial management arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall 
have been established by MAE and become operational; 
 
(d) 
that the selection process of the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of 
this Agreement shall have been started; and 
 
(e) 
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the FAN GEF Trust 
Fund Gant Agreement (other than those related to this Agreement) shall 
have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date July 17, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of Ecuador; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ecuador is designated as 
representative of Ecuador for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
Ecuador: 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Carrion 
 
Quito, Ecuador 
 
Facsimile: (5932) 501002 
 
For the Bank: 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C.   
 64145 (MCI)
Page  18
-
17
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
 
/s/ Carlos Játiva 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
As an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility 
 
/s/ John Redwood 
 
By 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Part A
.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the MAE 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
MAE GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent
)
%
of 
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) 
Works under Parts 
 
 
160,000 
85% 
 
A, B and D of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods under Parts 
 
 
320,000 
100% of foreign 
 
A, B and D of 
 
 
 
expenditures and 
 
the Project  
 
 
 
85% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
 
1,690,000 
85% 
 
and training under Parts 
 
A, B and D of the Project 
 (including 
audits) 
 
(4) 
MAE Incremental Recurrent Costs 
 
(a) for Project Management 
530,000 
85% 
 
(b) for Selected Protected Areas 
100,000 
85% 
 
________ 
 TOTAL 
 
 
2,800,000 
 
======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Part A of Schedule 1, the terms: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures for goods supplied from the 
territory of any country other than Ecuador (if not sold while within the customs territory 
Page  20
-
19
-
of Ecuador prior to such goods’ acquisition for use under the Project); 
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures for goods supplied from the 
territory of Ecuador (i.e., sold while within the customs territory of Ecuador for such 
goods’ first use under the Project) regardless of those goods’ territory of origin; 
(c) 
“MAE Incremental Recurrent Costs” means MAE incremental recurrent 
costs arising from Project implementation, including: (i) Project related workshops; (ii) 
office space and utilities; (iii) office equipment and supplies; (iv) travel cost and per diem 
of staff; and (v) staff salaries and benefits of the central and regional offices of MAE; and 
(d) 
“training” means training expenditures incurred by MAE in connection 
with the carrying out of Parts A, B and D of the Project, including tuition, travel cost and 
per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of facilities and equipment, and training 
materials. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR280,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (4) of the table in Part 
A.1 of this Section on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve 
(12) months prior to the date of this Agreement but after August 15, 2002. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: 
 
(a) 
goods and works; 
(b) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(c) 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; 
(d) training; 
and 
(e) 
MAE Incremental Recurrent Costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to Ecuador. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Part B
.
MAE Special Account
1. 
Ecuador (through MAE) shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account, in BCE or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including in case of a commercial bank appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that the MAE Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the MAE Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first MAE-FMR referred to in 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from Ecuador for withdrawal on the 
basis of MAE-FMRs, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Bank of a MAE-FMR pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of 
this Agreement, accompanied by a request from Ecuador for withdrawal on the basis of 
MAE-FMRs, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the MAE Special Account shall be made exclusively for MAE 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by Ecuador out of the MAE Special 
Account, Ecuador shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for MAE Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the MAE Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any MAE-FMR does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by Ecuador directly from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if Ecuador shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required 
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) the 
records and accounts for the MAE Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
Page  22
-
21
-
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
MAE-FMRs. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the MAE Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified Ecuador of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of Ecuador to make withdrawals from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant 
to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the MAE Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and 
shall notify Ecuador of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the MAE 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an MAE Eligible Expenditure, 
or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, Ecuador shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the MAE Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
MAE Special Account will not be required to cover payments for MAE Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, Ecuador shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
Ecuador may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the MAE Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the MAE 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of MAE Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of MAE-FMRs 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex the term “MAE Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount of $350,000 to be withdrawn from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into the MAE Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the MAE Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $175,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed SDR350,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the MAE Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the MAE Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the MAE Authorized Allocation, Ecuador shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the MAE Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the MAE Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of Ecuador, 
withdraw from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the MAE 
Special Account such amount as Ecuador shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the MAE Special Account, Ecuador shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the MAE Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, Ecuador shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of Ecuador, 
withdraw from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the MAE 
Special Account such amount as Ecuador shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the MAE Special 
Account for MAE Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the MAE Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
under one or more of the MAE Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the MAE Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
Page  24
-
23
-
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the MAE Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the MAE GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the MAE GEF Trust 
Fund Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to Ecuador.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the MAE Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for MAE 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  25
-
24
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of MAE Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of MAE-FMRs 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to Ecuador, all withdrawals 
from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
MAE Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the MAE Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the MAE 
Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
for deposit into the MAE Special Account shall be supported by a MAE-FMR. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the MAE GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of Ecuador, withdraw from the MAE GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the MAE Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has 
determined, based on the MAE-FMR accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance MAE Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when 
added to the amount indicated by said MAE-FMR to be remaining in the MAE Special 
Account, shall not exceed $500,000. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to ensure the conservation and management of 
Ecuador’s biodiversity for socially sustainable development through the strengthening of 
SNAP. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as Ecuador, FAN and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Institutional Strengthening and Legal Development
Consolidation of DBAP’s role as the regulatory agency for the administration 
and supervision of SNAP by strengthening DBAP’s planning, control and monitoring 
capacities to ensure effective management of Selected Protected Areas, including: 
1. 
updating the Draft SNAP Strategic Plan to coordinate DBAP long-term actions 
under MAE’s institutional framework; 
2. 
preparing a financial and managerial system for DBAP, and implementing said 
system in the Selected Protected Areas; 
3. 
developing a financial strategy for SNAP in two (2) Selected Protected Areas; 
4. 
implementing pilot service concessions in two (2) Selected Protected Areas, 
comprising identification, supervision and evaluation of said concessions, preparation of 
appropriate legal instruments, development of selection criteria and procedures, and 
preparation of bidding documents; 
5. 
designing and implementing a training program for DBAP and the Selected 
Protected Areas’ technical staff; 
6. 
strengthening mechanisms for institutional coordination, participation, technical 
advice and civil society support for SNAP; and 
7. 
developing legal instruments to allow the generation of non-budgetary revenues 
for self-management of the Selected Protected Areas, to promote co-management and 
participation of Stakeholders in decision-making and Selected Protected Areas 
management. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Part B
:
Participatory Management of Selected Protected Areas
Development of participatory management mechanisms consistent with the 
specific conditions of the Selected Protected Areas, including: 
(a) 
development and/or implementation of strategic management plans 
comprising local development plans for indigenous peoples, priority programs and 
actions, as well as administrative mechanisms to implement efficient management;  
(b) 
establishment and strengthening of Participatory Management 
Committees and technical support groups; 
(c) 
operation of environmental interpretation centers; 
(d) 
implementation of control and patrolling programs; and  
(e) 
strengthening the technical and operational capacities of DBPA. 
Part C
:
Sustainable Financing
Establishment and capitalization of a long-term funding mechanism to support 
biodiversity conservation by:  
(a) 
financing the incremental recurrent costs of the Management Plans of the 
Selected Protected Areas; and 
(b) 
covering operational costs of FAN and fund-raising activities. 
Part D
:
Project Monitoring and Evaluation 
Establishment of a system to monitor and evaluate Project implementation  
(including audits), through: 
(a) 
design of SNAP’s information and monitoring system, including 
installation and operation of said system in the Selected Protected Areas and ten (10) 
regional offices of MAE; 
(b) 
development of a methodology to evaluate management efficiency in the 
Selected Protected Areas; 
Page  28
-
27
-
(c) 
design and implementation of a social monitoring system, including 
beneficiary assessments; and 
(d) 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project Implementation Plan. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I, III and IV of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $240,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not 
exceeding in the aggregate $220,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $230,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
Page  30
-
29
-
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully.
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; and (ii) the first contract for 
goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Parts C.2 and C.3 above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the supplier or contractor, or the 
execution of such contract under shopping procedures or 
procurement of small works, Ecuador shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of such contract procured under shopping 
procedures or procurement of small works, Ecuador shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  31
-
30
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of Sections II, 
III and IV of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost more than $100,000 but 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract or less, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  32
-
31
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, and not exceeding in the aggregate $600,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.  Least Cost Selection
Services rendered by consulting firms for assignments of a standard or routine 
nature estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and not exceeding in 
the aggregate $400,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and not exceeding in the aggregate $900,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more; and (ii) the first contract for the 
employment of a consulting firm to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.2 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  33
-
32
-
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III
.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement 
of goods under Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule: 
 
1. 
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability 
and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the 
specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If 
any factor additional to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid 
evaluation, such factor or factors and the quantified manner in which they will be applied 
for purposes of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the 
bidding documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount 
or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
2. 
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a contract to 
be subsequently awarded. 
 
3. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Ecuadorian 
authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
 
4. 
Ecuador shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Page  34
-
33
-
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth 
in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
 
2. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any 
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person. 
 
3. 
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services, 
to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for 
Ecuadorian firms. 
 
4. 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees 
to Ecuadorian Con
sultants’ Association that are different from those required for 
Ecuadorian consultants. 
 
5. 
No consultant financed by the proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant shall, 
at the time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold 
civil service office or any other position in an agency of Ecuador or any Ecuadorian 
public sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into any such 
office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services. 
 
Section IV
.
Special Approvals
With respect to any procurement of goods and works, and any employment of 
consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant, any 
approval of bidding documents or requests of proposals or contracts required under the 
laws of the Borrower shall be given only by MAE. 
Page  35
-
34
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Selected Protected Areas 
 
Cuyabeno Fauna Reserve 
Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological Reserve 
Machalilla National Park  
Sangay National Park 
Yasuni National Park  
Podocarpus National Park 
Sumaco Napo Galeras National Park 
Manglares Cayapas-Mataje  Ecological Reserve 
Mache-Chindul Ecological Reserve 
Page  36
-
35
-
WB76939 
M:\Varela 2002\Ecuador\National System of Protected Areas (SNAP)\ECUADOR- NSPA (MAE GEF Grant Agreement- 
Final).doc 
October 23, 2002 11:55 AM
 
