Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NO. TF 051486 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(National System of Protected Areas Project - FAN) 
 
between  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency
 
of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
FONDO AMBIENTAL NACIONAL 
 
Dated April 17, 2003
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NO. TF051486 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an Implementing 
Agency of the Global Environment Facility (the GEF) and FONDO AMBIENTAL 
NACIONAL (FAN), in respect of Grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund (the GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development; 
 
WHEREAS (B) following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements 
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 94-2), which, inter alia, established the 
GEF Trust Fund, authorized the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund; 
 
WHEREAS (C) the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998 of the Executive Directors 
of the Bank; 
 
WHEREAS (D) FAN, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to the MAE GEF Trust Fund Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined) (the Project), has requested assistance from the resources of the GEF 
Trust Fund for funding Part C of the Project, and said request having been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution No. 94-2 and to be 
funded from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund; 
 
WHEREAS (E) by an agreement of even date herewith entered into between the 
Republic of Ecuador (Ecuador) and the Bank, also acting as an Implementing Agency of 
the GEF (the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make 
available additional GEF resources, on a grant basis, for the carrying out of Parts A, B and 
D
of the Project in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to two million eight-hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000) (the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement), but only on condition that FAN agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS (F) by a letter dated August 15, 2002, from Ecuador to the Bank, 
Ecuador has agreed that resources from the GEF Trust Fund be provided directly to FAN 
under the terms and conditions of this Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS (G) the Bank has received a letter dated February 26, 2002 from 
Ecuador describing Ecuador’s program for its national system of protected areas (
Sistema 
Nacional de Areas Protegidas
 - SNAP) for the period 2001 to 2010 (the SNAP Program), 
and setting forth Ecuador’s plan of actions over the medium and longer term to achieve the 
development and strengthening of SNAP; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant to FAN upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph 
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) (8), (9), (10), (14), (15), 
(16), (18) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(x) Article 
XI; 
and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: “the term ‘Special Drawing Rights’ and the symbol 
‘SDR’ mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (f) and the last use of such term 
in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
Implementing Agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Borrower,” wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means FAN; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan Agreement,” wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan” and “loan,” wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(vi) 
the term “Loan Account,” wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the 
account to be open by the Bank on its books in the name of FAN 
to which the amount of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant will be 
credited; 
 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph (q) shall be added after subparagraph (p) in 
Section 6.02 as follows: 
 
“(q) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; 
and 
 
(viii) 
Section 10.04 is modified to read: 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
“Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which 
is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled 
by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration 
Rules in force on the date of this Agreement. The place of 
arbitration shall be Washington, D.C. In the event of a conflict 
between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.”. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Asset Management Agreement” means the asset management agreement 
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Asset Manager” means the asset manager referred to in Section 3.06 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“FAN Annual Work Program” means any of the annual work programs 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement;  
(d) 
“FAN By-Laws” means the by-laws of FAN, approved by Executive 
Decree No. 2820 dated July 11, 2002, published in 
Registro Oficial
 No. 622 on July 19, 
2002, as amended to the date of this Agreement, which determine the operational 
framework for the exercise of the powers, duties and functions of the corporate bodies of 
FAN; 
(e) 
“FAN Charter” means the charter of FAN, approved by Executive Decree 
No. 3409, dated January 16, 1996, published in 
Registro Oficial
 No. 865 on January 18, 
1996, as amended to the date of this Agreement, which determines the powers, duties and 
functions of the corporate bodies of FAN; 
(f) 
“FAN Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g) 
“FAN Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, services 
and recurrent costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(h) 
“FAN-FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared by FAN 
in accordance with Section 4.03 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“FAN Operational Manual” means the operational manual of FAN 
approved by FAN’s Board of Directors on May 15, 2002, that provides: (i) detailed 
arrangements for the carrying out of Part C of the Project; (ii) the procedures and criteria 
for the preparation and approval of the FAN Annual Work Programs; and (iii) operating 
procedures for the investment and utilization of the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund 
Grant; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(j) 
“FAN Performance Indicators” means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating the progress of FAN towards the attainment of Project objectives set forth in the 
letter from FAN to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter); 
(k) 
“FAN Procurement Strengthening Action Plan” means FAN’s 
procurement strengthening action plan for the Project, dated June 17, 2002; 
(l) 
“FAN Special Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1 of 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Investment Strategy” means the investment strategy to be approved by 
FAN’s Board of Directors for the investment of the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund 
Grant allocated to Category (4) of the table in Part A.1 of Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement pursuant to the Asset Management Agreement; and 
(n) 
“Key FAN Personnel” means the personnel referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to FAN, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million three-hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,300,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the capital endowment of FAN and for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
services and recurrent costs required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify FAN of such later date. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. FAN declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate managerial, administrative, financial, ecological, 
environmental and conservation practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part C of the Project. 
 
Section 3.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as FAN and the Bank may otherwise agree, FAN shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with: (i) the SNAP Program; (ii) the Implementation Agreement; 
(iii) the FAN Operational Manual; (iv) the Project Implementation Plan; (v) the FAN 
Procurement Strengthening Action Plan; and (vi) the applicable FAN Annual Work 
Program, so as to achieve the FAN Performance Indicators. 
 
(b) 
If any provision of the FAN Operational Manual or the Project 
Implementation Plan is inconsistent with a provision of this Agreement, the provisions of 
this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. At all times during the execution of Part C of the Project, FAN shall 
ensure that FAN is staffed by key professional staff in numbers and with experience and 
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and selected in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank, all as prescribed in the FAN Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) FAN shall: 
 
(i) 
not later than November 15 of each year, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and approval, a proposed annual work program 
approved by FAN’s Board of Directors, such program to specify 
the activities to be financed by FAN out of the investment income 
deriving from the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to Category (4) of the table in Part A.1 of Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement during the following calendar year 
for the purposes of the implementation of Part C of the Project; 
and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
upon
the Bank’s approval, carry out such FAN Annual Work 
Program, as approved by the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any such Annual Work Program if 
the Bank has determined that FAN is not carrying out Part C of Section I of Schedule 1 of 
the Project as provided in this Agreement, and no appropriate remedial actions, 
satisfactory to the Bank, have been taken therefor. 
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of managing the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust 
Fund Grant allocated to Category (4) of the table in Part A.1 of Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement in accordance with the Investment Strategy, at all times during the 
execution of the Project, FAN shall: 
 
(a) 
retain the services of an internationally recognized asset manager of 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
ensure that the agreement with the Asset Manager contains terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the obligation of the Asset Manager to: 
 
(i) 
administer the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
accordance with the Investment Strategy; 
 
(ii) 
not later than one (1) month after the end of each quarter during 
the implementation of Part C of the Project, furnish to FAN and 
the Bank quarterly reports regarding management performance, 
capital value, asset allocation, and investment income with respect 
to the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant; and 
 
(iii) 
abide by the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.07. FAN shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under 
the Implementation Agreement and the Asset Management Agreement in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of Ecuador, the Bank and FAN, and to accomplish the purposes of 
the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FAN shall 
not assign, amend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Implementation Agreement or the 
Asset Management Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.08. FAN shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than June 30, 2003, furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
approval, a fund-raising strategy to increase FAN’s capital endowment; and 
 
(b)  
upon the Bank’s approval, carry out such fund-raising strategy as 
approved by the Bank. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.09. FAN shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the FAN Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of Part C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(b) 
not later than September 30 and March 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in March 31, 2003, furnish to the Bank progress reports on the 
execution of Part C of the Project during the preceding calendar semester, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.10. FAN shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in November 31, 2003, hold a Project annual review with the Bank, such review to 
be based on the reports referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have reasonably 
determined that the progress in the execution of the Part C of the Project or in the 
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken all such 
remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of 
such Part of the Project or the timely achievement of its objectives. 
 
Section 3.11. The Bank may, after June 31, 2007, inform FAN that it has decided 
not to carry out further supervision of Part C of the Project. Such notice shall also confirm 
any arrangement for the furnishing to the Bank of periodic information on the execution of 
Part C of the Project as Ecuador, the Bank, and FAN may have agreed upon beforehand. 
Upon receipt of such notice, the obligations of FAN referred to in Sections 3.05 and 3.09 of 
this Agreement shall cease. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  FAN shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and separate accounts in respect of Part C of the Project. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) FAN 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements), for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such Fiscal Year as 
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested including, as part of the information provided in each 
such report, a management letter concerning internal controls; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the FAN 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of FAN-FMRs or statements of 
expenditure, FAN shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 (iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the FAN-FMRs or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
 
Section 4.02. (a)  Pursuant to the provisions of the Asset Management Agreement, 
FAN shall cause the Asset Manager to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and separate accounts in respect of the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust 
Fund Grant allocated to Category 4 of the table in Part A.1 of Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Asset Management Agreement, FAN 
shall cause the Asset Manager to: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements), 
including those for the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund 
Grant referred to in paragraph (a) above, for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such Fiscal Year as 
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested including, as part of the information provided in each 
such report, a management letter concerning internal controls; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.03.  (a) With regard to Part C of the Project and without limitation 
upon FAN’s progress reporting obligations set out in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement, 
FAN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a FAN financial monitoring report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant, 
and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FAN-FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, 
and shall cover such calendar semester
.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that MAE shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the MAE GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Asset Management Agreement shall have been executed and 
delivered on behalf of the parties thereto, and is legally binding upon them in accordance 
with its terms;  
 
(b) 
that the selection process of the independent auditor referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement shall have been started; 
 
(c) 
that the Key FAN personnel shall have been selected; 
 
(d) tha
t
the Investment Strategy shall have been approved by FAN’s Board of 
Directors; and  
 
(e) 
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the MAE GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement (other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement) 
shall have been fulfilled. 
 
Section 6.02. The date July 17, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in full force effect until a date which 
is fifteen (15) years from the date of this Agreement. 
 
Section 6.04. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representation of FAN; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Executive Director of FAN is designated as representative of 
FAN, for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For FAN: 
 
Fondo Ambiental Nacional 
 
La Pradera N30-258 y Mariano Aguilera 
 
Edificio Santorini Piso 6 
 
Quito 
 
Ecuador 
Page  14
-
13
 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
/s/ John Redwood 
 
By 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
FONDO AMBIENTAL NACIONAL 
 
/s/ Samuel Sangüeza 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  15
-
14
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal and Utilization of the Proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section I.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Part A
:
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the FAN 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
FAN GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent
)
%
of
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) 
Goods under Part C 
 
         8,000 
 
 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
 
 
     153,000 
 
 
100% 
 
services and training 
 
under Part C of the 
 Project 
including 
audits 
 
(3) 
FAN Incremental 
 
        87,000   
 
100% 
 Recurrent 
Costs 
 
(4) 
Capital endowment of 
 
   3,052,000   
 
100% 
 FAN 
 
________ 
 TOTAL    
 
 
3,300,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Part A of Section I of Schedule 1, the terms: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures for goods supplied from the 
territory of any country other than Ecuador (if not sold while within the customs territory 
of Ecuador prior to such goods’ acquisition for use under the Project); 
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures for goods supplied from the 
territory of Ecuador (i.e., sold while within the customs territory of Ecuador for such 
goods’ first use under the Project) regardless of those goods’ territory of origin; 
Page  16
-
15
 - 
 
(c) 
“FAN Incremental Recurrent Costs” means FAN’s incremental recurrent 
costs arising from Project implementation, including inter alia: (i) Project-related 
workshops; (ii) office space and utilities; (iii) office equipment and supplies; and (iv) 
travel expenses and per diem of FAN officers; and 
(d) 
“training” means expenditures incurred by FAN in connection with the 
carrying out of training activities under Part C of the Project, including tuition, travel 
expenses and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of facilities and equipment, and 
training materials. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR25,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) of the table in Part A.1 
of this Section on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve (12) 
months prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: 
 
(a) goods; 
(b) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(c) 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; 
(d) training; 
and 
(e) 
FAN Incremental Recurrent Costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Part B
:
Special Disbursement Procedure
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of 
the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to Category (4) of the table in Part A.1 of this 
Section shall be withdrawn from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Account under one 
application for withdrawal providing for the entire amount to be transferred to the Asset 
Manager pursuant to the provisions of the Asset Management Agreement. 
 
Part C
:
FAN Special Account
Page  17
-
16
 - 
 
1. 
FAN shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that the FAN Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the FAN Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first FAN-FMR referred to in 
Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from FAN for withdrawal on the 
basis of FAN-FMRs, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Bank of a FAN-FMR pursuant to Section 4.03 (b) of 
this Agreement, accompanied by a request from FAN for withdrawal on the basis of 
FAN-FMRs, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the FAN Special Account shall be made exclusively for FAN 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by FAN out of the FAN Special Account, 
FAN shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for FAN 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the FAN Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any FAN-FMR does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by FAN directly from the FAN Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if FAN shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records 
and accounts for the FAN Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of FAN-FMRs. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the FAN Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of this Schedule if, at 
Page  18
-
17
 - 
 
any time, the Bank shall have notified FAN of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of FAN to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant 
to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the FAN Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and 
shall notify FAN of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the FAN 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, FAN shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the FAN Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
FAN Special Account will not be required to cover payments for FAN Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, FAN shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
FAN may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion 
of the funds on deposit in the FAN Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the FAN 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
Section II
.
Utilization of Part of the Proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant
1. 
The investment income deriving from the proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund 
Grant allocated to Category (4) of the table in Part A.1 of Section I of this Schedule (and 
any portion of the capital, in case such use of a portion of the capital has been approved 
by the Bank) shall be used exclusively for financing MAE Incremental Recurrent Costs, 
as prescribed in this Agreement, the FAN Operational Manual and each relevant FAN 
Annual Work Program.  
 
2. 
No proceeds of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to Category (4) of the 
table in Part A.1 of Section I of this Schedule or the income derived therefrom shall be 
used to finance payments of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, Ecuador on goods or 
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. 
 
Page  19
-
18
 - 
 
3. 
If any of the following events shall occur within fifteen (15) years of the date of 
this Agreement, upon notice from the Bank, FAN shall promptly refund (or cause the Asset 
Manager to refund) to the Bank, for deposit into the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, 
the amount of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to Category (4) of the table in 
Part A.1 of Section I of this Schedule and the income derived therefrom, in whole or in 
part, at the Bank’s option: 
 
(a) 
that the Bank shall have determined, at any time, that: (i) FAN shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and (ii) MAE shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under the MAE FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
expenditures shall have been made under a contract in respect of which 
the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of FAN or of a beneficiary of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, without FAN having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to Ecuador and the Bank to remedy the situation;  
 
(c) 
the FAN By-laws, the FAN Charter, the FAN Operational Manual, the 
Investment Strategy or the Asset Management Agreement shall have been amended, 
suspended, terminated, waived or failed to be enforced in a manner which, in the opinion of 
the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the implementation of Part C of the Project 
or the attainment of its objectives; and 
 
(d) 
FAN shall have been dissolved or its operations shall have been 
suspended. 
Page  20
-
19
 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of FAN Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of FAN-FMRs 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex the term “FAN Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount of $50,000 to be withdrawn from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into the FAN Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the FAN Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the FAN Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the FAN Authorized Allocation, FAN shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the FAN Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the FAN Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of FAN, withdraw from the FAN 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the FAN Special Account such amount 
as FAN shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the FAN Special Account, FAN shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the FAN Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, FAN shall furnish to the Bank 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of FAN, withdraw 
from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the FAN Special Account 
such amount as FAN shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the FAN Special Account for 
FAN Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the FAN Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more 
of the FAN Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the FAN Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the FAN Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the FAN GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the FAN GEF Trust 
Fund Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to FAN.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
Page  21
-
20
 - 
 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the FAN Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for FAN 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
 - 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of FAN Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of FAN-FMRs 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to FAN, all withdrawals 
from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
FAN Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the FAN Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the FAN Eligible 
Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the FAN GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
for deposit into the FAN Special Account shall be supported by a FAN-FMR. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the FAN GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of FAN, withdraw from the FAN GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the FAN Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has 
determined, based on the FAN-FMR accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance FAN Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when 
added to the amount indicated by said FAN-FMR to be remaining in the FAN Special 
Account, shall not exceed $50,000. 
Page  23
-
22
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the request of any quotation, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods  
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part B above, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  24
-
23
 - 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Section I and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  25
-
24
 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the Bank, 
for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, and (ii) the first contract for the 
employment of a consulting firm to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part B above, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  26
-
25
 - 
 
WB76939 
M:\Varela 2002\Ecuador\National System of Protected Areas (SNAP)\ECUADOR- NSPA (FAN GEF Grant 
Agreement-Final).doc 
October 23, 2002 10:34 AM
 
