Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE OrNLY
Rteport No, 5488
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA          GUJINEA: SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 677-PNG)
February 25, 1985
East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office
This document has a rest.iited distribuiion and may be used by recipients only in the performa^nce of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without W^orld Bank zuthoriz2tion. |



FOR OMFICIL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 677-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  ........................................................        i
BASIC DATA SHEET.                                                       ii
HIGHLIGHTS .iii
I. INTRODUCTION                        .I
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.                 3
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST        ..                          7
A. Summary.                                                        7
B.  Highway Construction and Improvement.                          7
C.  Detailed Engineering of Highlands Highway
Waterais-Togoba .....................................       12
D.  Rural Development Studies .............................       13
E.  Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
of Roads for future projects.                               14
F.  Technical Assistance to Local Civil
Engineering Contractors ............................       14
G.  Costs of Project and Disbursements ....................       15
IV. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT         ..16
A.  Department of Transport, Works and SuppLy (DTWS)              16
B.  Local Civil Engineering Construction Industry .... .....  'N16
C.  Road Transport Industry ...............................       17
D. Road Maintenance .18
E.  Right of Way and Land acquisition .18
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION .18
VI. CONCLUSIONS ................,.                    ...........      20
TABLES
1. Actual and expected Project Implementation .2
2. Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Cost.                           2r
3. Economic vehicle operating Costs .27
4. Traffic Survey conducted 1983 .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
5. Traffic Projections on HighLands Highway, 1974-2002
Appraisal and Actual AADT ........................ . *.          29
6. Road Improvement:  Comparison of Net Benefits at Appraisal
(1976) and Reappraisal (1983):  Asaro-Watabung .........          0
7. Road Improvement:  Comparison of Net Benefits at Appraisal
(1976) and Reappraisal (1983):  Chuave-Kundiawa *........    31
8. Road Improvement:  Comparison of Net Benefits at Appraisal
(1976) and Reappraisal (1983):  Kundiawa-Garnigl ........    32
MAP
IBRD 11428 R 1



- i
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 677-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
The following is a Project Completion Report on the Second Highlands
Road Improvement Project in Papua New Guinea. The Credit, No. 677-PNG for
US$19.0 million, was approved by the Executive Directors on January 25, 1977.
the agreement was signed January 28, 1977, and the credit was closed June 30,
1982, when US$0.5 million remaining in the credit account was cancelled.
The CompLetion Report was prepared by the Bank's East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office and is based on information obtained from the East
Asia and Pacific information Center, Appraisal Report No. 1250a-PNG dated
January 11, 1977, staff supervision reports, consultants' final reports, data
supplied by the Department of Transport and Civil Aviation, the Department of
Works and Services, and information gathered by a project completion and
supervision mission to PaptLa New Guinea in November 1983.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were
received.



- t1i -
PROECT CONPLETIOIIC REFIOISrUIC DATA SrEET
PAPUA MNE  GUINEA: SECOND NIGHLANDS ROAD 14PROVEMENT PRoJECr (CREDIT 677-rsC)
tCountry)            (Prject Title)                                CL.nC  No.)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appratoal               Actual or
It_                                                              Expectation           Currant KCettmte
Total Project Coat CUSS miltion)                                        USS27.2CK 22.7)         U     4K  24.9)    /a
Overrun CZ)                                                                 -              2 t  U47  (IOtK)
LoeniCredit Amount (U5S million)                                             19.0                     19.0
Disbursed       )                                                          19 0                     18.5
Cancelled       )                                                           -                        0.5
Repaid to       )       09130183                                            -                        -
Outstading to )          09t30/83                                           -                       18.5
Dote Physical Components Completed                                          09/0                    1215
Proportion Completed by Above Date CR3                                         100                     75S
Proportton of Time Overrun CE)                                                -                        3DS
Ecnnomtc Rate of Return (C)                                                  27.5                      16            fi
CUAULATIVC DISJURSEMENTS
FY77   FY78   FY79   FY8O   FY83I   n82
AppreLeal esttmate CUSS millton)                                           1.7    6.6   12.0   16.7   19.0
Actual (MS mItlion)                                                        t.3    8.11  11.2   13.5   16.4   18.A
Actual as Z of estimate                                                     76    121      93      8t     86      97
Date of final disbursemenL                                                 06110182
Princtpal repaid to (no. /day./yr.) (USS  Llion)
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Origtnal                                              Actual or
1L                                            Plan                    visittons                   Eat. Actual
First 'lntlon En Files or Timetable                  6    72                                                4    72
:overneentie Applicatton                            06 12 73                   t  i                            1 2*3
legottAtlono                                         =     74                   712/03/76
Board Approval                                      "       4                  (75
Lnon/Credit Altreement nOte              I7774                               _r7_                          01/Z77
Effecttveneas Date                                        /75                  t3 /76                      03/02/77
Closing n..te                                       067lTO1/                06/30/82                       06|/10182
Borrower                                            The Independent State of Papua Now Cutnea
ExecutInR Agency                                    Department of Transport. Works and Suppli
Ftical Year of oorrover                             Januarv I - December 31
Follow-on Project NSow                              Thtrd  i.hwa - Project
Loan/Credit Number                                Loan  5/Crdit 1030-PNG
Amount CUSS Million)                              Totl 3.0 aLon 17.07Credit 13.0)
Loan/Credtt Agreasant Date                        09/16180
MISSION DATA
Sent                            No. of          Yo. of                               Date of
item            bv          Month. Year        Weeks           Persons         Man-weaks            Report
Identification         TPT             04/72                2              2                 6       /i    05/18172
Preparation          A_PT               05/73              1              1                 1       77    0-6/11(73
Preappralsal           AEPT             03/74               1              2                 2       /c    03121176
Appralsal              AEPT         =08/74                  3              2                 b      7;W   01/1t177
Total                                                 7                               13       /e
Supervtiaon I          AFPT            07/77                2              1                 2             03/28/78
Supervision II         ACPT             11/78               3              2                 6       if    12/07(78
Supervision III        AEPT            05/79                3              2                 6       jg    06/06179
Supervision IV         AEPT             10179               3              2                 6       jj    11i15/79
Supervision V          ACPT             n/a80               1              1                  I      fh    11/05/80
Supervision VI         AEPT            03/81                3              2                 6       7?    03/31(81
Superviston VII        AEPTZ            11/81               1              22                        7?    OV17/82
Completion             AEPTZ            11/83               2              2           _     4       7-_   ____I_
'otal                                               ___33                                      /k
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                                         Kina                           K
Year!
Appraisal Year Average                 Iq74                            Exchange Rate:  USSI -        ASn.694       /
Intervening Years Average           IY75-81                                             USSI         K 0.724
Completion Year                  1982 (Jan-Jun)                                         USs1 -       K 0.715
In  Total project coat Increase in USS equtvalent of 26:. compared with increase In King of only 101. due to
appreciation of Kina relative to USS during partod of project execution.
/b  The projectsa econonic rate of return was calculated on the basis of road uaer and maintenance coat savings
resulting from the road improvements.
kc  Includes supervision of First Highway Project (Loan 693/Credit 204-PNC).
7;i Includes field work for Completion Report for First Righway Project.
7e  About 8 man-weeka attributable to Second Highlands Road Improvement Project (Credit 677-PSG).
7F  Includes preappralsal of Third Highway Project (Loan 1856/Credit 103-PNG).
7j; Includes appraisal of Third Highway Project.
lb1 Includes supervision of Third Highway Project.
7   Includes supervision of Third Righway Project. preparatton of proposed Road Improvment Project
(Loan 2265-PNC), and field work for Project Completion Report for Second Ports Project (Loan 1552-PNC).
I1 Includes supervision of Third RlXhway Project and Read Improvsent Project.
7i About IN man-waks attributable to Second Highlands Road Improvement Project.
tl  Australian dollars unttl Independence In September 19'S.



- iii -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 677-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
i.        The project accomplished its main objective of improving three
exceptionally difficult sections of the Highlands Highway and established
substantially all-weather road communication with the Central Highlands
Region. The sections, in mountainous terrain, with highly unstable soils, had
been subject to landslides and other failures, frequently blocking traffic,
especially during the long season of heavy rainfall.
ii.       The overall economic rate of return (ERR) on the road
construction/improvement is lower, at about 16%, than the 27% estimated at
appraisal, based on reduced operating costs of vehicles. The reduction is due
mainly to lower traffic growth, and less upgrading to more efficient types of
trucks, than forecast, probably due to economic recession and restrictive
regulation of commercial vehicles. Also, the construction took about a year
longer than forecast and there was a cost overrun (including contingency
allowances) of 7% (in Kina), or 24% (in US$ equivalent). However, the ERR
indicates that the investment was justified, and probably understates the full
benefit of substantially improved access to the Highlands.
Iii.      In spite of the overruns in construction time and cost, the
successful completion of the road construction works is a notable achievement
under such unusually difficult conditions of soils, terrain and rainfall.
iv.       The following points are of special interest:
(a) obtaining bids for the main works before negotiating the credit
allowed the Government to adjust the scope of the project, before
commitment, to within its financial targets (paras 2.03-2.06);
(b)  re-bidding after about 18 months (when economic and political
conditions were judged to be more favorable), produced prices about
20% lower in real terms than originally bid (paras. 2.09 and 2.11);
tc) the "managedt" force account construction, as agreed for about 30% of
the works, operated satisfactorily and produced finished work com-
parable with that executed by contract; however difficulties of
overall costing of the force account operations make any meaningful
comparison of costs difficult (paras. 3.10-3.14, 3.16 and 3.17).
(d) more detail engineering design should had been undertaken before
bidding instead of leaving a larger than usual amount of such design
details to the supervisory team (paras. 3.22 and 3.23).



i v -
(e)  only modest progress was made regarding institutional and transport
policy issues. The recruitment and training of PNG nationals for
professional posts is proceeding slowLy because of insuficient
qualified candidates for the engineering school (para. 4.03). Also.
limited progress was achieved with the development of local
contractors (para. 4.04).
(f) an important outstanding issue is the regulation of road transport,
including the restrictive licensing of commercial road vehicles
(paras. 4.06-4.08).
(g)  acquisition of right of way remains a long and troublesome
process. The sclution to this problem is outside the scope of a
highway project (para. 4.10).



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 677-PNG)
Project Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Papua New Guinea (PNG) consists of the eastern half of the large
island of New Guinea and about 600 smaller islands; the principal ones are New
Britain, Bougainville, and New Ireland. The main part, on New Guinea Island
has around two-thirds of the total area and population of PNG and 40% of the
entire population lives in the central Highlands area. Historically, the
Highlands were very isolated. They are separated from the southern coastal
area by a rugged mountain range and, at the Western end by swamps. There is
no motorable land connection. Even to the northern coast, access is difficult
since mountainous areas and steep escarpments have to be traversed. Only
after the Second WorLd War was a track constructed, negotiable by four-wheel
drive vehicles, from the port of Lae and the Markham River Valley, up to
Goroka and Mount Hagen. Gradual improvements were made during the 1950s and
early 1960s, but it remained still little better than an improved track. Not
only is the area mountainous, but the soils are largely of very recent,
geologicaLly, volcanic origin, with steep sLopes and are highly unstable.
Many sections of the road suffered large-scale slides during the prolonged
seasons of heavy rainfall. Traffic was frequently interrupted for hours, and
sometimes days, until the blockages were cleared, or deviations made, by heavy
road machinery which had to be stationed constantly on the road. None of the
road was paved.
1.02      Such was the state of the "Highlands Highway" as it is called which
runs about 600 km from Lae to Mendi via Goroka, Kundiawa and Mount Hagen, the
principal towns in the Highlands area. Initially, the Highlands had to be
supported almost entirely by air transport. Only graduaLly was road transport
able to develop between the towns and the port of Lae. Even now, air
transport is important, paticularly for passengers and for traffic to the
capital, Port Moresby, since there is stiLl no land connection and the only
alternative is coastal shipping. It can readily be seen why the provision of
improved land transport to the Highlands has long been a major concern of the
Government.
1.03      The First Highway Project (Loan 693-PNG/Credit 204-PNG, totaling
US$9.0 million dated June 24, 1970), was for the construction and improvement
of about 150 km of the road between Kundiawa and Mendi. The sections omitted
were the approximately 16 km between Minj and Kudjip, for which alternative
alignments were to be studied, Togoba-Kaupena and Assissi-Mendi, which were
being improved by the Government from its budget funds. These improvements
were selected on the basis of the UNDP-financed Transport Survey of 1968-1969
for which the 3ank acted as executing agency. The Transport Survey had
recommended the improvement of this western part of the Highlands Highway, and
it also suggested a new access to the Highlands be constructed between
Kundiawa and the port of Madang. The First Highway Project accordingly
included a feasibility study or this proposed new route and, provisionally.



-2-
also for its detailed engineering if it were found feasible, as well as
engineering of the short section Minj-Kujip. The Project also included an
element of technical assistance to the Department of Public Works, mainly for
costing, estimating for works, and personnel administration.
1.04      With the provision of road access into the Highlands, even though
still to a low standard, the number of vehicles in the Highlands grew at an
average rate of 18% p.a. over the ten year period to 1974, compared with the
11 average growth for the entire country. This growth was fostered by
government policies which did not restrict entry to the road haulage
business. The industry was therefore competitive and relatively efficient.
However, the costs of transport were very high because of the road conditions
and because of the very unbalanced freight traffic, with about four times as
much volume from Lae to the Highlands as from the Highlands to Lae.
1.05      In the early 1970s, the Government approached the Bank for a Second
Highway Project with the main objective of improving the remainder of the
Highlands Highway to all weather standard and, as far as possible, including
paving. The initial approach was that the construction would probably be on
the suggested new alignment between Kundiawa and Madang, depending on the
outcome of the feasibility study and engineering under the First Highway
Study.
1.06      The planning, design, construction, and maintenance of roads was
historically the responsibility of the Public Works Department CPWD).
However, following the Bank's 1967 economic mission, which had emphasized
coordination of transport planning, a Directorate of Transport was set up in
1968, while the UNDP Transport Survey was in progress. In 1971 the
Directorate, was succeeded by a Department of Transport with responsibility
for planning and coordinating all surface transport systems, and civil
aviation was added from 1973. Since the independence of Papua New Guinea in
September 1975, various organizational changes have taken place. At first,
the Department of Transport became the Office of Transport, and was placed in
a Department of Transport, Works and Supply, which contained also a National
Works Authority, which was responsible for design and execution of works.
This was the position at the time of negotiating the Second Road Project, in
late 1976. However, subsequently, the two functions of planning and
administration of Transport, and of the design, execution and maintenance of
works, have again been separated into the Department of Transport and Civil
Aviation (DTCA), and the Department of Works and Supply (DWS). It is
questionable whether the planning and administration of Transport should be
under a different Department (and Minister) from the design and execution of
works and maintenance operations. It may be argued that separation gives more
emphasis and independence to the planning process, and also there is a
political dimension. However, there is a penalty in making the necessary
close cooperation and trade-offs between the two functions more complicated
and difficult. The important interchange of the knowledge of field conditions
and of construction and maintenance techniques from the workstaff to the
planners and of broader planning and economic concepts from the planners to
the workstaff, may therefore be substantially lost.



II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      Initially, it was believed by the Government and the Bank that the
major part of a possible future Second Highway Project would consist of the
construction of a new route to the Highlands from Madang, to Kundiawa. A
feasibility study of this route was carried out by Australian consultants
under the First Project (para. 1.03). The results were reviewed during a Bank
mission in ApriL 1972. The conclusion was that construction of such a route
would not be economically justified until the late 1980s, whereas an
improvement of the existing route between Lae and Kundiawa would be justified
immediately. It was therefore agreed by the Government and the Bank that
detailed engineering of the new Madang route not be proceeded with and that
instead the improvement of the existing route Lae-Waterais-Kundiawa be further
studied and engineered for future projects. At the same time, it was noted
that the Asian Development Bank had indicated interest in financing
improvements to the Lae-Waterais section. It was agreed therefore, by the
Covernment and the Bank that the remaining length, Waterais-Kundiawa be
considered for inclusion in the possible Second Project. The Government
engaged the Australian consultant who had done the feasibility study to carry
out further studies and detailed engineering of this length. The consultant's
work was also to include further study and detailed engineering of any
additional improvements, including paving, needed between Kundiawa-Mount
Hagen-Togoba. The total length for detailed engineering was around 320 km and
it was agreed by the Bank that the cost of the consultant's work would be
considered for possible retroactive financing under the proposed Second
Project.
2.02      An appraisal mission visited PNG in August 1974, when it was deemed
that the detailed engineering had progressed sufficiently far.  For purposes
of analysis, the consultants had divided the road into 12 sections which were
rpasonably homogeneous as to terrain, road condition and traffic. The first
two short sections at the Waterais (eastern) end were omitted from the
Project. The first one, of 6 km from Waterais to the beginning of the Kassam
pass, was to be included in the proposed ADB financed Project, while the 8 km
Kassam pass section was being constructed by the Government, financed from the
budget.  The remaining ten sections of the Highlands Highway, between Kassam
and Togoba, totaling about 302 km were appraised for construction/improvement,
including bituminous paving, in the proposed Second Project.
2.03      On the basis of the consultant's analyses and cost estimates so far
available, it was believed that all the sections would be economically
justified. However, the consultant's work was not due for completion until
late 1974, when the final details of the quantities of work etc. would be
known, and the economic analyses, further brought up to date. However, the
Bank had serious misgivings as to the estimation of unit costs of carrying out
works at that time. Firstly, prices of such works worldwide were being
drastically affected by the oil crisis.  In addition, in PNG, contractors had
been rather fulLy engaged in other works, particularly concerning the mining
industry in Bougainville. ALso, the capacity of locally based contractors was
limited, and bidding was likeLy to be larzely dependent on foreign firms, not
necessarily with anv Local base of operations. Furthermore, the country was
approaching independence and it was thought that this might temporarily affect
the confidence uf contracturs pending the change-over of administration.



- 4 -
Consequently, it was agreed that bids for the works should be invited and
received before negotiating the proposed credit.
2.04      Accordingly, the Government sent out invitations to bid in late
December 1974, as soon as the documents were ready. The bids were opened in
March 1975, and were found to exceed the estimates by 75Z. The Covernment and
the Bank agreed that the bids appeared high. The Government considered that
lower bids might be obtained if the bidding documents were revised to combine
the works into two large sections, instead of the six previously bid, in the
hope of achieving economies of scale, and if some improvements, from the
contractors point of view, were made in the bid conditions. In particular,
larger advance pavments were offered. since it was believed that contractors
at that time found difficulty in financing operations.
2.05      In agreement with the Bank, the Covernment rejected the bids
received and sent out invications for new bids in May 1975 (from all the
contractors previously prequalified for contracts of the appropriate size).
The bids were opened in July 1975, but failed to produce lower prices. The
Bank indicated it was willing to consider possibly increasing the amount of
financing to be offered. However, the Covernment decided the cost of the
Project was too great, and rejected the bids.
2.06      In March 1976, the Covernment sent a delegation to the Bank with a
proposal that a reduced Project be reformulated to cover only the most urgent
sections of the Highlands Highway. The delegation consisted of senior
representatives of the works and transport offices of the Department of
Transport, Works and Supply, together with the Australian consultants.
Preliminary reevaluations were carried out on the various sections of the
Highway, based on the latest available or estimated data, as to costs, traffic
and the state of the road sections. Also, alternatives were considered for
improvements with or without paving, or with partial paving of short segments
of particularly steep gradients. Agreement was reached that the reformulated
ProjecL would consist of three sections: (i) Asaro-Watabung (18 km) (ii)
Chuave-Kundiawa (27 km); and (iii) Kundiawa-Garnigl (23 km).
2.07      Section (i) constitutes the Daulo pass, a steep escarpment section
which was subject to slides, frequently blocking traffic during the rainy
seasons. Section (ii) is also in very mountainous terrain, and was on a bad
alignment, with very steep gradients, even more unstable soil and many slips.
also frequently blocking traffic for hours and occasionally for days. Most of
the section required relocation in order to improve the alignment and to avoid
as far as possible, or minimize, crossing areas where the soil is gradually,
sliding down the mountainside. Section tiii) was improved under the First
Highway Project, but is located in the steep mountainous area, with
exceptionally unstable soil conditions, around Kundiawa. Although the
improvements had produced a much better alignment and reduced the number and
frequency of soil slips, a number of serious ones still periodically
occurred. These areas required substantial remedial action and this section,
as well as the other two sections, needed paving especially in view of the
frequent steep gradients.
2.08      The Government delegation proposed that a proportion of the works be
carried out by force account. The reasons were that there had been poor
response by contractors the previous year, -he Government wished to start as



- 5 -
quickly as possitle on the remedial works of Section (ii), the force account
work would give government staff direct construction eyperience and training,
provide a comparison on which to judge rhe contract works and costs, and chere
were a number of small local equipment hire firms, which could provide and
operate the equipment, but were not capable of undertaking the responsibilitV
for works contracts. Agreement was reached that the most appropriate works
for force account construction would be the earthworks, drainage, and subbase
construction constituting the remedial works on Section (iii), and parc of
Section II, Chuave-Kundiawa. rhe remaining part of Section (ii) would be
undertaken by contract, as well as the whole of Section Ci), including its
paving. Paving of Sections (ii) and (iii) would be carried out by contract,
as a subsequent operation. This two-stage construction was considered
advisable because in such unstable soil conditions, even with good
engineering, it was likely that at least a few segments would still be liable
to some movement after construction, and these could be repaired before
paving. It was further tentatively agreed that the force account remedial
works on Section (iii) would be started by about June 1976 with assistance
from consultar:ts to manage all the force account works, and provide on-the-job
training, and that the works and consultants' services would be considered for
retroactive financing.
2.09      It was also agreed that the Australian consultants would go ahead
immediately to revise and prepare bid documents for Section (i) and for the
two parts of Section (ii) as well as prepare designs for the remedial works
for Section (iii). The documents would be prepared for separate contracts for
the earthworks, drainage and subbase, and for subsequent contracts for paving
Sections (ii) and (iii). The Government also undertook to update the
feasibility analyses for the three sections. with the help of the consultants.
as quickly as possible, so that the Bank's 1975 draft appraisal report could
be revised. The Bank suggested that a reappraisal mission should be sent,
since the original appraisal had been carried out in 1974. However, the
Government considered this unnecessary and the Bank withdrew the suggestion.
in view of the Government's undertaking to provide the revised engineering and
economic data. Once again, it was agreed that bids for Section (i) and for
the earthworks, drainage and subbase for Section (ii) be obtained before the
credit negotiations. The Covernment and the consultants expressed hope that
there had been an improvement in the climate for bidding. It was believed
that some contractors were in need of additional work, and the transition to
independence had already taken place, thus removing some real or imagined
uncertainties.
2.10      Revised bid draft bid documents were prepared and agreed with the
Bank in July 1976, as well as revised cost estimates, and updated traffic
data. Also, following readvertisement by the Covernment, additional
contractors had pre-qualified bringing the total to 14. Bids were invited tor
Section Ci) and for the first stage (earthworks, drainage and subbase) on
Section (ii) in August. and were opened in October, 1976. In the meantime.
the Bank had prepared a revised draft appraisal report for the reformulated
Project, with cost estimates prepared by the Government and consultants on th.
basis of the previous bids received. The new bid prices in October 1976 were
in facL about 10Z lower in financial terms than the bids received in 1975. .nd
at least 2OZ lower in real terms. Negotiation *t the Credit took place in th
Bank in earlv December 1976.



-6-
2.11      In view of the somewhat prolonged preparation and the discussions in
March, 1976, agreement was quickly reached on the construction and improvement
element, consisting of the three sections referred to above. The Bank agreed
that the Australian consultants supervise all the works. It was further
agreed that another firm of Australian consultants be employed to assist the
Government in managing the force account works to be carried out by the
National Works Authority (NWA) (para. 1.06), and that disbursements from the
Credit for such works would be on the basis of unit prices for each kind of
work, to be agreed with the Bank, and on certified measurements by the
supervisory consultants of the quantities of work carried out; in other words,
on a basis similar to payments for contracts. The unit prices were agreed
during negotiations, on the basis of the bid prices received from the
contractors.
2.12      Agreement was also confirmed on proposals which had previously been
discussed for including rural development preparation studies, in the Enga and
Chimbu provinces, which are among the provinces served by the Highlands High-
way. Also, included at the request of the Government was a feasibility study,
to be followed by detailed engineering if found justified, of the Togoba-
Wapenamanda road (about 63 km).  This is the principal road connecting the
Enga province with the Highlands Highway. A further item agreed was-the
provision by consultants of technical assistance and training for local
contractors. The object of this was to develop a number of the existing
equipment hire local small firms to be able to undertake full responsibility
for contracts.
2.13      Leading up to and immediately following independence, the Government
service had lost a large number of expatriate technical and other senior
staff. The Bank had expressed concern that this might weaken the Government's
ability to execute projects and to carry out maintenance which hitherto had
been good. The ultimate aim was, of course, to localize the service at all
levels. However, the major obstacle to effecting this within a reasonable
time was the lack of suitably educated local candidates. This severely
limited the Government's training programs, including those already existing
within the Department of Works and Supply, to prepare local staff to take
over. For a prolonged period, it would therefore be necessary to continue
substantial staffing with expatriates and agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Government would provide in this way adequate staffing
in the Transport and Works Offices of the Department of Transport Works and
Supply, in addition to continuing its training programs.
2.14      A further point on which the Bank expressed some anxiety, was the
total volume of force account works to be undertaken by the DWTS. Agreement
was reached that the Department wouLd not undertake any force account works in
the Project other than those already agreed, and also that it would not divert
resources, including labor and equipment, from road maintenance works in order
to undertake the force account construction.
2.15      The Project was approved by the EDs, January 25, 1977, the Credit
Agreement for US$19 million signed January 28, and the Credit became effective
March 2, 1977.



rII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
A.   Summary
3.01      The Project was completed with a time overrun of one year and a cost
overrun (in Kina) of about 10%. This can be considered satisfactory having
regard to the very difficult nature of most of the construction works; the
three sections of road had been selected for construction because they were in
the worst condition, with frequent interruptions of traffic, and presented
exceptional difficulties of soils and terrain. The works have transformed the
vehicle operating conditions of the road and practically eliminated traffic
interruptions. The studies and engineering under the Project formed the basis
of subsequent Highway and provincial rural levelopment projects that are being
financed by the Bank.
3.02      The overrun of twelve months occurred on the two road sections where
paving was to be carried out separately as a second stage, after completion of
the earthworks. It was decided to wait until all the earth works were
completed and then award a single contract for the paving. This decision was
probably justified since it offered some economies of scale and more impor-
tantly it enabled failures in the newly constructed earthworks to be detected
and repaired before paving. The cost overrun of 10% (in Kina) should not be
considered excessive in view of the exceptionally difficult terrain and soil
conditions encountered. The overrun in US$ equivalent of about 26Z is higher
because of the appreciation of the Kina relative to the US$ during the period
of Project execution. The exchange rate was about US$ 1.00 to Kina 0.83 at
the time of negotiations and finalization of the cost estimates, but it fell
to an average of about Kina 0.72 during the construction period.
B. Highway Construction and Improvement
(i)  Asaro-Watabung  (18 km)
3.03      As noted above (para. 2.10) bids for this section, as well as for
18.5 km of Section (ii) Chuave-Kundiawa, were opened in October 1976. Three
bids were received and the contract was awarded to the lowest, an Australian
contractor, in February 1977, shortly after the credit was signed. The work
included construction of a box culvert, for which separate bid documents had
been issued. The Australian consultant who had undertaken the engineering was
appointed to supervise the construction.
3.04      During discussions in Washington in 1976, the representatives of
DTWS stated that after the consultant had completed the engineering of this
section in 1974, the Department's maintenance forces had carried out substan-
tial amounts of work, largely when repairing sections repeatedly damaged by
earth slides. As the section of road was being widened and improved almost
entirely on the existing alignment, it was suggested that the quantities of
earthworks and drainage shown in the bid documents be substantially reduced,
and this was done. However, it became apparent when the work started that the
amount of work done by the maintenance forces had been exaggerated. It was
therefore found necessary to further widen the road in many places and much of
the drainage had yet to be added. There was consequently a significant
physical overrun in quantities of these works and these were agreed with che



contractor, together with an extension of seven months in the time for comple-
ting the contract. In addition, during construction, a number of sections of
the existing road collapsed in the Daulo Pass area due to earth slides or
settlement in chat unstable soil area. The necessary repairs and reconstruc-
tion involved some further additional work. The work on the section was
completed in August 1979. Notwithstanding the satisfactory execution of the
repair/reconstruction works on the failed sections, in addition to the
widening, it must be expected that some new failures will occur from time to
time in the future. However, it is unlikely that they will be nearly as
frequent or severe as was the case before the Project works were undertaken.
(ii)  Chuave-Kundiawa (27 km)
3.05      As noted in para 2.08, this section was divided into two parts.  One
part (of 18.5 km), was to be carried out by contract. The remaining part
(8.5 km) was to be constructed by force account by the DTWS National Works
Authority (NWA). The contract part included construction of a bridge near
Kundiawa, for which separate bid documents were prepared.
3.06      Bids were opened in October 1976 for the KM 0.0 - KM 18.5km
'icontract" length. The low bidder was the Australian contractor who had
submitted also the low bid for Section (i) above (para. 3.03). The contract
for this part, includirg the bridge, was awarded to him in February 1977, at
the same time as the contract for Section (i). As noted, the terrain and soil
conditions on the Highlands Highway are generally difficult. However these
conditions in the area of Chuave-Kundiawa are exceptionally difficult. In
addition to the steeply sloping, recently deposited, volcanic soils, presen-
ting slide problems during wet weather, there were extensive deposits of shale
which presented major problems. Firstly, the slopes to which the shale could
be cut, with reasonable stability, depended on the dip of the bedding planes
of the shale. Such slopes could be relatively steep where the dip was away
from the roadway cutting but had to be substantially flattened where the dip
was towards the roadway. These factors could be predetermined after carrying
out a substantial amount of investigation. However, another major factor was
the degree of rupturing in the shale caused by earthquake tremors which are
common in the region, and the resulting amount and path of surface water
penetrating into the shale. The result of these factors was the occurrance of
many slips in the deep cut faces in the shale. It was virtually impossible to
predict, or locate, such ruptured areas in the shale before roadway excavation
took place.
3.07      The contractor suggested a general flattening of all the cut
slopes. However the consultant pointed out that there was a very big
difference in stability, and therefore in the steepness of stable slope which
could be obtained, in the shale depending on its bedding plane dip and the
amount of rupture it had suffered. The stable slope varied between three
quarters:one and four:one. To have cut back sufficiently to flatten all the
slopes to the worst case condition (which occurred largely at random) would
have been a prohibitive increase in excavation. It was decided therefore to
adjust the angle of the cut slopes to the known dip of the bidding planes, but
not to try to take account of the potential slip areas. These were simply
dealt with as they occurred. invoLving additional excavation and drainage as
found necessary.



- 9 -
3.08      The worst problem which occurred was a major landslide for a length
of about 150 m along the road alignment. The slide extended for 800 meters up
the hillside from the road and to a depth of many meters in the soil. The
solution here was a substantial relocation for over a kilometer in the road
alignment. Many smaller landslides, and slips (in the shale) occurred and had
to be dealt with. The result was an increase of about 25% in the earth works
quantities over those shown on the original drawings. The additionaL quanti-
ties of work were of course measured by the consultant and payment made to the
contractor. However, the contractor put in a large number of claims for addi-
tional payments at higher unit rates. To try to resolve the question, a
number of trial repair operations were monitored to try to establish agreed
rates in October 1978. However the consultant's valuation in December 1978
was not accepted by the contractor. The contractor put forward further cLaims
during the following year and by January 1980 the total of his claims amounted
to K 4 million and the contractor stopped work. The DTWS agreed to advance
the contractor K 1.0 miLlion against a Bank guarantee pending the finaL adju-
dication on the claims. The contractor then resumed work and completed the
contract in August 1980. The contractor's final claim amounted to K 5,921.000
and would thus double the original contract amount of K 5,893,000. The con-
sultant and the contractor were unable to reach agreement on the claims, with
the consultant maintaining that only a small fraction of the total was justi-
fiable. It seemed probable that the contractor would call for arbitracion
under the terms of the contract.
3.09      A meeting was then held between the contractor and the DTWS, with
the consultant present. It is understood that the Government was anxious if
possible to avoid the prolonged and expensive procedure of arbitration,
possibly followed by a court appeal. The expenses of arbitration could well
amount to over K 0.5 million and a great deal more if a court appeal was
involved.  Furrhermore, a great deal of the time of senior department staff
would have been involved. The negotiations resulted in a settlement with the
contractor for a payment of K2,680,000 over and above the payments certified
by the consultant, in accordance with the measured quantities of work, in his
Final Certificate.
3.10      The earthwork, drainage, and sub-base, on the remaining 8.5 km of
Section (ii) KM 18.5-KM 27.0 were undertaken by the Government by force
account. As noted in para. 2.11, the agency was the National Works Authority
(NWA) of the DTWS. The basis for the arrangement, and for payments to be made
by the Bank, was an "agreement" between the NWA and the DTWS including esti-
mated quantities of work and unit prices similar to those in a contract; the
unit prices were in fact agreed on the basis of bid prices received from the
successful contractor on the remainder of Section (ii). The NWA, as had been
tentatively agreed, started work in July 1976 with the understanding that the
work would be eligible for retroactive financing if and when the proposed
credit became effective.
3.11      NWA force account construction unit was set up with a management
team provided by another firm of Australian consulting engineers, staff pro-
vided by the DTWS, and a smaLl amount of equipment and vehicles provided by
the DTWS, but the bulk of the equipment, especially heavy earth moving
machines, and trucks, was provided by a number of small equipment hire Eirms
which exist in Papua 'ew Guinea. This arrangement had the substantiaL merit
that it avoided the DTWS having to obtain. service and operate a large amount



- 10 -
of equipment. The equipment hire firms, however merely provided and serviced
the equipment, and provided the operators. Their work was directed by the NWA
staff. Similar arrangements have quite often been used by the DTWS in the
past on construction and maintenance works.
3.12      The nature of the work, soils and terrain conditions, and difficul-
ties encounte.:ed, on this section were very similar to those which occurred
with the Section KM 0.0 - KM 18.5 constructed by the Australian contractor,
described above (paras. 3.06 - 3.08). Similar problems had to be dealt with
in regard to the unstable soil slides and the shale with varying angles of dip
and random unstable ruptured areas, causing slips. In fact the overrun in
quantities of earthwork excavation amounted to about 80%. However the total
quantities of work on the shorter NWA Section were substantially less than on
the contractor's Section. The actual quantities of work were, of course,
measured and certified for payment by the design/supervision consultant, as in
the case of the part carried out by the contractor.
3.13      The NWA force account construction unit (later named the Intensive
Construction Group (ICW)) completed the earthworks, drainage and subbase on
their 8.5 km part of Section (ii) in May 1979. The total cost certified by
the Australian Design/Supervision Consultant, in accordance with the measured
quantities, was K 3,703,000 compared with the initial estimated amount
(excluding contingency allowances) of K 2,431,000 (or K 3,281,000 including
contingency allowances). Overall, the cost overrun was therefore about 13%.
3.14      It took some time for relations between the design/supervision con-
sultant and the management consultant to settle down. Inevitably, they some-
times tended to have their different opinions as to how the work should be
carried out, as seen from their different viewpoints. Nevertheless, after a
while a good working relationship was established and the work was satisfac-
torily completed.
3.15      From the above narrative, an impression might be formed that there
was a good deal of trouble in carrying out the works and friction between the
design/supervising consultant and the contractor, and to some extent the force
account construction unit. However, this aspect should rot be overstressed
and should be seen in the context of the conditions under which the work was
carried out. The fact is that the works were successfully completed under
great difficulties. The terrain is mountainous and the road had to be con-
structed largely on severe gradients, across steep side slopes with highly
unstable soils, and under heavy rainfall. In the end, the works were comple-
ted at least as well as could reasonably be expected under such circums-
tances. Although some slides, settlement and other failures must be expected
to continue for a considerable time, they are dramatically diminished compared
with the frequent large scale failures and blockages of the road which occur-
red before the construction was undertaken. Overall, therefore, the perfor-
mance of the DTWS, the consultants and the contractor was good.
(iii)  Kundiawa-Garnigl (23 km)
3.16      As noted (para. 2.07) the work on this section, which had been
improved under the First Highway Project, consisted of remedial works on a
number of lengths which had given trouble. Chiefly, the work consisted of
substantial repairs in piaces where soil slips, or in some cases landslides,



- 11 -
had occurred. Initial examination had indicated that an important part of the
remedial works would be to provide subsurface drainage since much of the soil
movement was caused, or aggravated, by the movement of w.ater. As part of the
assignment, the Australian design/supervision consultant undertook an investi-
gation of the failed areas and proposed remedial measures to be undertaken.
In the meantime, the DTWS maintenance forces had carried out temporary repairs
sufficient to keep the Highway in operation, though with some difficulty. The
consultants produced a report in June 1977 describing and analyzing the
failures and proposing remedial measures consisting, as far as drainage was
concerned, of a combination of deep french drains and horizontally drilled
drains into the earth slopes. They produced a rough initial estimation of the
amount of work involved, but it was considered that the final design for each
site could onLy be decided after drilling investigations were carried out.
Test vertical drilling was carried out in June/July 1978 to obtain undisturbed
soil samples and to insert piezometers to measure the soil water pressure in
each borehole. On the basis of these investigations, the consultant prepared
working drawings for the eight main failed areas. He also prepared a revised
schedule of quantities of work and, after agreeing unit rates with the ICC
force account unit, an estimate for K 964,000 was arrived at.
3.17      The ICC, after the test drilling had been completed, started on the
main remedial works in September 1978. The solution adopted at four of the
sites was a combination of deep french drains and horizontally-drilled
drains. On two others, a combination of deep french drains and surface cut-
off drains was adopted. On the remaining two sites, it was found more econo-
mical to construct or upgrade by-passes of the failed lengths. The work was
completed in September 1979 at a final cost, based on the measured quantities
of work and the agreed unit cost rates, of K 979,030, which is only 22 over
the estimate (including contingency allowances).
Sections (ii) Chuave-Kundiawa and (iii) Kundiawa-Garnigl (Paving)
3.18      Separate international advertisement and prequalification of con-
tractors for the proposed paving contract (of Sections (ii) and (iii)) were
carried out in 1978-79. This produced four qualified contractors in addition
to the seven prequalified for the earlier works. Altogether there were four
contractors from Australia, three from Korea, and one each from Japan, U.S.A.,
Italy and New Zealand. With the approaching end of the earthworks, drainage
and subbase construction, bid invitations for the paving were issued in
September 1979 and opened at the end of November. Of the three bids received,
the lowest was submitted by a PNG/New Zealand joint venture and the bid was
accepted in April 1980. Work was started in June 1980, with a contract com-
pletion date in August 1981. The work was to consist essentialLy of prepara-
tion of the already constructed subbase and the addition of a base course, and
double bituminous surface treatment, and the making up of the shoulders. How-
ever, as a number of the road sections had been open to traffic for prolonged
periods, some additional works were needed, including making up subbase
material which had been lost, correcting the deformities which had appeared,
and widening where necessary. In addition, some work was included for
repairing and stone pitching of table drains and the provision of guardrails,
guideposts and striping of the completed surface.
3.19      The contractor performed verv weLL on the contract.  Relations with
the supervising consultant were good and there was complete cooperation in



- 12 -
undertaking any additional works found necessary and coping with difficulties
which arose. Among the difficulties were civil disorders which occurred in
the Chimbu province. A further factor was considerably heavier than normal
rainfall that occurred in the period June through November 1981. The work was
substantially completed and all the road open to traffic in December 1981,
nominally about four months later than the completion date. However, exten-
sions of time were given principalLy for additional works (of some categories)
carried out, the unusually heavy rainfall, delay in obtaining delivery of
trucks (because delay by the Government in awarding the contract resulted in
late ordering of the equipment from overseas) and disruptions of works through
the civil disorders. The work was well carried out and the contractor submit-
ted no claims for additional payments, beyond the normal payments for measured
quantities of work. The final cost of the paving contract for the entire sec-
tion Chuave-Kundiawa-Garnigl was K 3,821,000 compared with the initial con-
tract sum of K 3,790,000 (exclutding physical and price contingency allo-
wances), or K 4,805,000 (including contingency allowances). The reasons that
the contingency allowances were not used were mainly that the bituminous prime
coat was found not to be needed on the surface of the base course as constrlc-
ted, and the price escalation was less than estimated.
3.20      The total cost of the construction of the three road sections was
K 20,947,000, compared with the appraisal estimate of K 19,550,000 (including
contingency allowances). The overrun, expressed in Kina, was therefore about
72. However, expressed in USS equivalent, the overrun was about 24X, because
of the appreciation of the Kina relative to the US$ during the construction
period (Table 2).
C. Detailed Engineering of Highlands Highway Waterais-Togoba
3.21      Following the decision in 1972 to improve the existing route
Waterais-Kundiawa, the Government had the Australian consultant who had done
the feasibility study of the Highlands Highway undertake detailed engineering
on the approximately 320 km length Waterais-Kundiawa-Togoba (para. 2.01). The
engineering was financed by the Government, with the understanding that the
cost would be considered for retroactive financing in the proposed Project.
The consultants started in September 1973, and substantially completed the
engineering in August 1974. The total cost was about US$1.08 million and pay-
ment was made by the Government. The foreign exchange cost of about
US$800,000 was financed retroactively in 1977 under the Credit.
3.22.     The engineering was carried out satisfactorily as far as it went.
However the time allowed (about 11 months) was not really adequate to enable
the consultants to carry out full investigations of the very difficult soil
conditions. In particular, as described in A. (paras. 3.12-3.16), it was
difficult to predict the angles of cut slopes required for stability in the
extremely variable shales and loose volcanic soils encountered. In practice,
rather general assumptions were made, based on Limited investigations, in
preparing the design drawings, and detailed modifications to the designs were
left to be done during construction as the ground was opened up. If more time
had been allowed, and more detailed investigations undertaken, at significant-
ly extra cost, somewhat closer designs might have been prepared, at least to
take into account the varying angles of dip of the shale. However, even then
i. would not have been possible to identiEy the locations and severity of rup-
turing of the shale caused by pre7ious earthquakes. In any case, the main



- 13 -
benefit of the extensive additional soil investigations would have been to
prepare somewhat closer estimates, rather than to change the actual work which
would be carried out during construction. Similar considerations apply to the
decision to leave detailed location and design of piped culverts to the con-
struction supervisory team, rather than take additional time and incur addi-
tional expenditure, during the design stage. The lack of detailed culvert
drawings at the beginning of the contract led to some arguments with the con-
tractor. However, it appears that any real delay or impediment to his work
was small, since the supervisory team apparently produced the detailed designs
promptly, early in the construction period.
3.23      The question of the balance of detailed engineering which should be
carried out in advance and the detailed design which may be Left to the super-
visory team, is of course debatable. It is normal to leave some details to
the supervisory team and, in any case, some design revisions are always found
to be required during the construction phase. Perhaps in PNC the tendency is
to be rather restrictive as to the amount of detaiLed engineering to be
carried out in advance. Nevertheless, the main problems which have arisen are
really due to the difficult soil and terrain conditions, rather than the
design efforts made before work starts or, for that matter, while construction
is in progress.
D. Rural Development Studies
3.24      Three of the provinces served by the Highlands Highway are Chimbu,
Enga, and Southern Highlands. The three provinces were targetted by the
Covernment for rural development projects. Preparation of a rural Project was
already underway for the Southern Highlands Province, but for Chimbu and Enga
Provinces, it was considered appropriate by the Government and the Bank to
include rural development project preparation studies in the Second Highlands
Road Improvement Project. Clearly the substantial upgrading of the Highlands
Highway, and the growth of traffic on it, is closely linked with the develop-
ment of the provinces for which it serves as the only surface transport
connection.
3.25      At the start of the Project, the Government indicated to the Bank
that before preparing detailed terms of reference for the Chimbu and Enga
studies it would prefer to complete the preparation of the Southern Highlands
Development Project, so as to incorporate the experience so gained. The Bank
accepted this proposal and rural development including the Southern Highlands
was included in the Rural Development Project (Credit 841-PNG for US$20 mil-
lion) in September 1978. The Terms of Reference for the Chimbu and Enga
Project preparation studies were agreed with the Bank in 1978, consultants
appointed, and work on the studies started in January 1979. about 18 months
later than originally planned. The Chimbu study was carried out by a joint
venture of two UK firms. The Enga studies were carried out by individual
consultants (mainly from Australia and New Zealand) engaged by the Government,
and by the Government's own staff. The studies were completed in June 1982.
3.26      The Government decided not to go ahead immediately with a rural
development project, based on the study. in the Chimbu province, possibly
influenced by the somewhat disturbed state of the province at that time.
However, the Enga study formed the basis for the Enga Provincial Development
Project, (Loan 2125-PNC for US$6 miLlion) in June 1982.



- 14 -
E. Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of Roads for Future Projects
3.27      This item provided for: (a) feasibility study of about 63 km of the
Togoba-Wapenamanda road, to be followed by detailed engineering if found
justified; and (b) updating of the 1972-73 feasibility study of the Highlands
Highway between Waterais and Togoba, to prepare for further stages of its
improvement.
3.28      Since the Togoba-Wapenamanda road is the chief route into the Enga
Province the Government proposed that its feasibility study be deferred and
carried out at the same time as the Enga Rural Development study. This was
agreed with the Bank and the Government accordingly appointed an Australian
firm of consultants in April 1979 to carry out the feasibility study and it
was completed in January 1980, a little more than two years later than origi-
nally scheduled. Although the study indicated that the road should be
improved, the works were not scheduled by the Government to start immediate-
ly. Also, at that time, it appeared likely that the total cost of the Second
Highlands Road Project would exceed the cost estimates. The Government there-
fore decided, in agreement with the Bank, to defer detailed engineering of the
Togoba-Wapenamanda road and include it instead in the proposed Third Highway
Project, and this was done.
3.29      The Government appointed UK consultants to update the previous
feasibility study of the Highlands Highway, Waterais-Togoba. Their work was
started in December 1978 and completed in September 1979, about 21 months
later than scheduled at appraisal. The study was used in the preparation and
appraisal of the Third Highway Project (Loan 1856-PNG for US$17 million/Credit
1030-PNG for US$13 million) in September 1980.
F. Technical Assistance to Local Civil Engineering Contractors
3.30      The Government appointed an Australian Consulting firm in September
1978 to perform these services. The firm provided an expert with wide experi-
ence in the civil engineering contracting industry, to formulate and carry out
a program suitable for developing the local contracting industry in PNG.
There were few local firms that had any significant ability and capacity to
undertake civil engineering works. Most such works of any magnitude were
carried out by expatriate firms, or their local subsidiaries. However, there
were many existing domestic small firms which owned and operated equipment
which they hired on an hourly rental basis. It was believed that, given some
training and assistance in getting started, a number of these firms might
graduate to undertaking the responsibility of contracts for carrying out works
and so help develop a more competitive local construction industry.
3.31      The intention was to provide the technical assistance in two
phases. The first phase would be to formulate a program, identify firms or
individuals to be included in it, and to carry out training programs for
them. The second stage would be to provide assistance to them in undertaking
and managing contracts. The first phase,was carried out between September
1978 and February 1980. At first the consultant identified a very large
number of local firms and individuals who owned equipment or vehicles for hire
on works. However, the bulk of them were owner-operators of single trucks.
Few were considered to have vehicles, equipment, and the potential to become
contractors. Eventually about 20 firms were identified as suitable for inclu-
sion in the program.



- 15 -
3.32      The consultant had first contemplated running a relatively formal
series of instruction courses at a single center. However, it was decided
that it would be more practical, and acceptable to the firms, to carry out a
series of courses in different parts of the country. Accordingly, the consul-
tant prepared material for the instruction and gave a number of such
courses. These were chiefly aimed at instruction in the principles of
contracting for civil works, general conditions of contracts, specifications
and drawings, estimating, bid preparation, job management, elementary costing
and financial control, and the selection and use of appropriate equipment.
These courses were to be followed by practical training on a number of small
projects, to be selected from the national or provincial works programs, and
the contractors given the opportunity to bid on them. The main instruction
was carried out by the construction industry expert. Some support was given
by a specialist on financial matters, and a training officer experienced in
teaching methods.
3.33      The 20 equipment-hire contractors deemed to have the potential LO
graduate in the near future to civil works contractors were invited to the
training sessions. The consultant produced two manuals in December 1978:
(a) Manual for Civil Engineering Contractors; and (b) Manual for Plant-Hire
contractors. With the completion of the first stage of the program in February
1980, the Government considered that there would be no purpose in continuing
with phase two since there were insufficient civil engineering works at that
time from which to select suitable small packages for trial/instruction
contracts for the candidate firms. The services of the consultant were then
terminated.
C. Costs of Project, and Disbursements
3.34      By late 1980, it was apparent that the construction works (base con-
struction and paving) of the Chuave-Kundiawa and Kundiawa-Garnigl sections
would run a year or a little more beyond the time expected at appraisal. By a
letter dated December 3, 1980, the Closing Date was extended by a year to
June 30, 1982. The construction was actually completed in December 1981, but
some payments continued into the first half of 1982, and the last disbursement
was made on June 10, 1982.
3.35      The total project cost was K 24.90 million, about 10% more than the
appraisal estimate of K 22.70 million (including contingency allowances).
However, in US$ equivalent, the cost was US$34.41 million, about 26% higher
than the appraisal estimate of US$27.24 million, because of the appreciation
of the Kina relative to the US dollar, during the construction period. About
K 1.4 million of the cost increase was in the construction works and about
K 0.8 million in consultant's services, mainly additional supervision because
of the time overrun. Disbursements totalled US$18.5 million against a Credit
of US$19.0 million and an amount of US$0.5 million was cancelled. This was
chiefly because the payment of K 2.68 million by the Government to settle
cLaims by the contractor (para. 3.09) had not been recommended by the supervi-
sory consultant, and no disbursement was made against it.



- 16 -
IV. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Department of Transport Works and Supply (DTWS)
4.01      The project had only limited direct institutional development
content in regard to the DTWS. At the time of appraisal in 1974, prior to
independence, the senior staff of DTWS, especially in professional posts, was
almost entirely expatriate. It was clear that it would be necessary to rely
heavily on expatriates for a prolonged period, since local staff was not
available, and was likely to become availabLe only slowly. The limitation was
the very restricted output of PNG nationals for relevant professions, particu-
larly engineers. The technical university of Lae had a school of engineering,
which could produce graduates in civil, mechanical and electrical engineer-
ing. However, its annual output of graduates was less than 20 because of the
small number of candidates available with sufficient education to be able to
undertake the courses. There was aLso a high wastage, extending even to some
students who could have completed the courses. Of those who finally gradu-
ated, only a proportion went into Government service, including the DTWS.
Clearly any acceleration of the output of engineers would be dependent on the
increase in numbers and standards of secondary school students and that would
be outside the scope of a highway project.
4.02       For postgraduate courses for PNG engineers, the Australian Govern-
ment was giving active assistance. It provided the courses and financing for
the students sent to Australia. Some financing for fellowships had been
included in the First Highway Project. However, this had been used only for
paying the cost of transport for the DTWS (then Public Works Department)
studencs to Australia and return.
4.03      For the lower grades of technical staff, the DTWS already had
training schools and courses which had been running for several years to
provide in-service training for its works staff. The main concern of the Bank
at negotiations was therefore that the Government should continue to provide
adequate professional staff and a covenant to this effect was included. It
was appreciated that a large proportion of the professional staff would have
to continue to be expatriate. After independence, such staff has been provid-
ed only on relatively short-term contracts, usually about 2-3 years, and there
has been a large turnover. Typically, in late 1979, the DTWS had provision
for about 150 professional posts, of which about 100 were filled, all by
expatriates, except for about 12 nationals. The situation has not greatly
improved since then, as less than 10 new graduates are obtained per year.
These have to be trained on the job, and given experience, and in the meantime
some wastage occurs in graduate nationals previously recruited. During the
course of the project, the DTWS was separated into the Department of Transport
and Civil Aviation (DTCA), and the Department of Works and Supply (DWS),
(para. 1.06). The position, in regard to the localization of the professional
posts is similar in the two Departments to that prevailing before the split.
B. Local Civil Engineering Construction Industry
4.04      As noted under Chapter III F. above, limited progress was made
through the technical assistance provided under the project. The position
remains that only a small number of local concractors exists, chiefly in or



- i1 -
near the main towns of Port Moresby and Lae, and virtually all larger scale
works are undertaken by expatriate firms, or local subsidiaries. However, the
numerous local equipment-hire firms continue to operate. The use of their
equipment by the Department of Works and Supply (DWS) has become an establish-
ed practice, and it amounts to force account works as far as management, and
supply of labor and materials are concerned, but it has the merit of avoiding
the Department having to provide and maintain a Lot of construction equip-
ment. The equipment element of road works undertaken by the DWS wouLd proba-
bly account for 30% to 50% of the total costs. Nevertheless, it would be
desirable to develop a local construction industry, even if initially on a
modest scale. To promote this, it may be necessary for the Government to
divide projects into smaller contract segments, and this would admittedly
involve somewhat more supervision. Nevertheless, it would particularly in the
longer term provide more competition and avoid the Government continuing to
have to depend on expatriate firms to carry out the buLk of the major civil
works program. These objectives are to be pursued under the latest Road
Improvement Project (LoRn 2265-PNG for US$31 million of April 1983).
C. Road Transport Industry
4.06      After the start of the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project.
later in 1977 the laws governing the licensing and reguLation of road trans-
port were made significantly more restrictive. In particular, whereas there
had previously been reLatively little attempt to restrict the numbers of
vehicles operating, under the new regulations, rather severe restrictions were
imposed on new licenses, and rGutes and tariffs were regulated. The restric-
tions were particularly severe for expatriate operators, as a major objective
of Government has been to favor the shifting of ownership and operation of
vehicles to PNG nationals. For example, the new regulations prevented expa-
triates from expanding or upgrading their vehicle fleets, and licenses were
issued only for a period of a year. The larger road haulage firms were origi-
nally expatriate owned and they operated the bulk of the larger vehicles
including the semi-trailers for long distance haulage. The effect of Govern-
ment regulation has been to force them into local ownership.
4.07      The cutting off of expatriate ownership and financing may help to
explain why the upgrading of vehicles, including the introduction of semi-
trailers, failed to occur after the improvement of the Highlands Highway under
the Second Highlands Road Project. Furthermore, the restriction in licensing
of additional vehicles led to a lack of competition in the industry and the
raising of rates charged to shippers in many cases well beyond the costs of an
efficient haulier. This was noted at the time of appraising the Third Highway
Project in 1979. It was noted that the haulage rates charged by operators
were not sensitive to improving road conditions; rather, they appeared to
increase the profit margins of the operators. This raised doubt as to the
economic benefits of improving roads, if they were not passed on to the
shippers and through them to consumers and the general economy. Accordingly,
a covenant was included in the Credit Agreement (1030-PNG) for the Third
Highway Project that a proposal., to be agreed with the Bank, would be
submitted by June 30, 1981 to the National Executive Council for the deregu-
lation of the trucking industry. However. such proposals were not presented
and the latest position is that the subject of Road Transport Regulation will
be included in the studies to be carried out under the Road Improvement
Project (Loan 2265-PNG).



- 18-
4.08      A further aspect of motor vehicle regulations is the question of the
legal limits for weights and dimensions. Under the agreement for Credit 677-
PNG the Government undertook to discuss with the Bank any proposals for
changes in such regulations, which are the responsibility of the Minister for
Police. It is understood that some new regulations, to relax somewhat the
currently restrictive regulations were drafted, but have not been approved.
The draft would have permitted an increase in maximum axle weight from 8.2 to
8.5 metric tons. It may be questioned whether a somewhat higher axle and
vehicle weight limits should be adopted in view of the substantial upgrading
which has taken place in the Highlands Highway in recent years, and the sensi-
tivity of the costs of road transport to the size of loads which can be
carried. Since the proposed new regulations have been held up for several
years, it seems appropriate to reexamine the economic basis for them and to
consider a possibly greater relaxation.
D. Road Maintenance
4.09      The national roads are still being reasonably well maintained.
However, there are signs that the attention being given to maintenance may be
slipping. The budget allocations are now no more in financial terms than they
were ten years ago, while costs have increased during that time. During the
appraisal of the Second Highlands Project in 1974, it was noted that repairs
of the national roads were being executed promptly and the standard of mainte-
nance was generally good, taking into account the poorly developed state of
the roads.  However, at the present time, it is noticeable that repairs,
including settlements and potholes on paved surfaces, do not appear to be
identified and carried out promptly in many cases. On the organizational
question, considerations have been made over a number of years to separate the
road maintenance function from the construction function within the Department
of Works and Supply. However, the separation has not yet been done with the
field staff, with a probable consequent lack of emphasis given to mainte-
nance.  The provision of adequate maintenance budgets, and the setting up of a
regular maintenance organization in the DWS should be given high priority.
E. Right of Way and Land Acquisition
4.10      Covenants have been included in each project for the Covernment to
provide promptly, and in advance of contracts, the right of way and other land
required for road projects. However, some problems arose on the Second High-
lands Road Project in regard to right-of-way, and land required for obtaining
materials, or disposing of excess excavation, though the problems did not
generally cause major disruption to the works. However, the position seems to
be worsening in subsequent projects. The trouble seems to stem from the fact
that land in rural areas is not generally registered, and it is difficult to
establish the ownership and therefore to negotiate its purchase. The Bank has
repeatedly raised this question, and the Long-term solution seems to be to
register land, although this may be a major undertaking, outside the scope of
a highway project.
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
5.01      The proiect's main objective was to assist in the development of the
central Highlands Region by providing for the first time a reliable all



- 19 -
weather highway through the region to the main port of Lae. This was achieved
by reconstructing and paving three priority sections of the highway which were
of low standard, steep and subject to serious interruptions of traffic caused
by soil slips and sometimes large scale land slides.
5.02      Prior to appraisal the Government had prepared a seven year program
to carry out their improvement and paving of the Highlands Highway from Lae ti
Togoba, a total of 475 km. The three sections totaling 68 km included in the
project were identified as having the highest priority. A feasibility study
of the improvement and paving of the Highlands Highway was completed by con-
sultants in 1972-73, followed by detailed engineering in 1973-74. The feasi-
bility study was updated for the three selected road sections in late 1976
following receipt of bids for the earthworks and drainage (para. 2.10). At
the time these studies were carried out traffic ranged between 300 and
450 aadt with the proportion of trucks ranging from 30% to 50%. However, due
to the poor condition of the road and steep terrain most trucks were of the
small to medium category and one of the major benefits of the improvement was
to alter significantly the composition of traffic by making it possible for
semi-trailers to operate on the road thereby resulting in productivity
increases and reduced transport costs.
5.03      Vehicle operating costs were estimated by consultants for various
types of vehicles on roads in various conditions using modeling techniques to
arrive at the benefits from the road improvements with and without the
project. Economic rates of return for the three separate road sections were
calculated over an assumed 20 year life of the investments and, at appraisal
ranged between 18% and 64%, with an overall rate of 27.5%.
5.04      Project benefits were recalculated in 1983 by using data supplied by
Covernment on traffic and vehicle operating costs. Table 5 compares forecast
totals of traffic at appraisal and actual total traffic counts taken in 1983
for the three project roads being reevaluated. Of particular significance is
the fact that while traffic has met or exceeded appraisal estimates for 1983,
it is not expected that future growth will occur at the rates forecast at
appraisal and that in the case of the Asaro-Watabung and Kundiawa-Carnigl
roads, traffic in the year 2002 will be Lower than appraisal estimates. Also
to be noted is the fact that the forecasts made of semitrailer traffic appear
to have been over-optimistic. However, it now appears that this is due to
restrictive regulatory practices which require annual operating licenses and
which favor local carriers who do not have the capital required to purchase
the larger more efficient trucks.
5.05      Comparison of the ERR's estimated at appraisal with the corres-
ponding values derived from reappraisal yields the following results:
Appraisal    Reappraisal
1.  Asaro-Watabung                             64.0          29.00
2.  Chuave-Kundiawa                            25.1           11.00
3.  Kundiawa-Garnigl                           18.3          17.00
Overall ERR                                27.5          15.9



- 20 -
5.06      Tables 6, 7 and 8 Road Improvements:  (comparison of Net Benefit
flows at Appraisal and Reappraisal) contain the detailed information from
which the above summary has been derived. The individual ERRs are lower than
estimated at appraisal due to delays in construction and the lower than expec-
ted benefits attributed to the use of smaller trucks than assumed at
appraisal.  Nevertheless, the overall ERR while lower than the appraisal esti-
mate is still above the opportunity cost of capital and suggests that the road
improvements were indeed needed and that the investments were justified.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      The project achieved its principal purpose of providing, for the
first time, a virtually all weather road into the Central highlands region, to
facilitate its development. Through its studies and engineering, the project
also helped prepare further projects, which are presently underway, with Bank
financing, in the highlands. These include the Third Highway Project (Loan
i.156/Credit 103-PNG), the Enga Provincial Development Project (Loan 2125-PNG),
and parts of the Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG) (para. 3.01).
6.02      The three sections of the Highlands Highway constructed under the
project were chosen because their soil and terrain conditions presented
particularly severe difficulties to traffic, especially during the prolonged
season of h^-vy rainfall. The landslides and major slips in the earthwork
cuttings, which frequently blocked traffic, have been practically elimi-
nated. The work took about a year longer than scheduled, but their successful
completion is still a commendable achievement under exceptionally difficult
conditions.  The cost of the works, in Kina, exceeded the estimate by 7% (24%
in US$ equivalent). Also the traffic increase, and upgrading of the types of
vehicles in use, have not been as great as forecast; this is probably due to
the effects of economic recession and restrictive vehicle regulations. Never-
theless, the economic reevaluation shows an average ERR of about 16%, which
indicates that the investments were justified (paras. 2.06, 3.02, 3.20 and
5.04-5.06).
6.03      Only modest progress was made with some institutional and transport
policy issues. The recruitment and training of PNC nationals for professional
posts is proceeding slowly and the Departments of Transport and Civil Aviation
(DTCA), and of Works and supply (DWS) must continue to rely very greatly on
expatriate staff. The reason is chiefly the lack of sufficient qualified
candidates for the engineering school. Maintenance of the national roads,
while still fairly good, is showing signs of slipping, and needs greater
emphasis. This would be easier to achieve if the DWS separated its mainte-
nance operations from construction, but this has not yet been done with its
field staff (paras. 4.03 and 4.09).
6.04      Limited progress was also achieved with the development of the local
construction industry and efforts should be made to provide relatively small
contract packages which would give opportunities for potential local contrac-
tors to enter the Eield and gain practical experience (para. 4.05). Acquisi-
tion of right of way remains a long and troublesome process and the situation
appears to be even more difficult for provincial rural roads. A radical soLu-



- 21 -
tion, such as involving registration of land. would be a major undertaking
(para. 4.10). An important outstanding issue is the regulation of road trans-
port. Action should be taken to overcome the apparently damaging economic
effects of restrictive licensing of commercial road vehicles (paras. 4.06-
4.08). Most of these issues have been under review and are to be addressed
further under the ongoing Road Improvement Project (Loan 2265-PNG), and
possible future projects.



iv     /           -=L!  ,, :so
- e- er



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 670-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual and Expected Project Implementation
% of the
Completion        works com-
'lid receipt       Contract award       Beginning of work         of work           pleted by
Length                                                                                                         expected corn-
Project component           (km)      Contractor   Actual    Expected  Actual    Expected  Actual    Expected  ACtual    Expected  pletion date
A. Construction & Improvement of
3 sections of the High-
lands Highway:
(i) ASaro-Watabun8
Contracts:
28-30-502      (culvert)                     10/19/76  10/19/76  02/15/77  02/15/77  03/07/77  03/07/77  09/03/77  09/03/77              100
28-30-503              18                     10/19/76  10/19/76  02/15/77  02/15/77  03/07/77  03/07/77  08/10/79  08/29/78              75
(Li) Chuave-Kundiawa
Contracts:
28-30-501        (bridge)                     10/19/76  10/19/76  02/15/77  02/15/77  03/07/77  03/07/77  02/20/78  06/30/80             100
28-30-504/505       18.5                     10/19/76  10/19/76  02/15/77  02/15/77  03/29/77  03/29/77  08/29/80  06/30/80               95
28-30-506            8.5                        (Force account)   07/23/76  07/23/76  07/23/76  07/23/76  05/07/79  10/31/79             100
28-30-507 /a         (27)                    11/30/79  03/01/78  04/14/80  05/01/78  06/12/80  06/01/78  12/19/81  09/30/80               40
(paving)
(iii) Kundlawa-Garnigl
Contracts:
28-30-500             23                        (Force account)   09/14/78  06/01/77  09/14/78  06/01/77  09/01/79  12/31/79              100
(remedial measures)
28-30-508 /a         (23)                    11/30/79  03/01/79  04/14/79  05/01/79  06/12/80  06/01/79  12/15/81  09/30/80               40
(paving)
Total              68
/  H
/a SeParate COntraCtS fOr PaVing8 after completion Of COntraCts EOr earthWOrkS, drainage and SUbbaSe. 



Actual and Expected Project Implementation
Z of the works comr-
Beginning of work  Completion of work   pleted by expected
Project component                                             Actual    Expected  Actual    Expected    completion date
B. Detailed Engineering of
the Highlands Highway:
Waterais-Togoba (317 km)
-         -       .12/74   (Retroactive financing)
C. Rural Development Project
Preparation Studies
In the Provinces of:                                        01/15/79  07/01/77  06/30/82  09/30/78
Chimbu
Enga
D. Feasibility Studies
(l) For the construction                                     04/07/79  06/01/77  01/31/80  12/31/77
and improvement of 63 km
of Togoba-Wapenamanda road
(ii) Updating existing                                        12/01/78  06/01/71  09/30/79  12/31/77
feasibility study of the
Highlands Highway
Waterais-Togoba
E. Technical Assistance
To local civil engineering                                09/01/78  11/01/77  02/28/80  08/31/79           About 50Z      n S
contractors                                                                                                                 1 &
N
I-



PAPUA N!W GUIlNA
sEeo9D HIGHIWIDS ROAD 11Q8M1MIT PROJECT (CUEDIT 670-Pm)
PawOcr OYWLETIOH RZPOIT
1ca   nd Apualoal EatIste  of Cost
(tI  kito  'hg                tod *nd slo  In equivalent US2 thouosadl
Actual cost
Contract                                                                                                                                                                   I '    orm orttOo e2
Ount                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actuol Coat. s lappraisal                                                   Appraisal sat.1      Conr"tract1 
(lIt lit             1977                                                  19ln   o9I9  19 _0   19S1           1982             Totl          etis c         ost    of  olt (2)                e(2)
Project cooponant                     KInn or   use   ra or  Usl                oIN  or  UCJ    tis or  USI    Kiss or  U55    rtin  or -                    CS    Atex or 015        Ki.   or    IISS    tn hls  1  IISS  10 iris I 0
1. Cen;truetlon 6 Itprovexont
of I astloog of the Hgh-
lande HlIhvaf;
(GI Aro-VAtabun   It hk
Contreetel
2-o-50-02 (bot culnart              9 t              69       8 S7      -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -      69       87
18-10-SOl (contract           3I066 O     ,219     8          e 1,097  803   3,334      227      119        -       -          -       -        -        -   3898   2,550
subtotal (a)
focl. cont. allovwnces         1.131   3.162         Z        Z         -       Z        Z                 Z        -         Z        -          -               Z        Z     1.011      1.214
Inl. cont. *llovaoreo             -        -      937 1   184       803   1.134        277      39                              : _                          1.965   2.637    1. '          .l   *      1I2  I1S          171      122
(b) ChwAe,-lundlava 27 km
Cotd rct l:
28-30-501                         214      217      l83      231       44   o 2          22       11 -              -                                           249      324
18-30-104/05 (contract)        5.893   7,072   3,224   6,202   1,427   2,031  3,373   1,930   1,624   2,124    2.680    1,961                   -        -  10.228  1,2.1
2e-10-0  (forc  ace.)          2,413   2,917   2,753    3,492         704      996      26       3431       -        -         -       -        -        -   3,7013       819
28-33-307 (pavina)             2.683   3,11          -        -        -        -        -        -   1.0S7    ,1576    3,04)   ,1SS1          -        -   2102   1,310
Subtotal (b)
cl. *ool. ltonance            11.I1    13.17                  Z         Z        Z        -       a         -                 Z                 Z                          -    9_.742    II.690
Intl. cont. allowances                      -   i.O2e2   7.915   2.I1       1.070   1.517   2,106   2.tSI   3.700    1.72S    51.9              -        -  16.262  221528   13.172        16.O06         IZ     360 3S46           168
(c) Eundiawa-Carnlai 23 km
Contracts,
28-30-300 (force ace.)            964   1,611         -        -      371      524     608       SSA       -        -         -        -        -         -     979   13,78
2a-30-508 (paving)             2,162   2,U94          -        -        -                 -        -      66   I,X9           55   1 ,272        -        -   1,719   2,143
Subtotal (c)
focl. coat. allowancso          3.12t   t.232         -                Z                                   Z                                                      Z              3.490      4.388
Inl. coot. allowances                               -         -     371      124      608      61         A   1.289        8S5    1.272                      2.698   2_939    4.790        1,748          16     G9        86       94
Total Conatr. * I!orow.:
fuel. ront, allowances        1%.662  18.S91                   -       _        _                                                                        -             -        14.243     17.,092
Inel. cont. allovaness                           1.199   9.s09     1   9   4.728   2.676   1.477   3.341   6.989    4.580   6.933               Z         Z  20 947  29.104   19.SS0    23.410            107    124       l33       313
/   Aosounts puld In hina have been converted Into usS oqutrolect at average rates for each year CUSS per kins)i - 19717  $1.2FA; 12979; *1.4117; 197S9  Sl.t0331 I"90  81.49136   198; S1.68713; 1982  $1.31559.



Actual and Meoralist ntimtes *F Cast
(in kilo  thousand   d also i equilent    "t           )
hntml et
Cataract                                                                                                                                                        as a prn"ortlfe of
maca4t                                                            Mts   et   sIpraimal                                                                    Appresal esat.    C2csuant
(initial)           1971             3975             1979                etc0          19531           1392              Totals      estite of cost         of coat ttL       sto   ct
treject eoeoonet                     Kiss or  US$   Tins or  15'7  iusa or  us5    Lis  or  05-5                         is   oar 5$    Kiss or  05        Kiss or 5S$       Kis   o                    or         IL8-Is   or  CSS
Total Constr. * lrow.: (from Page 13
gul. cont. allorassee        15.526  33"9          Z                Z                                                                             - Z                - 14.243   17.092
Inel. cont. allovaces                     z        99     9 099 3 349   *.728   2.474   3 477   3.345   4.9t9    4f50    6 .I                -       20.947  29.104   19.550   23.460       107      124      132      153
: Gultnt 335 Services
Csa V.iiilee enslnesrln  oft Illslsl
Mtgwfy. Watsrtli-Togobs (IO)  900   1,080/b   900           3.00       -       -        -       -        -       -         -       -        -       -      9     1.00        900   1060       100      100     100      100
(h) 5BasTwlsion:
CA) Naiulssnat of forts
account workts (SC)                              IS0       390  I30       254      173     243       35      50         -       -       -        -     535      737
i  Supertlslos of
Coostructlon (Vli)               Il              53S        65e   38o      545      402     565      212     3l       26       324       -        -   1,731   2,391
Subtotal Supetvieiom,
Cxcl. cont. sllolasseoe                                             Z           -                                                                                       1 -  Z  Z -  -OS- 3.095    1.313
tact. eost. s1i1sess              -        -     69         o S 566        799     575        e      247     35L      21       324                    2.275   3.132     1.503    1.602       153     174        -
(e  Rral DevulopretntStieado of
Fgs  A ChAbau prowlacas            Le.
Incl. cout. Slovesces             =                                          -       -Z                                                   - Z-                     -      206       250
Incl. ont. allsa_ee                                Z          Z                     220     30        70               90      134      60       51     440      623      2It       343      154     IU
(t iht b  3Se             " ,.A      120     14         -         -      -       -      106     152       12       17        -       -        -       -      120      169
(snadals & Freteara)
(ii) Updsting feasib. atidis af
UNghsnds  1  Watersls           To       64       -          _     _        _      70        6        _       _                 _                       70       98
Tosobs (RUT Ite. Std.
Crop)
Subtotal Feasibillat Sandia.
ael. coot. allesacese          190      225                                         Z                                  _Z:                                        :      20o       250
stel. cont. sllol ce              -                           -0 176                        250       12      17                                        190      267      256       343               76      100      Ill
(a) technical Assistaseal
To local civil eonlneerizg ca-
tractors (Hsndel a Psrtmre)
lzal, cont. alloasces          150      180                             -                                                                        -Z                      12=5      ISO
tlac. cont. tlloseses             -        -o                               56      90      326       38      23                                        I" 1     20?      u0        206       07     IOD       f       11
Total Consultants' Service:
Eant, cant. allovaoee             -                                          -                _                                                                         2.536    3.043
*nul. cont. allcascs             -            I 569      1 926   606      8S5   1.063   1 493      367      492      306      45S      60       81   3.953   5.305    3.145   3.f7i         126     140        -        _-
Crsad Total:                                                                                                                                                                                                                      u
txcl. eont. ollwsm                                 Z          Z     Z16.779   20.135                                                                                                                                           N 
Incl cont. allosasscs                           _ 76U    11302S 3.935  53.53   3.5317  4.970   3,692   9 U4l    4 388   7.269           60     81  24.900  34.409   22.696   27.235          110     126        -        - o
Anouts paid    htoiss have bees converted into US$ equtvalent at average rates for eacb year (3168 per kiss). - 1977: 31.2640; 1975s 31.41171 1979: *3.t053  1930: 61.4916: 3981S 81.48713  1982. 31.3559.
I    etroactive finsneluc       of detailed ensgneering.
Ic. Contracts for superviston snd for rural daevlopmsnt studies  vere co a bests of reisbureemat for actual sn-_ouths of serces provided.



- 27 -
Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 670-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Kina/'OOO km)
Paved road surface                Unpaved road surface
Very           Inter-              Very           Inter-
Slope                rough  Rough  mediate  Smooth    rough  Rough  mediate  Smooth
Motor Cars
Very steep          127    123      118      113         194   177      162     155
Steep               119    115      110      105         187   171      157     149
Rolling             115    111      106      101         181   168      154     147
Flat                119    115      110      105         179   166      153     146
Small Commercial
Very steep          309    296      281      266         479   409      364     342
Steep               245    260      245      231        440   392      347      326
Rolling             263    249      235      220        419   376       333     311
Flat                261    248      233      218        409   371       330     310
Medium Commercial
Very steep          564    549      576      519         747   672      610     575
Steep               474    459      444      428        714   689      587      553
Rolling             373    434      419      403         687   629      570     536
Flat                433    417      403      387        670   615      557      524
Heavy Commercial
Very steep          744    721      698      675       1,082   953      746     797
Steep               660    637      614      591      1,059   923      828      772
Rolling             625    602      579      556         999   854      804     751
Flat                605    582      559      536        962   877      612      736



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 670-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Traffic Survey Conducted, 1983
Highway sections                     Asaro-Watabung              Chuave-Kundiawa              Kundiawa-Garnigl
(18 km)                     (27 km)                       (68 km)
Location of count               Watabung, at trade store    Simbu River bridge at         Koronigl River bridge at
Chainage 376.0 km            Chainage 396.6 km
Days counted                             7 days                       9 days                       15 days             X
Vehicle Type
Car                                      160                          265                           888
Small commercial                       1,183                        3,244                        6,271
Medium commercial                        390                          836                        2,389
Heavy commercial                         272                          479                           726
(Semitrailer)                          (87)                        (118)                        (207)
Total, 12-Hour Count                2,005                       4,824                        10,274
12-hour average                            286                          536                          685
24-hour ADT /a                             372                          697                           890
/a 24-hour ADT have been arrived by multiplying 12-hour counts by the conversion factor of 1.30, based on
the results of 24-hour counts elsewhere in Papua New Guinea.
I&a
a



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 670-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Traffic Projections on Highlands Highway, 1974-2002 - Apraisal and Actual AADT
Asaro-Watabung                     Chuave-Kundiawa                        Kundiawa-Garnigl
highway section                     highway section                        highway section
Of which                              Of which                            _  Of which
Medium      Semi-                     Medium      Semi-                     Medium       Semi-
Year       Total      trucks   trailers        Total        trucks   trailers        Total        trucks    trailers
1974     205         80          2          295            84           2          438           105           3         0
1977     237         28         24          343            31          25          523            43          29
1982     372 (372)  38 (72)   37 (16)    533   (697)  41 (121)   39 (17)    782   (890)   57                  43 (18)
1987     565 (435)  47          54          798   (815)  52           56        1,146 (1,041)   67 (207)   63
1992     729 (529)  56          73        1,008   (991)  58            76        1,438 (1,226)   79           87
1997     818 (615)  57          88        1,034 (1,148)  59           91        1,164 (1,467)   92           104
2002   1,025 (715)  57         107        1,082 (1,331)  60           111        2,007 (1,701)  107          133
Note:  Figures in brackets represent projections based on 1983 counts.
'-
S"



- 30 -                             Table 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 670-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Road Improvement: Comparison of Net Benefits of Appraisal (1976)
and Reappraisal (1983) - Asaro-Watabung
Appraisal                             Reappraisal
Year         Net benefits           Costs          Benefits          Net benefits
1976               -30             13,410                0             -13,410
1977            -1,055              6,128                0              -6,128
1978                257             4,200            2,592              -1,608
1979               909              5,325            3,007              -2,318
1980                963             7,537            3,895              -3,641
1981             1,007                  0            5,827               5,827
1982             1,051                  0            6,060               6,060
1983             1,137                  0            6,303               6,303
1984               976                  0            6,555               6,555
1985             1,314                  0            6,817               6,817
1986             1,405                  0            7,090               7,090
1987             1,493                  0            7,373               7,373
1988             1,645                  0            7,668               7,668
1989             1,548                  0            7,975               7,975
1990             1,952                  0            8,294               8,294
1991             2,104                  0            8,626               8,626
1992             2,260                  0            8,884               8,884
1993             2,324                  0            9,151               9,151
1994             2,141                  0            9,425               9,425
1995             2,456                  0            9,708               9,708
1996             2,522                  0           10,000              10,000
1997             2,589                  0           10,300              10,300
1998             2,639                  0           10,609              10,609
ERR29%               64%                                                    29%



Table 7
- 31 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 670-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Road Improvement: Comparison of Net Benefits of Appraisal (1976)
and Reappraisal (1983) - Chuave-Kundiawa
Appraisal                               Reappraisal
Year          Net benefits           Costs           Benefits          Net benefits
1976               -775              5,701                 0              -5,071
1977             -5,937              2,047                 0              -2,047
1978             -3,740              1,561               705                 -856
1979                222               2,250              735              -1,515
1980              3,031               3,311            1,530              -1,781
1981              3,238                   0            1,594                1,594
1982              3,454                   0            1,658                1,658
1983              3,687                   0            1,724                1,724
1984              3,922                   0            1,793                1,793
1985              3,796                   0            1,865                1,865
1986              4,393                   0            1,939                1,939
1987              4,630                   0            2,017                2,017
1988              4,961                   0            2,098               2,098
1989              5,293                   0            2,182                2,182
1990              5,269                   0            2,269               2,269
1991              5,960                   0            2,360                2,360
1992              6,293                   0            2,430               2,430
1993              6,429                   0            2,503                2,503
1994              6,567                   0            2,578               2,578
1995              6,343                   0            2,656                2,656
1996              6,839                   0            2,735                2,735
1997              6,978                   0            2,817                2,817
1998              7,162                   0            2,902                2,902
1999              7,348                   0            2,989                2,989
ERR.               25.1Z                                                       11X



Table 8
- 32 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 670-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Road Improvement: Comparison of Net Benefits of Appraisal (1976)
and Reappraisal (1983) - Kundiawa-Garnigl
Appraisal                              Reappraisal
Year         Net benefits           Costs          Benefits          Net benefits
1976               -90              6,758                 0             -6,758
1977              -612              3,286                0              -3,286
1978            -1,536              2,345            1,567                -778
1979            -1,497              3,075            1,632              -1,443
1980               681              4,226            1,700              -2,526
1981               737                   0           3,541               3,541
1982               804                   0           3,683               3,683
1983                826                  0           3,830               3,830
1984               844                   0           3,983               3,983
1985               562                   0           4,142               4,142
1986               881                   0           4,308               4,308
1987               901                   0           4,480               4,480
1988               941                   0           4,660               4,660
1989                981                  0           4,846               4,846
1990               721                   0           5,040               5,040
1991              1,062                  0           5,242               5,242
1992              1,103                  0           5,399               5,399
1993             1,121                   0           5,561               5,561
1994             1,141                   0           5,728               5,728
1995               860                   0           5,899               5,899
1996             1,181                   0           6,076               6,076
1997              1,202                 0            6,259               6,259
1998             1,237                   0           6,446               6,446
1999              1,280                  0           6,440               6,440
ERR                18.3Z                                                     17%



PAPUJA NEW GIJINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD
w.  .                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
WEiS r                                                                                                                                                                    C.- tsmiCon and l"7oe7wnr   Firmt P10*1c
e c c w v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ 0  Fodbsl-ty Sturh                                                                                    Lo  n 69Codit 20A
*                            . '              s    /      . /   9 E   ; #   : 7~~~~~~ ......... !OtLbi;itV StuLty VW ErVW*V
_@PJ * iV2>s>\\\ot|> iR >%%- |e1t , N.lts,, -C<-nrbstbdtrnpf>t * $ndPtq ct *odnoverient4 $404 OtP"                                                                           S
,   >   >,5 !1>> .-_   i   *)  ;,L,                     .,,,                                                       Msa.-olatw 4_IZE00-3;~~~~~~~~~Bundw
_   l   *      \                C\t 349~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~\  ~~~ rYDA186  q~ ~~Mwnxn    AfaWO .    itDtJ ee3                       x     ni
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AV                                                                         lAimsibrj  AmO    3,, D.ftltt~JB
vs~~~~ t                                         ....1_..vo.
-~~~~~ NF> Gtt,4                                                                                                              
|~~~~Lk K't"''' ^9  '-^"l*D'^< M9   R XBEf
1bst  i  ;  .............. i~~~~~~~~W                                                                                                               L- -  f. 
s.s                                                               ,^^,            t    ^    ;;<   '  -, ......................... 1 - - ; ~~~MWETr . -S< ;/
t   ',  ;U  {  ,;5_ , rj sl , t 4 J | A  7\
r*^#   ,   i  |.,v'^1  @                                                                                                             .'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
usl"l b;  t    >'    +_                   '                       i #      f   Pe e                                            nrish,#^                     ,- c



