Report No. 1250a-PNG                                                                   L
Appraisal of a Second Highlands Road
Improvement Project
Papua New Guinea
January 11, 1977
Transportation Division
East Asia & Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit            =     Papua New Guinea Kina (K) 1/
US$1                     =     K 0.83
K 1                           US$1.20
K 1 million              =     US$1,200,000
* The exchange rate is floating, but the rate used in this
report is indicated above.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   -   June 30 (until December 31, 1977)
January 1   -   December 31 (from January 1, 1978)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                           British/US Equivalent
1 meter                    =     3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilojneter           2   =     0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  =      0.3861 square miles (sq. mi)
1 kilogram (kg)            =     2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 me'tric ton (m ton)      =     2,204 lbs or 1.1023 US short ton
(sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aadt    -    Annual average daily traffic
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
DTW     -    Department of Transport, Works and Supply
OT      -    Office of Transport
NWA     -    National Works Authority
PNG     -    Papua New Guinea
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme
VLD     -    Vallentine, Laurie and Davies (Australian Consultants)
1/ New Papua New Guinea currency, the "Kina" was introduced in April 1975.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  .....o...... ...........  .........................                            i- i
Is     INTRODUCTION  ..1......................                                 ..oo ...            1
II.      THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR  ..o ...........      ........ ..........                           2
A.   Geographic, Demographic and Economic Background ..    2
B.     Recent  Developments  in  the  Sectoro........o.......                              4
C.     Transport  Administration  and  Planning  so.so.............                        5
D.     Transport  Coordination  ............................                               6
III.      HIGHWAYS  o...o....................                     ............o                       6
A.    The  Network  .......* ......... . ... .........                       .....         6
B.     Traffic   ............ *............... .... ..........                             7
C.   Administration ..o                    ....        ................ ..*. ..    8
Do     Planning  ............ .........                  -oo ............... see ....o.o..  9
E.     Financing          . ..... . . .. ... .   * .. .   ...  * .o........*.... .s . ......  .  10
Fo     Engineering  .................                o..o........................o..o.....  11
Go     Construction   o..o. oo .......................... o......... oo    ... ..o.       11
H.     Maintenance  sees....................................... ..........                12
I.     Training  o..o......           es...   oo .....      os.... o............. .......o .....  12
IV.      THE  PROJECT  .... oo  ... ..o..oo                   ................... ..               13
A.     Description  ..... ... *... *........                 ...... .....o..................  13
B.     Cost  Estimates  and  Foreign  Exchange  Component  ....                           16
C.     Financing  ......  . ..                 ........        .. .000 ...                19
D.      Implementation                 ........ .....0000............... ..............   19
E.     Disbursements  . . . . .           ................ .        .. .... .....         21
V.     ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  o .... o...                 ......o .........                       21
Ao    General   .. ..... ... *  .... . . . ........   ....... . .... .*.                  21
B.     Development  Potential  and  Traffic  o                    o............... .      22
C.     Benefits  of  the  Project  ...........see............                             23
VI.      RECOMMENDATIONS  ..o ......   * .. ....... . ......  ..o..o. . ....                       25
This Report was prepared by Messrs. P. R. Morris (Engineer) and S. Y. Park
(Economist).



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Description of Highlands Highway Sections to be Constructed
and Improved
TABLES
1.   Public Roads Networks 1975
2.   Vehicle Fleet - Number of Vehicles on Register 1963-74
3.   Air Freight Movements at Highlands Airports 1963-75
4.   Expenditures on Roads 1968-76
5.   Revenues from Use and Ownership of Vehicles
6.   Design Standards for Rural Roads
7.   Estimated Cost of Project
8.   Project Implementation Schedule
9.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
10.   Regional Income Data for Four Highlands Provinces
11.   Past and Projected Road Freight between Highlands and
Coastal (Lae) Regions
12.   Traffic Projections on Highlands Highway 1974-2002
13.   Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
14.   Net Benefit and Cost Flows
CHART
World Bank 16758 - Department of Transport, Works and Supply: Organization
MAP
IBRD No. 11428 Ri



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Development of the Central Highlands interior of Papua New Guinea
(PNG) has been hampered by poor communications, although about 40% of the
total population lives in the area and it has high economic potential. Until
about 10 years ago, the area depended almost entirely on air transport. How-
ever, a road has been constructed, initally as a track, and gradually im-
proved partly under the First Highway Project, but it is still inadequate
for present and projected traffic. The Government now aims to complete over
a seven-year period the improvement, including paving, of the Highlands High-
way from the main port of Lae to Togoba, west of Mount Hagen. Towards this
end, the project will improve and pave three priority sections in mountainous
terrain with unstable soils and steep gradients. This will, for the first
time, permit reasonably reliable, all-weather, low cost land transport for
the area.
ii.       Improvement of the Highlands Highway, though an essential pre-
condition for further development in the Central Highlands, is not alone
sufficient to ensure that rapid development will take place. Rural Develop-
ment Project Preparation Studies in the Enga and Chimbu Provinces of the
Central Highlands have therefore been included in the project, as well as
feasibility studies and engineering of the Togoba-Wapenamanda Road, which
links the Enga Province with the Highlands Highway.
iii.      The Government originally proposed that the project include improve-
ment and paving of all the 302 km length of the Highlands Highway presently
unpaved between Kassam and Togoba and this was included in the appraisal in
1974. However, it was agreed that before negotiating the credit, bids would
be obtained for the works. When bids were received in March 1975 they were
found to exceed the cost estimates by 75%, and re-bidding in July 1975 failed
to obtain lower prices. The Government rejected the bids and decided, in
consultation with the Association in March 1976, to re-formulate a reduced
project to cover initially only the most urgent sections.
iv.       The Second Highlands Road Improvement Project provides for:  (i)
improving and paving three sections of the Highlands Highway between Goroka
and Garnigl totalling about 68 km; (ii) detailed engineering of the Highlands
Highway between Waterais and Togoba, totalling 317 km, with retroactive
financing; (iii) Rural Development Project Preparation Studies in the Central
Highlands; (iv) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of the Togoba-
Wapenamanda Road, and updating an earlier feasibility study of the Highlands
Highway, to prepare future projects; and (v) technical assistance to local
civil engineering contractors.



- ii -
v.        The total cost is estimated at US$27.5 million.  The foreign ex-
change component is US$19.25 million of which US$19.0 million will be
financed by the credit and the remaining cost of US$8.5 million will be
financed by the Government. The credit includes retroactive financing of
about US$1.4 million including US$800,000 for detailed engineering of the
Highlands Highway and US$600,000 for force account work, including supervision,
on drainage and earthworks on one of the road sections to be improved and
paved. The credit would be made to the Government of PNG and execution would
be the responsibility of the Department of Transport, Works and Supply (DTW).
vi.       About 70% of the construction works will be carried out through
five contracts, to be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank guidelines. The remainder will be carried out by
force , Works and Supply (DTW).
vi.       About 70% of the construction works will be carried out through
five contracts, to be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank guidelines. The remainder will be carried out by
force account. Because of the difficulty of estimating costs in PNG, and
experience on the First Highway project, it was agreed that bids would be
obtained for the most difficult road works, amounting to about 50% of the
total, prior to negotiation of the credit, and they have been. However, con-
tracts will not be awarded until after approval of the credit by the Board.
Supervision, technical assistance to local contractors, and assistance in
management of force account work, will be by consultants. Construction is
expected to take 4 years, and the whole project would be completed by
December 1980.
vii.      The improvements of the Highlands Highway included in the project
are estimated to yield a rate of return, based on transport cost savings
alone, of about 27%. However, additional benefits will result when the
Government takes appropriate complementary measures for development in the
Central Highlands which will be identified and prepared through the Rural
Development Studies.
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$19.0 million, rep-
resenting about 70% of the total project cost, on the normal terms.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Papua New Guinea has asked the Association to help
finance a Second Highlands Road Improvement Project consisting of: (a) con-
struction and improvement, including paving, of three sections totalling about
68 km of the Highlands Highway between Goroka and Garnigl, including supervi-
sion of the work and assistance in management of force account work; (b) ret-
roactive financing of detailed engineering by consultants of 317 km of the
Highlands Highway between Waterais and Togoba (including the 68 km in (a) above);
(c) Rural Development Project Preparation Studies, by consultants, in the Enga
and Chimbu Provinces of the Central Highlands area; (d) feasibility study of
the Togoba-Wapenamanda Road, about 63 km, to be followed by detailed engi-
neering, if found feasible; (e) updating of the feasibility study of the
Highlands Highway between Waterais and Togoba to prepare a further stage of
improvement of the highway; and (f) technical assistance to local contractors,
by consultants. The main object of the project is to assist in developing
the Central Highlands Region. In particular, it will: (i) provide, for the
first time, a reasonably reliable all-weather highway throughout the Highlands
region towards the principal port of Lae, and significantly reduce transport
costs; and (ii) prepare high priority rural development projects and road
improvement projects for future investment.
1.02      The request for Bank Group financing was first made to an Associa-
tion identification mission in April 1972 for a larger project for the con-
struction and improvement, including paving, of about 317 km of the Highlands
Highway between Waterais and Togoba. A feasibility study, financed by the
Government, was made in 1972-73 by the Australian consultants Vallentine,
Laurie and Davies (VLD), and detailed engineering was carried out by the same
consultants in 1973-74. Retroactive financing of the detailed engineering
was included in the request, as well as new Rural Development Studies and
feasibility studies and detailed engineering of further roads. Because of
uncertainties in the cost estimates, it was agreed that bids should be
obtained for the construction before negotiating a loan. Accordingly, the
Government obtained international bids, in accordance with Bank Group proce-
dures, in March 1975. A total of only eight bids were received for the six
road sections and the sum of the low bids was about US$47 million, or about
75% higher than estimated. After discussions with the Association, the
Government rejected all bids, and called for new bids on the basis of revised
bid documents, including regrouping the work into two large sections, in the
hope of obtaining lower prices. However, the three bids, received in July
1975, gave an even higher minimum sum of about US$51 million. In each case
the amounts excluded contingency items and supervision. The Government
informed the Association in September 1975 that it did not intend to proceed
with the project, but would consider whether to propose a smaller project
instead. In March 1976, the Government sent a delegation to the Association
and, after discussions, requested Association financing for the smaller
project, covering the most urgent sections of the Highlands Highway, described
in para 1.01.



1.03      The Bank Group's assistance in the transport sector has included
acting as executing agency for the UNDP-financed Transport Survey of 1968-69,
and financing the First Highway Project, and a Port Project. The UNDP Trans-
port Survey provided the framework for the subsequent reorganization of trans-
port administration and for the preparation of initial investment programs.
The First Highway Project was financed under Credit 204/Loan 693-PNG in 1970.
It provided US$9.0 million for construction and improvement of sections of
the Highlands Highway totalling 150 km between Kundiawa and Mendi, at the
western end of the highway. The work was satisfactorily completed at the
end of 1973, but with a cost overrun of about 90% due chiefly to bid prices
being 60% higher than estimated, but also because of greater than expected
quantities of unsuitable soil which had to be replaced. The overrun was
financed by the Government. The Port Project provided US$9.2 million under
Credit 326-PNG in 1972 for extending port facilities at Port Moresby, Lae
and Kieta, and for constructing new port facilities at Alotau. The project
is proceeding satisfactorily and is expected to be completed in early 1977.
1.04      The total cost of the Second Highlands Road Improvement Project is
estimated at US$27.5 million of which the foreign exchange component is
US$19.25 million. This estimate is based on unit prices of work in the bids
received in October 1976, for about half of the civil works. An amount of
US$19.0 million will be financed by the credit; the Government will provide
the remaining US$8.5 million.
1.05      This report is based on information provided by the Government,
on the feasibility studies and detailed engineering carried out by the
consultants VLD, and on the findings of an appraisal mission in August 1974
composed of Messrs. P.R. Morris (engineer) and S.Y. Park (economist), and
was revised in accordance with the amended project formulated in discussions
with the Government delegation in March 1976 and further information provided
by the Government and the consultants in June and July 1976 and during nego-
tiations in November-December 1976.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic, Demographic and Economic Background
2.01      Papua New Guinea (PNG) became independent from Australia in
September 1975. Physically, PNG comprises the eastern half of the island
of New Guinea and some 600 smaller islands. A number of the islands form
part of Papua but most are part of New Guinea, including the larger islands
of New Bri5ain, New Ireland and Bougainville. PNG has a land area of ab2ut
477,000 km (about the same size as Spain) spread over some 2,000,000 km
of the Western Pacific Ocean. The indigenous population numbers about 2.8
million and is growing at 2.8% p.a. The non-indigenous population (largely
from Australia) in 1975 numbered about 40,000 persons, which is a decrease
from 54,000 in 1971. With Independence, the rate of decrease in expatriate
population is gradually slowing down.



- 3 -
2.02      The country is at an early stage of development, with an economy
based on primary production. The non-monetized sector, which provides the
indigenous population with most of its necessities, accounts for about one-
sixth of the GNP and is growing at an estimated rate of less than 1% p.a. The
monetized sector has been growing at more than 10% p.a. in real terms over the
last 10 years. The economy is heavily dependent on external trade; exports
in 1975/76 were valued at about K 357 million. About one-half of the value
of exports was accounted for by copper concentrate exported from Bougain-
ville. The Government estimates that exports in 1976/77 will reach some
K 490 million with a similar proportion as the previous year to be accounted
for by copper concentrates. The decrease in world copper prices in recent
years has adversely affected the trade balance and since May 1975 the trade
balance has been in a deficit position. From April 1976 however the trade
balance showed some surplus. Other export commodities are coffee, cocoa
beans and copra.
2.03      The latest (1975) available estimate of per capita GNP of all per-
sons resident in Papua New Guinea, including the small and decreasing number
of expatriates, is K 360 p.a. The corresponding figure for the PNG nationals
alone is estimated at about K 250.
The Central Highlands
2.04      Historically, economic activity in PNG was based on centers such
as Port Moresby (Papua), Lae and Madang (New Guinea), and Rabaul (New
Britain), which were traditionally supplied by sea, but later also by air.
These centers were, however, no more than economic enclaves, and little
development took place in the interior of the country.
2.05      In the last few decades the economic potential of the interior,
notably of the Central Highlands in the west-central part of the mainland,
has been recognized. Economic activity there was initially supported almost
entirely by air transport. Gradually, however, a road was developed from the
port of Lae, and was completed about 1966. Today the road, called the High-
lands Highway, runs 600 km from Lae to Mendi via Mount Hagen, the administra-
tive center of the Western Highlands Province. It provides a land access,
albeit a somewhat difficult and unreliable one, to the Central Highlands and
to the estimated one million people living there.
2.06      The Central Highlands consists of five provinces; they are
Eastern Highlands, Chimbu, Western Highlands, Enga and Southern Highlands,
with provincial administrations located at Goroka, Kundiawa, Mount Hagen,
Wabag and Mendi. At present the cash economies of these provinces are
relatively undeveloped, but rapid development of cash crops, notably
coffee and tea, is taking place, and would be accompanied by development
of processing industries and of tourism. Of the five provinces, Southern
Highlands is the least developed and Chimbu is the most heavily populated.



- 4 -
2.07      With about 40% of the country's population living in the five High-
lands provinces, and with the favorable possibilities of sustained economic
growth, the Central Highlands appears poised to play a major role in the
economic development of the country.
B. Recent Development in the Sector
(a) General
2.08      The terrain of the 'mainland' of PNG is unfavorable for development
of land transportation inwards from the ports. Generally, the coastal plain
is narrow and is terminated abruptly by formidable mountain ranges; even
where the plain extends some distance inland, as in the southwestern part
of the mainland, it tends to be intersected by major rivers and to be low-
lying and swampy. The major trade movements to and from the Highlands are
unbalanced. For the mainland as a whole, the tonnage of imports is almost
twice that of exports. On the Highlands Highway the imbalance is even
greater; in 1975, for example, freight moving inland from Lae was about
200,000 tons, while the outward movement was only 44,000 tons, a ratio of 5
to 1.
(b) Highway Transport
2.09      Before World War II, road transport played a very minor role in
PNG. However, since the War, the road system has been expanded considerably,
but nevertheless, it is still comparatively limited considering the size of
the country. Lack of reliable data on the extent of the system year by year
since the War precludes a calculation of annual growth, but it is estimated
that the system totalled about 18,300 km (Table 1) in 1975, the last time
that the roads were inventoried, which represents a nine-fold increase during
the post-War period. The vehicle fleet, more than half of which consists
of motor cars, station wagons and motorcycles, has increased by about 12%
p.a. since 1963 and now numbers nearly 40,000 (Table 2).
(c) Ports and Shipping
2.10      PNG has about 50 ports of various sizes, 10 of which (Port Moresby,
Lae, Madang, Wewak, Samarai on the mainland, and Rabaul, Kavieng, Kieta, Kimbe
and Lorengau on other islands) handle overseas trade. Cargo handled at the
major ports totalled 1.5 million tons in 1974/75.
2.11      Overseas shipping services are provided by 16 companies.  Coastal
and inter-island services are provided by about 240 locally owned small ves-
sels greater than 10 m in length. These operate between main ports and
provide feeder services to outports.
2.12      The Harbours Board has recently completed a program of port
development at Port Moresby, Lae, Kieta and Alotau at a total cost of
US$11.4 million of which 82% was financed by IDA.



-5-
(d) Civil Aviation
2.13      Air transport is a major mode of passenger travel both in-
ternally and between PNG and other countries; passenger traffic has been in-
creauing steadily by about 10% p.a. between 1964 and 1974. Freight is also
movei by air, particularly to the more isolated areas, but the importance of
air freight has declined substantially in recent years (Table 3).
2.14      Airports and airstrips numbered 470 in December 1974, but only Port
Moresby is used for scheduled international flights. The extension of the
Port Moresby airport, making it capable of handling the largest commercial
jets, and the construction of a new international airport near Lae are being
financed by the Australian Government. PNG is adequately served by inter-
national flights. Internally, scheduled services are provided by Air Nuigini
(60% Government-owned), which has a low aircraft utilization rate due to the
restriction of flights to daylight hours. Four other companies operate
scheduled commuter services and a further 25 operators are licensed for
charter or aerial work operations.
C. Transport Administration and Planning
2.15      Prior to 1967, responsibility for transportation was shared among
several departments of the Government.  In that year a Coordinator of Trans-
port was appointed, and in 1968 a Directorate of Transport was set up and
given responsibility for policy and planning in all forms of land and sea
transport, air transport remaining largely within the jurisdiction of the
Australian Department of Civil Aviation.
2.16      The Department of Transport (DOT) was established in August 1970,
and in February 1976, as part of a policy of rationalization and simplifica-
tion, the Government combined DOT and the Department of Public Works into
the Department of Transport, Works and Supply (DTW) in a single Ministry.
The functions were renamed the Office of Transport (OT) and the Office of
Works, respectively. In August 1976 the office of Works absorbed the Plant
and Transport Authority and became the National Works Authority (NWA) within
the DTW (Chart). The relationship between the OT and NWA is the same as the
former relationship between the departments. Further rationalization of Gov-
ernment functions is expected to follow but the relationship between the OT
and the NWA and their respective responsibilities is expected to remain
similar. The main functions of the OT are:
(i) to develop policy for land, sea and air transpor-
tation throughout the country;
(ii) to undertake the necessary economic studies and
surveys related to all modes;



- 6 -
(iii)  to prepare, evaluate and revise as necessary the
capital and recurrent expenditure plans for all
modes to meet the requirements of consumers, trans-
port operators and the Government; and
(iv) to regulate and administer each of the modes.
2.17      As regards highways, the OT prepares plans in conjunction with the
NWA, the office responsible, inter alia, for most of the road construction
and major road maintenance in PNG (Chart). The OT defines highway needs
in broad terms; these needs are then designed and costed by the NWA as spe-
cific projects. Projects are then considered by the OT on economic grounds,
taking duly into consideration the availability of other modes. In brief,
the OT supplies the economic expertise for the development of highway pro-
jects and the NWA supplies the technical expertise.
D. Transport Coordination
2.18      The OT plans infrastructural development of air, sea and road trans-
port. The responsibility for local aviation planning was handed over to the
OT from the Australian Department of Transport in December 1973. The OT is
strengthening its Planning Division for preparing more effective and coordi-
nated development of infrastructure and services in the transport sector. The
problems which require the attention of the Government for improved intermodal
coordination are the role of air transport in the face of continuous develop-
ment of road transport, and the relative economic merits of coastal shipping,
vs overland or air transport, including a possible cross-island highway,
which, if built, would connect Port Moresby and Lae and which was under
consideration by the Government in the past. The OT is to undertake the
preparation of a National Transport Plan to develop a phasing schedule for
transport infrastructure investment in PNG and a policy statement for overall
transport development.
III. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The public road network totals about 18,300 km (Table 1).  The
roads are predominantly located in the areas containing the bulk of the
population, that is, in and near the main coastal towns, and in the Central
Highlands. Because of the extremely mountainous terrain, and difficult soil
and climatic conditions, the road system is not continuous and consists of
a number of regional networks.



- 7 -
3.02      The Government has two classifications of roads, one administra-
tive and one technical. The Administrative Classification for Rural Roads
(Table 1) consists of Highways, and Trunk Roads (both maintained by the
Central Government), and Feeder, Access, and Declared Minor Roads (mostly
maintained by the local authorities). The Technical Classifications for
Rural Roads (Table 6) are Primary, Rural Class 1, Rural Class 2, Rural
Class 3, Access Class 1, and Access Class 2. With the setting up of Pro-
vincial Governments, now in progress, responsibilities for some roads will
be changed. The highways will remain the responsibility of the Central
Government and other roads will become the responsibility of the Provinces.
B. Traffic
3.03      Because of the absence of a continuous road system, and the con-
centration of much of the population in centers around the coast, road
traffic volumes are generally low, both for passengers and freight. Most
traffic is short distance; long-distance traffic between main centers is
chiefly by air for passengers and by sea for freight. An important excep-
tion is the Highlands Highway which runs for a distance of about 600 km from
the main port of Lae to Mendi, through the Central Highlands which contains
about 40% of the total population of PNG. The highway already carries a
substantial average traffic volume of about 450 aadt, mainly trucks,
largely on long-distance haulage to and from the coast. Furthermore, in
recent years there has been a shift from trucks of 5 to 7 tons capacity to
12 ton trucks with 10 ton trailers, particularly for the haul from Lae to
-Goroka.
3.04      There is presently no restrictive licensing of entry and operations
in the road freight industry. As a result, a competitive and efficient in-
dustry has evolved, made up of a great number of firms ranging in size from
one with a fleet of about 50 vehicles down to many owner-operators with only
1 or 2 vehicles each. However, the Government has recently submitted for
Parliamentary consideration proposed legislation for licensing regulation of
heavy vehicles. Some provisions in the proposed legislation caused the Asso-
ciation concern in that they may stifle competition in the trucking industry.
During negotiations, the Government representatives assured the Association
that the intention of the Government is not to use the law to inhibit com-
petition but rather to promote the continued sound development of an efficient
and competitive transport industry within certain administrative regulations.
The smaller trucking firms are mainly owned and operated by nationals, some
of which have combined into cooperatives. Although the larger firms were
until recently mainly owned and managed by expatriates, they are now accepting
increasing participation by nationals in ownership and operation; this is in
line with the Government policy of increasing Papua New Guineans' involvement
in business. The Government has been assisting local entrepreneurs in acquir-
ing ownership of larger haulage firms through financial and management support.
The present legal limit for vehicle weight is 9.6 tons for a single axle,
which is reasonable. During negotiations, the Government undertook to ex-
change views with the Association regarding economic justification of any



- 8 -
material alterations which may be proposed to: (i) regulations governing
weights and dimensions, or operation, of motor vehicles; or (ii) taxation of
larger vehicles.
3.05      The Land Transport Division of the OT is being strengthened, in-
cluding the establishment of a full-time traffic counting unit. Confir-
mation was obtained, during negotiations, of the Government's intention to
continue to improve the collection and analysis of traffic data, including
the extension of counting to the local authority roads.
3.06      Since the First Highway Project appraisal in 1970, the OT has re-
leased 25 information bulletins on traffic and freight surveys which have
been undertaken. One of these indicates that freight rates on the Highlands
Highway (Lae-Goroka, 275 km) in current prices have fallen over the last ten
years from more than 144/ton-km to the present rate of about 7.5w to 8J/ton-
km. The reduction has been brought about by the improvement of the highway
and increasing competition and efficiency in the road transport industry. The
reduction is the more remarkable since many prices and costs, including those
on other highways in PNG, have increased during the period.
C. Administration
3.07      As noted in paragraphs 2.16-2.18, under the present Government
organization, the OT is responsible for all highway planning, and the NWA
is responsible for design and execution of works, both capital and recurrent.
However, the NWA delegates to the Local Government Councils (under the Depart-
ment of the Prime Minister and Development Administration) the maintenance of
most of the roads other than highway and trunk (paras 3.10 and 3.14); it also
delegates to the Local Government Councils some of the minor improvement works
on less important rural roads.
3.08      The OT under the Minister for Transport and Works (Chart) is re-
sponsible for transport policy and planning, as well as for administration
and regulation of transport. These duties involve the assessment of transport
demand, including undertaking traffic surveys, and preparing statistics and
forecasts. The OT is responsible also for economic studies and the prepara-
tion of capital and recurrent programs. The OT was established in August
1970 (initially as the Department of Transport) and has made significant pro-
gress in its ability to discharge its responsibilities. Like the NWA (para
3.09) it is expected to continue to depend on expatriates for its senior staff
for some years.
3.09      The NWA in the DTW (Chart) will be responsible for execution of
the project, as its predecessor, the Department of Public Works, was for the
First Highway Project. It is a general purpose works organization which deals
with water supplies, buildings and airports in addition to roads. The NWA
handles directly all major works and it is mainly dependent on expatriate
staff for its engineers. It has 118 engineer posts of which 92 are filled.



- 9 -
The Government is continuing to conduct an active recruiting campaign over-
seas, including the Philippines, UK, and New Zealand, as well as Australia
from where most of the staff have been obtained in the past. There are also
about 350 posts for technicians and supervisors, of which about 150, mainly
the senior posts, are occupied by expatriates.  Here also, after a period of
an ab)normally high rate of departures, the situation has stabilized, with
overseas personnel filling key positions for which suitably qualified local
personnel are not yet available. The NWA is pursuing a comprehensive and
energetic training program to accelerate the staffing of the Office with qua-
lified nationals as much as possible (paras 3.21-3.23). However, it will
take many years to train local staff to take over all the senior posts. In
the meantime it is clear that reliance must be placed on expatriate staff for
most of the engineers and some of the senior technical posts. During nego-
tiations, confirmation was obtained that the Government will continue to
strengthen the NWA and the OT, including recruitment and training of staff.
3.10      There are a number of  Local Government Councils (including Port
Moresby) which carry out works on a small scale, chiefly with hand labor, and
with the technical assistance of the NWA Regional Works Engineers and Provin-
cial Works Managers (para 3.07). The OW is now increasing the number of its
engineers in the field who will be working with the Councils and in future
with the new Provincial Governments. Also, Government, through the DTW, is
already running a training program for Local Government Council works staff
(para 3.22).
3.11      In July 1974, the Government set up a Plant and Transport Authority
which took over responsibility for the procurement, maintenance and operation
of all Government transport and mobile equipment. This included the trans-
port and equipment of the Office of Works, as well as its main workshops.
However, in February 1976, the Plant and Transport Authority became part of
the DTW under the Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation and in August 1976
the Plant and Transport Authority became the Plant and Transport Division
within the NWA. It is too early to judge the effects of these changes.
D. Planning
3.12      Transport planning is the responsibility of the DTW under the
Minister of Transport and is carried out by the OT through its Planning
Division. Responsibility for coordinating all economic and social planning,
including transport, rests with the National Planning Office which was set
up in November 1973, and reports to the Cabinet Committee on Planning. The
National Planning Office is responsible for preparing, in collaboration with
other ministries, national development programs, and assisting in the pre-
paration of annual budgets. Pending the receipt of a long-range commitment
on aid from Australia, economic planning was on an annual basis, with only
generalized broad long-term objectives. The Australian guarantee, in March
1976, of over K 1,000 million for the period 1976-1981 will permit long-range
development plans to be prepared in consultation with the new Provincial
Governments, when they have been established.



- 10 -
3.13      In the meantime, the OT has been planning projects which are a
continuation of previous development programs, and preparing other projects
of obvious high priority. In general these are for: (a) connecting, with
all-weather roads, the major population, production and resource areas to
the ports and, where necessary, to each other (the most important such road
is the Highlands Highway (Lae-Mendi)); and (b) gradually improving, in stages,
access roads to smaller population centers and rural areas, largely through
the "Rural Improvement Program". These projects, particularly those in (b),
are based on proposals received by the OT from the NWA and other Government
departments, and from Local Government Councils, and other public and private
agencies. In addition, the OT Planning Division itself carries out recon-
naissance of existing transport facilities and assesses improvements required
to meet demand. Expenditures on roads for the period 1968-76, and estimated
expenditures for the year 1976/77 are given in Table 4.
E. Financing
3.14      Financing for construction and improvement of public roads, and
for maintenance of highways and trunk roads is provided through the Govern-
ment's annual budget. In addition, the Local Government Councils (and in
the case of Bougainville the Provincial Government, which has already been
set up there) provide funds for maintaining minor (feeder and access) roads
(para 3.07); the Councils derive about one-third of their finances from
Central Government's grants and the remainder from local taxes.  The new
constitution includes provision for eventually setting up of Provincial
Governments in all areas and they will have wider responsibilities and
powers.
3.15      The Government's annual expenditures on roads (Table 4) increased
by approximately 240% in financial terms between 1968/69 and 1976/77. Expend-
iture is expected to remain around K 40 million per year in the immediate
future. Revenues (Table 5) from use and ownership of vehicles (road user
charges) amount to only about a fifth of expenditures, in spite of the Govern-
ment having raised the duty on motor fuel in late 1969 and again in late 1975,
in accordance with recommendations of the consultants who carried out the
UNDP-financed transport survey in 1968/69. Notwithstanding the setting up of
Provincial Governments, it is expected that the Central Government will con-
tinue to provide the great bulk of the financing for highways from the general
budget, for which it receives assistance from Australia. Also in line with
the UNDP consultants' recommendations, the OT has begun a study with a view
to formulating a rational transport user charge system. The study is being
carried out by an economist provided through the Commonwealth Fund for Tech-
nical Cooperation. The progress of the study was reviewed during negotiations
and it was agreed that further exchanges of views would take place in the
course of completing the study.



- 11 -
F. Engineering
3.16      The NWA is responsible for engineering of road works, and has for-
mulated design standards (Table 6) which give a reasonable range for the
various types of roads and terrain conditions. Most major design work is
carried out for the NWA by consultants, mainly local subsidiaries of
Australian firms. The NWA, including its field staff, undertakes the designs
for minor construction and improvement works to the limit of its capacity.
The quality of the engineering is satisfactory, for the nature of the work
and the physical difficulties in PNG.
G. Construction
3.17      Virtually all major construction works are carried out by contract.
Improvement of existing roads is carried out partly by contract and partly by
force account. On the highways and trunk roads, force account improvement
work is normally undertaken using equipment supplied partly from the Govern-
ment's own resources and partly obtained from contractors and equipment-hire
firms. Improvement and maintenance of minor roads (feeder and access) is
carried out to low standards, largely by hand labor, but also using equip-
ment when necessary, usually supplied through the NWA which also provides
technical assistance to the Local Government Councils.
3.18      Civil engineering contracts in PNG are not adequate in scale and
frequency to support a domestic contracting industry with a number of large
contractors capable of undertaking major construction works. However, a
local contracting industry has evolved, largely run by expatriates, but with
varying degrees of participation, including ownership, by PNG nationals. There
are nine such firms capable of undertaking medium construction contracts (up
to about K 2 million) and smaller ones (up to about K 500,000). In addition,
there are four wholly-owned subsidiaries of foreign firms presently operating
in PNG which could undertake large contracts. Through international adver-
tising, three other large international firms prequalified to bid on the
project. There are also many small local firms which can undertake minor
works, often on a sub-contracted basis, or hire equipment to the Government.
The NWA arranges contracts in size, and in variety of work, to suit the struc-
ture of the contracting industry; contracts range from large-scale, including
heavy earth works, sufficient to attract major international contractors, to
medium- and small-size contracts within the capabilities of the local firms.
This practice is being followed in the composition of the five contracts
prepared for the project works (para 4.19).
3.19      Supervision of major construction works is usually carried out by
consultants for the NWA. The NWA itself supervises smaller contracts and
force account work. The quality of works is normally satisfactory.



- 12 -
H. Maintenance
3.20      Maintenance of the national road system is carried out by the NWA,
through its Regional Works Engineers and Provincial Works Managers. The
standard of maintenance is good considering the early stage of development
of the road system and the adverse physical and climatic conditions. Many
landslides and areas of erosion occur in the mountainous terrain due to heavy
rainfall and, in many places, unstable soils, but repair crews and equipment
are promptly directed to the works, and repairs are carried out as quickly as
possible. The Government has provided adequate funds for maintenance purposes.
However, it is impracticable to draw an entirely clear distinction between
maintenance and minor improvements; thus, over a period of time, some improve-
ment of the road system has gradually occurred through maintenance operations,
in addition to the effect of the specific improvement works which are sepa-
rately funded, particularly through the Rural Improvement Program. This im-
provement work is carried out by the NWA, including both trunk and provincial
(feeder and access) roads. Maintenance of provincial roads is formally
carried out by the Local Government Councils, but with assistance from the
NWA. Such roads are, in some cases, passable only with difficulty even in
dry weather and in the rainy season normally only with 4-wheel drive vehicles.
Traffic volumes are small. During negotiations confirmation was obtained
that the Government will continue to carry out satisfactory maintenance of
the national road system.
I. Training
3.21      The NWA has a comprehensive and vigorous training program.  Good
progress has been made in localizing the staff of the NWA but, as noted in
para 3.08, it will be many years before all the engineer and senior technical
posts can be occupied by qualified PNG nationals. The NWA has 18 PNG engineers
out of a total establishment of 118. The University of Technology in Lae
started courses (5 year) in civil engineering in 1967. A total of 27 had
successfully completed courses to the end of 1975, a further 8 graduated
in 1976, and thereafter the numbers will increase to about 30 per year in
1980. In addition, the University started to produce about 8 mechanical
engineering graduates per year from 1973, and about 11 electrical engineering
graduates per year from 1974. These numbers are expected to increase slowly
to about 15 per year and 20 per year, respectively, from 1980. Many of the
students are sponsored by the Public Service Commission and by private firms.
The Government expects to recruit perhaps half of the graduates, but even
so, it will take many years to adequately staff the public service with
nationals. The limiting factor at present is the number of suitably qualified
students produced by the high schools. A practical training scheme for
engineering graduates (preferably after they have had about two years
experience on works in PNG) is provided in Australia by the Commonwealth
Government.
3.22      Training for higher grade technical staff is provided by Lae Tech-
nical College, which runs 3-year courses leading to certificates in civil,



- 13 -
mechanical and electrical engineering. In addition, part-time (12 weeks per
year) courses are run for students already in Government and private employ-
ment. The Iduabada Technical School in Port Moresby trains tradesmen for the
engineering and building industries.
3.23      For training of staff already in the service, the NWA operates three
training schools. The largest one is for technical training and its staff and
facilities have been built up to train about 30 supervisors and operators per
year. The aim is to train all such staff presently in service within a period
of seven years, though courses will continue thereafter to replace losses;
also more advanced courses may be introduced for selected staff. The NWA also
runs a school for training about 70 junior managers per year in administration.
Since 1974 the NWA has also operated a training school for local council staff
in road construction and maintenance. It is training about 60 supervisors and
operators per year.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The principal object of the project is to assist in the development
of the Central Highlands Region.  It will do this firstly by providing, for
the first time, a reasonably reliable all-weather highway through the region
towards the main port of Lae. This will be achieved by reconstructing and
paving three priority sections of the highway which are presently of low
standard, steep, and subject to serious interruption of traffic caused by soil
slips and sometimes large-scale land slides. The works, which will complete
the improvement and paving of all sections of the highway having gradients of
10% or more, will allow large trucks and trailers to operate from Lae to Mount
Hagen, instead of only to Goroka, thereby further reducing transport costs.
Secondly, through the Rural Development Project Preparation Studies and the
feasibility study and detailed engineering of the Togoba-Wapenamanda road, it
will prepare high priority development projects for future investment.
4.02      The project consists of:
(a) construction and improvement, including bituminous paving,
of three sections totalling about 68 km of the Highlands
Highway between Goroka and Garnigl, including supervision
of the work by consultants;
(b) detailed engineering, by consultants, for about 317 km of
the Highlands Highway between Waterais and Togoba, including
the 68 km in (a) above;
(c) Rural Development Project Preparation Studies in the Enga
and Chimbu Provinces;



- 14 -
(d) feasibility study for construction and improvement of the
Togoba-Wapenamanda road, about 63 km, to be followed by
detailed engineering if found to be justified, and updating
of the feasibility study of the Highlands Highway between
Waterais and Togoba to prepare a further stage of improve-
ment of the highway; and
(e) provision of technical assistance and training for local
contractors, by consultants.
(a) Construction and Improvement
4.03      The Highlands Highway, and the work to be carried out under the
project, are described in detail in Annex 1. Briefly, the work covers three
sections of the road, all including paving: (i) Asaro-Watabung (18 km)
where the road will be improved on the present alignment; (ii) Chuave-
Kundiawa (27 km) where the road will be constructed on a new alignment for
20 km (shortening the route by 4 km), and improved on the present alignment
for 7 km; and (iii) Kundiawa-Garnigl (23 km), which was improved under the
First Highway Project and its alignment will be retained, but several slips
have occurred and these will be repaired, including installation of deep sub-
soil drains. The three sections will all have two-lane bituminous paving
5.5 m wide throughout with 1 m wide shoulders. The design standards are
generally "Rural Class 1 - Mountainous" (Table 6), although in a few places
the gradient exceeds the standard limit of 12%, and are reasonable.
4.04      All three sections of the Highlands Highway included in the project
traverse mountainous terrain with steep side slopes which in many places con-
sist of unstable colluvial soil and shales. Section (i) Asaro-Watabung has
already been widened and the side slopes have largely become stabilized, but
further improvements to the drainage are required and paving is needed, espe-
cially as the road through the entire section has gradients of 10% to 15%.
Section (ii) between Chuave and Kundiawa is narrow, poorly aligned and also
has steep gradients of up to 15%. It is subject to frequent slides, parti-
cularly during the rainy season, which block traffic for hours and sometimes
days, in spite of prompt efforts by the Government's maintenance forces.
Section (iii) Kundiawa-Garnigl was improved under the First Project and its
alignment is as good as practicable for the terrain. However, the road has
gradients of up to 12% and this increases the need for paving. Also per-
manent repairs will be carried out to some slips which have occurred and this
will include installation of deep subsoil drains.
4.05      The Government has a seven-year program to complete the improvement
and paving of the Highlands Highway from Lae to Togoba (total length 475 km
of which only 45 km is presently paved). The remaining section of the High-
lands Highway, between Togoba and Mendi, is not included in the program since
its improvement was completed in 1973, partly under the First Highway Project,
with a gravel surface, and is likely to be adequate for traffic for some
years. The construction and paving of three sections (68 km) in the project
constitutes the first and most urgent phase of the seven-year program. How-
ever, traffic on the remainder of the road has grown to a level where paving



- 15 -
would be justified. On the 156 km section between Lae and Kassam, the high-
way is already paved for the first 30 km, from Lae to Munum. The Government
expected to improve and pave the remaining 126 km from Munum to Kassam with
ADB financing. A loan was made by the ADB in 1973 to finance two roads, in-
cluding the 120 km from Munum to Waterais; engineering was completed in 1974
but in the meantime the estimated cost had escalated, and the Government de-
cided to defer starting its construction. However the Government expects to
obtain future financing from ADB for the Munum-Waterais-Kassam section of the
Highlands Highway. The final phase of the program will consist of widening
and paving the sections Kassam-Kainantu-Goroka and Minj-Kudjip; minor improve-
ment and paving the sections Goroka-Asaro and Watabung-Chuave; and paving the
sections (which were improved under the First Project) Garnigl-Minj and Kudjip-
Mount Hagen-Togoba.
(b) Engineering of the Works
4.06      A feasibility study of the improvement and paving of the Waterais-
Togoba Highway (about 317 km) was completed by the Australian consultants
Vallentine, Laurie and Davies (VLD) in 1973, financed by the Government.
The same firm carried out detailed engineering, which was substantially com-
pleted in December 1974, also financed by the Government, but with the under-
standing that the foreign exchange cost, which was expected to amount to about
US$800,000, would be considered for retroactive financing by the Bank Group;
this sum has therefore been included in the credit. For the Kundiawa-Garnigl
section, however, the Government recently decided to have VLD carry out
further field investigations during the present rainy season before finalizing
the designs for the repair of the slips (para 4.03).
(c) Supervision and Management of the Works, including Technical
Assistance to Contractors.
4.07      The Government intends to engage: (i) the same consultants, VLD,
to carry out supervision of all the construction and improvement works, to
be carried out both by contract and by force account; (ii) another firm of
Australian consultants, Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, to assist in
management of those works to be carried out by force account, including train-
ing of NWA local staff (paras. 4.20 to 4.23); and (iii) other consultants to
provide technical assistance to local contractors (paras. 3.18 and 4.19).
(d) Rural Development Project Preparation Studies
4.08      The Enga and Chimbu Province studies are expected to take about
fifteen months and will identify and prepare high priority rural development
projects for these districts and formulate an implementation schedule. The
studies will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and a time-
table to be agreed with the Association, by consultants to be selected and
appointed in consultation with the Association. The Government undertook to
discuss the study findings with the Association with a view to agreeing on
priority development projects for these two provinces, and a schedule for
their implementation.



- 16 -
(e) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of Further Roads
4.09      The project includes studies, by consultants, for preparation of
future road projects: (i) feasibility study of Togoba-Wapenamanda Road,
about 63 km, to be followed, if found to be justified, by completion of de-
tailed engineering which had been previously partially carried out; and
(ii) updating of the feasibility study of the Highlands Highway between
Waterais and Togoba, together with minor revisions of the detailed engineer-
ing if found necessary, to prepare a further stage of improvement of the
Highlands Highway. The Togoba-Wapenamanda Road serves the Enga Province.
It passes through hilly and mountainous terrain and is poorly aligned in
some sections, narrow, inadequately drained, and has a rough gravel and earth
surface which erodes during rainy periods. Present traffic is about 180 aadt.
(f) Technical Assistance to Local Civil Engineering Contractors
4.10      Technical assistance will be made available to local civil engineer-
ing contractors to help develop a wider and more competitive local construc-
tion industry. It will be aimed largely at the existing small firms which
mainly supply equipment on an hourly rental basis. Training will be given by
consultants in contract procedures, job management, estimating and cost and
financial accounting.
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.11      The cost of the project, including contingency allowances, is
estimated at about US$27.5 million. The foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at about US$19.25 million or about 70%. Estimated costs are shown in
Table 7, and are summarized on the next page. The estimated average costs per
km, excluding contingency allowances (including contingency allowances shown
in parentheses) are: (a) for construction and improvement, including bitumi-
nous paving, US$251,000 (US$347,000); (b) for supervision by consultants
US$19,000 (US$25,600); and (c) for feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
ing by consultants for future highway sub-projects, US$3,300 (US$4,000). The
cost per km of construction appears relatively high, but reflects the difficult
terrain, soil and climatic conditions. The cost per km of supervision appears
correspondingly high, but represents about 7.7% of construction cost and is
reasonable. A total of about 240 man-months is estimated for supervision,
with a cost per man-month of about US$5,400.



- 17 -
K (million)            US$ (million)        Foreign
Project Item            Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Component
A.  Construction,       4.273   9.970  14.243  5.128   11.964  17.092   70
Irprovement and
Paving of Asaro-
Watabung, Chuave-
Kundiawa and
Kundiawa-Garnigl
sections of High-
lands Highway
B. Engineering and Supervision
(i) Detailed
Engineering
of Waterais-
Togoba
(retroactive)   0.180  0.720   0.900  0.216    0.864   1.080   80
(ii) Supervison
of A             0.328  0.767   1.095  0.394    0.919   1.313   70
C.  Rural Development
Studies              0.041  0.167   0.208  0.050    0.200   0.250   80
D.  Feasibility Studies
& Engineering        0.041  0.167   0.208  0.050    0.200   0.250   80
E.  Technical Assist-
ance to local
contractors          0.025  0.100   0.125  0.030    0.120   0.150   80
Subtotal A-E         4.888 11.891  16.779  5.868   14.267  20.135
F.  Contingency Allowances:
(a) Physical /a      0.471  1.117   1.588  0.565    1.340   1.905
(b) Price /b         1.287  3.042   4.329  1.545    3.650   5.195
Subtotal F           1.758  4.159   5.917  2.110    4.990   7.100
Total Cost
of Works           6.646 16.050  22.696  7.978   19.257  27.235   71
G.  Right of Way         0.250    -       0.250  0.300       -     0.300
Total Cost of Project   6.896 16.050  22.946  8.278   19.257  27.535   70
/a  10% on all items except B(i).
/b  Price increases on all items except B (i) and G (on "base" prices at end
of September 1976) at estimated rate of 12% per year.



- 18 -
4.12      Cost estimates for the construction, improvement and paving of the
three sections of the Highlands Highway were prepared by VLD on the basis of
detailed bills of quantities of work compiled after substantially completing
detailed engineering. However, it was recognized that cost estimating for
major works is difficult in PNG, particularly at the present time, because:
(a) bidding on large-scale projects is carried out infrequently; (b) there is
high risk involved in undertaking works in mountainous and unstable terrain;
(c) only a small number of firms capable of carrying out substantial highway
works are continuously operating in the country; (d) large increases in costs
have taken place recently, both worldwide and locally and it is difficult to
forecast future trends; and (e) political change has taken place recently with
the country's Independence in September 1975. Also, bids (which were rejected)
for the Kassam-Togoba road in 1975 were about 75% higher than the estimates
(para 1.02). It was agreed, therefore, that bids should be obtained, before
negotiating the credit, for about 50% of the works, including the most diffi-
cult section Chuave-Kundiawa and for the section Asaro-Watabung. Accordingly,
after international advertisement and prequalification of contractors, the
Government received bids on October 19, 1976 for the earthworks, drainage and
subbase for Chuave-Kundiawa (for 18.5 km, that is excluding the 8.5 km to be
constructed by force account, ref. para 4.20) and for drainage and paving of
the section Asaro-Watabung. The lowest evaluated bidder for all of the (four
lots is Barclay Bros. (N.G.) Pty. Ltd., the Papua New Guinea subsidiary of an
Australian firm. Contracts will not be awarded, however, until after Board
presentation, and the Credit Agreement has been signed. Cost estimates were
revised, during negotiations, by the Government and VLD to take account of the
bid prices, which are about 10% lower than those received in 1975 and are
reasonable.
4.13      The cost estimates for detailed engineering of the construction and
improvement works included in the present project (para 4.06) are based on
the actual payments which have already been made by the Government, and for
which retroactive financing of the foreign exchange has been requested.
The estimates for the Rural Development Project Preparation Studies (para
4.08) are based on a forecast of about 30 man-months required to carry out
the work, a rate of about US$8,300 per man-month (excluding contingency
allowances), and on the cost of similar studies carried out on other Bank
projects.
4.14      The cost estimates of feasibility studies and detailed engineering
for further road projects (para 4.09) are based on the cost of similar work
previously carried out, adjusted to present day prices; a total of 40 man-
months has been estimated, and a rate of about US$6,200 per man-month (ex-
cluding contingency allowances). The scope of all the studies were reviewed
and agreed during negotiations.
4.15      Contingency allowances, which are considered reasonable, have
been allowed at 10% for physical quantities of work to be carried out, and
for price escalation (at an annual rate of 12% for domestic and foreign
costs). During credit negotiations, the cost estimates were reviewed and
agreed with the Government.



- 19 -
4.16      The consultants VLD estimate that the foreign exchange component
for the highway construction and improvement works is about 72% if carried
out by foreign contractors, and about 65% if carried out by local contractors
or force account. It is expected that nearly 70% of the work will be carried
out by foreign contractors, or their local subsidiary companies, and the
remainder by local contractors and by force account (paras 4.19 and 4.20).
The weighted average is therefore expected to be about 70% foreign exchange
component. The foreign exchange component of the consulting services is
estimated at 70% for supervision and 80% for other services, based on expe-
rience in recent contracts with consulting firms.
C. Financing
4.17      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$27.5 million.
The foreign exchange cost is estimated to be about US$19.25 million (Table 7)
and US$19.0 million is to be financed by the credit. The remaining cost of
about US$8.5 million will be financed by the Governfient. The Government has
asked that the Association finance retroactively US$800,000 of foreign cost
for detailed engineering (para 4.06), and this has been included in the cre-
dit. 1/ The Government has also requested that the Association finance re-
troactively about US$600,000 of foreign cost of the work on an 8.5 km length
(km 18.5-27.0) of the section Chuave-Kundiawa (to be carried out by force
account) which was started in July 1976 (para 4.21). The Government provided
promptly the funds needed for expenditures under the First Highway Project,
and it was confirmed during negotiations that it will make timely provision
for its share of financing for this project.
D. Implementation
4.18      The DTW will be responsible for the execution of the project.
However, other departments will be involved in varying degrees. These will
include, in connection with the Rural Development Project Preparation Studies,
the Department of Provincial Affairs (which will coordinate them), and the
Department of Primary Industry (which includes Agriculture). Consultants
will assist the Government in supervising construction and managing the
force account work, and in carrying out the Rural Development Project Pre-
paration Studies and the feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
further roads.
4.19      The construction and improvement works will be carried out mainly
through contracts to be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines and the remainder by force account
by the NWA of the DTW. The aim is to carry out about 70% of the work through
five contracts, arranged in two groups for bidding. This permits relatively
1/ The Bank Group indicated, in a cable dated May 24, 1973, that such
retroactive financing would be considered.



- 20 -
small local firms to participate, but at the same time the grouping of con-
tracts gives adequately sized packages to attract international contractors.
The Government has obtained bids for the first group and intends to award the
contracts shortly after approval and signature of the Credit (para 4.12).
PNG does not have preferential tariffs on imports.
4.20      The work to be carried out by force account amounts to about 30% of
the total and consists of: (i) earthworks, drainage and subbase construction
on a length of 8.5 km at the Kundiawa end of the Chuave-Kundiawa section; and
(ii) the permanent repair of slips on the section Kundiawa-Garnigl, including
installation of deep subsoil drainage and reinstatement and compaction of the
earthworks. A major reason for such force account work and for starting it in
advance of the bidding is that in view of the Government's disappointment with
previous bidding on this road in 1975 (paras 1.02 and 4.12), it wishes to have
an alternative construction agency already established and working on the site.
The aim was to demonstrate to bidders that their fears about difficulties of
working in the area had been exaggerated and to create, indirectly, a climate
of greater competition. The Government's other reasons for force account con-
struction are that the repairs to the slips in (ii) above would be difficult
to specify precisely in advance, and are thus not well suited to contract
procedures; and also for training staff of the NWA. If future bids received
on any part of the construction works are not considered satisfactory, the
Government may wish, in agreement with the Association, to carry out additional
works by force account. During credit negotiations agreement was reached with
the Government that: (a) resources, including labor and equipment, will not be
diverted from road maintenance works in order to carry out force account con-
struction works; and (b) no additional force account construction of works in
the project will be undertaken, except as the Association shall otherwise agree.
4.21      The force account work will be carried out by labor directly em-
ployed by the NWA with assistance in management provided by a team supplied
by consultants. The equipment will be partly supplied by the Plant and Trans-
port Division of the NWA, and partly by local plant hire firms. It is anti-
cipated that force account works to a value of about US$800,000 might be car-
ried, out by the end of January 1977, which, together with the cost of consult-
ants' services for management and supervision, will have a foreign exchange
component of about US$600,000 (para 4.17).
4.22      The Government is already acquiring the land for the 40 m wide
right-of-way and expects to complete acquisition before contracts are awarded
for construction. This was confirmed during negotiations, and agreement was
reached on a project implementation schedule (Table 8) and on procedure for
reporting progress.
4.23      In executing the construction, contractors are free to choose their
own methods, including the most economical use of mechanical equipment and
labor, subject to their work complying with the specifications. It would be
impracticable to stipulate that contractors should carry out the work chiefly
or largely by hand labor because it would be technically very difficult to
achieve satisfactory quality and cost would be greatly increased. Similar
considerations apply also to the works to be carried out by force account.
Nevertheless, it is expected that the works will give direct employment to
an average of about 300 workers over a total period of about 48 months.



- 21 -
4.24      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse ecolo-
gical effects. Care has been taken in the design to minimize the risk of
slips or erosion by avoiding unstable soil areas as far as practicable, and
taking measures to deal with them where encountered, and also by providing
adequate drainage systems. Paving the road will of course eliminate the
present nuisances caused by dust and mud.
E. Disbursements
4.25      Disbursements from the credit will be on the basis of:  (i) 70% of
the total cost of construction and improvement works; and (ii) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of the consultants' services. In the case of force
account works, the cost will be determined on the basis of an agreed esti-
mate, consisting of bills of quantities and unit rates; payments will be made
according to the quantities of work performed and with unit rates adjusted
periodically for price fluctuations on the basis of formulae similar to
those included in the agreements for the works carried out by contractors.
On that basis, and on the schedule for execution of the project (para 4.22),
a Schedule of Estimated Disbursements has been prepared (Table 9); this was
reviewed with the Government during negotiations. The quantities of work
performed, both by contractors and by force account, will be measured monthly
and certified by the supervisory consultants. Payments will be subject to
internal audit by the DTW and to audit by the Government Auditor-General's
Office. Arrangements for payment and auditing were confirmed during
negotiations. In the event that not all the contingency allowances are found
to be needed, any surplus which may remain in the credit account should be
used to extend the bituminous paving of the Highlands Highway in the Goroka-
Garnigl area, as has been informally suggested by the Government; such paving
would restore a small part of those works which were originally included in
the appraisal, and are economically justified, but which were eliminated to
reduce the cost of the project because of the Government's budgetary con-
straints (para 1.02).
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Central Highlands Region, consisting of five provinces
(Eastern Highlands, Chimbu, Western Highlands, Enga and Southern Highlands),
contains about 60% of the population of the main island of PNG. It has a
mild climate (ecologically having close affinities to the temperate rain
forests of Australia), relatively fertile soils which are suitable for grow-
ing coffee, tea, tobacco, other upland crops and vegetables, fruits, etc.,
and extensive grasslands suited for livestock raising. The fertility of the
soils of the Highlands is in contrast to many of the low land soils in PNG
which are shallow, heavily leached and relatively infertile. Having been



- 22 -
opened up to the outside world only a generation or so ago, the region is one
of the least developed parts of the country, and its resource potential is
barely tapped. The region therefore is one of the poorest parts of the
country, accounting for about 45% of the country's subsistence economy.
5.02      The region's development is hampered by, among other factors,
the difficult transportation conditions. Before the Second World War, the
region's only connection with the coastal regions was air transport. (Even
today, some considerable quantity of fresh vegetables is flown out to the
coastal regions, particularly to Port Moresby which is not connected to the
Highlands by a road.) Since the War, the road connection between the port
of Lae on the northeastern coast and the Highlands has been built, first
as a track, and then improved in stages; these included construction and
improvement, including gravel surfacing, of three sections totalling about
150 km under the First Highway Project. Particular difficulties in trans-
portation have been encountered at three sections of the road to be improved
under the project, where topographical and soil conditions are very diffi-
cult. Because of their weight and lengths, large-size trucks encounter
difficulty in operating on these sections, and consequently cargoes to and
from the port of Lae have to be transshipped. The proposed project will
improve the conditions of three sections of the Highlands Highway to permit
the operation of semi-trailers on the entire itinerary of the highway between
the port of Lae and Mount Hagen.
B. Development Potential and Traffic
5.03      The majority of the people in the Central Highlands Region is
engaged in subsistence agriculture. Virtually the only commercial production
at present is coffee and tea. While from the natural resource point of view
the region has potential to expand productive activities, such as tobacco,
vegetables, cattle, etc., social, administrative and land tenure problems
make it difficult to initiate a rapid development process. Along with the
improvement of the difficult sections of the highways, the Government would
have to formulate imaginative development strategies to induce and encourage
the people of the region to improve their economic conditions. Aside from
agriculture, the region has potential for tourism development.
5.04      While there have been noteworthy developments in coffee and tea
exports in recent years, the agricultural sector accounts for only about
35% of the region's income, the largest part currently being derived from
the Government's budget expenditure. For example, in 1973 the public ex-
penditure accounted for 55% of the regional income (Table 10). The central
Government's expenditure alone accounts for nearly 45% of the total regional
income. Manufacturing and forestry account for 9.4% and tourism for 4%.
5.05      The low level of development and the importance of public expend-
iture as a source of income are reflected in the unbalanced nature of cargo
movements between the port of Lae and the Central Highlands, i.e., more



- 23 -
inbound traffic than outbound. For example, as mentioned earlier, in 1975,
the inbound traffic was 200,000 tons compared with the outbound traffic of
44,000 tons, a 5 to 1 ratio. The volume of imported goods traffic has in-
creased fivefold in 10 years between 1965 and 1975 and the outward tonnage
by 6 times during the same period (Table 11). While the very high rate of
traffic growth is not likely to continue indefinitely, it is considered
likely that the present imbalance between inbound and outbound road trans-
port tonnage will remain unchanged for the foreseeable future. Freight move-
ment on the highway is expected to increase threefold in both inbound and
outbound tonnage during the 21 years between 1975 and 1996, or an average
annual rate of growth of about 6%, compared with the past growth rates of
between 18% and 19% (Table 11). This projection is based on conservative
estimates of future growth of regional income from both production and Govern-
ment expenditure, reflecting a likely slow-down of growth after the country's
Independence. The deceleration in the growth rate is expected to be parti-
cularly drastic in the case of the central Government's capital expenditure
in the region, which is projected to decrease from the annual average rate
of growth of 20% during the past 8 years to a little over 4.5% between 1973
and 1997. This would be partly the consequence of the expected continued
departure of Australian personnel from the region. The number of expatriate
personnel in the Central Highlands Region is expected to decrease from 660 in
1972 to 140 in 1996 and their expenditure from A$4.4 million to A$1 million.
5.06      1974 traffic volumes on the three project segments ranged between
some 300 and 450 aadt. The proportion of truck traffic varied between 30%
and 50%. The traffic growth rates were estimated for quinquennial intervals
beginning 1977 (Table 12). The expected opening year of the improved and
paved highway would be 1980. The overall growth rate for the period of
1980-85 is expected to be some 8-10% p.a. with variations depending on
vehicle type. The growth rates are projected to taper off to some 1-4% p.a.
toward the end of the twenty year economic life of the project. The fact
that the assumed growth rates are conservative, even after allowing for
possible slowing of business following Independence, can be seen by comparing
the projected growth rates with those in the years between 1972 (when the
improvement of the highway began under the Bank's first project) and 1974.
The annual growth rate during the period ranged between 11% and 28% in in-
dividual links, with an overall average of 22% p.a. The improvement of the
project road sections will materially alter the composition of traffic by
making it possible for semi-trailers to operate between the port of Lae and
the Highlands Region. A large part of the medium-size truck traffic would be
replaced by semitrailers and the resulting cost economy is an important part
of project benefit. The changing composition of traffic on three project
sections is shown in Table 12.
C. Benefits of the Project
5.07      The immediate effect of the proposed project will be lower trans-
port costs due to reduction in fuel consumption and wear and tear of vehicles,
higher speed of vehicle operation and the introduction of larger and more



- 24 -
efficient vehicles. Under the competitive conditions prevailing in the road
transport industry, the main part of the saving in vehicle operating costs is
expected to be passed on to shippers in the form of reduced transport charges,
as in previous cases (para 3.06). The improved highway would tend to maintain
and increase the degree of competition in the transport industry by encourag-
ing more operators to enter the business. To the extent that the demand for
transport is not completely inelastic, the lowered transport cost will induce
some additional productive activities using hitherto unemployed resources and
this, in turn, will generate additional traffic on the highway, which would
not have existed without the project. A complete analysis of a project there-
fore must include a detailed review of the possibility of traffic generation
based on a study of the region's human and natural resource potentials and
the Government's development programs.
5.08      Under the economic and social conditions prevailing in the Highlands
Region, however, the highway by itself, unless the Government takes comple-
mentary measures to encourage additional economic activities, may not give
rise to any significant increase in production, i.e., the spontaneous res-
ponse of farmers to the improved road conditions may be minimal. The ques-
tion of realizing developmental benefits is considered in paras 5.11-5.12.
5.09      In order to estimate the variations in vehicle operating costs on
the highway, a computer model was used to simulate road and vehicle operating
conditions for each project section of the highway. The determination of
transport cost savings through the simulation model is based on the consult-
ants' detailed estimates of operating costs of various vehicle types on roads
in various conditions. The vehicle operating cost data are shown in Table 13.
The results of the computer run show an average return for the project as a
whole of over 27% based solely on direct savings in transportation costs
(Table 14). The construction standard of the road sections (fully sealed
to Rural Road Class I) was chosen based on incremental analysis for each
section, which compared the incremental costs and incremental benefits for
alternative construction standards, e.g., improved gravel road and minimal
improved gravel with partial seal to make operation of larger vehicles
possible. The additional cost required for each increment of construction
standards is shown to yield returns ranging between about 50% and 90%. The
construction to fully sealed standard is therefore justified.
5.10      The calculated economic rate of return on this basis was tested
for its sensitivity to variations in costs or benefits. A 20% cost in-
crease or a similar reduction in benefit would lower the rate of return
to about 24%.
5.11      As noted in para 5.08, these rate of return calculations do not
include benefits from traffic generation from productive activities to be
induced by the project. This tends to underestimate project benefits, as
an important purpose of the project is to induce economic development in
the Central Highlands Region served by the highway, and not merely to save
costs on the existing traffic. Moreover, economic development to be in-
duced by the improved highway is a necessary condition for ensuring a full



- 25 -
participation of the poor farmers of the highland region in the benefits of
the project. However, since the Government does not yet have a comprehen-
sive development program for the region, there is little, if any, basis to
quantify additional benefits. In order to realize more fully the benefits
of the project, the Government agreed, during negotitions, to prepare and re-
view with the Association a development strategy for the Enga and Chimbu
provinces on the basis of the Rural Development Project Preparation Studies
covering those two provinces, which will be carried out by consultants
(para 4.08). The studies would commenced by July 1, 1977 and be completed
by September 30, 1978.
5.12      While the benefit estimates, based on transport cost savings alone,
understate the true magnitude of the benefits, these estimates under the
circumstances are not irrelevant for purposes of an investment decision.
On the contrary, the relatively high rate of return of 27% based on only a
partial estimate of benefits should be considered as evidence of the via-
bility of the project. Furthermore, improvement of efficiency of existing
transport facilities normally leads to some production increase even with-
out other Government measures and therefore is consistent with the aim of
developing the region's economy. Therefore, it is justified to proceed
with the improvement of the project sections without waiting for the com-
pletion of the proposed Rural Development Studies.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government and the Association agreed on
a number of matters, the more important ones being that the Government will:
(i) exchange views with the Association regarding the economic justification
of any material alteration which may be proposed to its regulations governing
the weights and dimensions, or operation, of motor vehicles, or the taxation
of heavy vehicles (para. 3.04); (ii) continue to strengthen the NWA and OT,
including recruitment and training of staff (para. 3.09); (iii) continue to
exchange views with the Association in the course of completing the Govern-
ment's current study of transport user charges (para. 3.15); (iv) carry out
Rural Development Project Preparation Studies in the Enga and Chimbu Provinces
in accordance with agreed terms and time schedule and will exchange views with
the Association on the study findings with a view to agreeing on high priority
development projects and a schedule for their implementation (paras. 4.08 and
5.11); and (v) carry out by force account only such works in the project as are
agreed with the Association, and in accordance with agreed procedures, and
will not divert resources from road maintenance works (paras. 4.20 and 4.21).
6.02      The project is suitable for a Development Credit of US$19 million
on the usual terms.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Description of Highlands Highway Sections (Between Goroka and Garnigl)
To Be Constructed and Improved
General
1.        The Highlands Highway extends for about 600 km from the port of Lae
to Mendi via Waterais, Goroka, Kundiawa and Mount Hagen. It is the only means
of transport, apart from air, for the entire Central Highlands Region. The
highway has been gradually upgraded since World War II from a primitive track,
but is still inadequate for much of its length. Only short sections, of about
30 km between Lae and Munum, 8 km through the Kassam Pass near Waterais, and
7 km between Mount Hagen and Kagamuga, have bituminous pavement, and for most
of its length between Lae and Kundiawa the road is narrow and, in some sec-
tions, poorly aligned. Furthermore, a number of segments run through mount-
ainous areas with soils which are very recent geologically and are unstable
and subject to frequent slips and sometimes to large-scale slides. Even with
prompt maintenance, such soil movements often interrupt traffic for several
hours and occasionally for days.
2.        Under the First Highway Project, three sections totalling 150 km
were reconstructed between Kundiawa and Mendi: (i) Kundiawa-Mini, (ii) Kudjip-
Mount Hagen-Togoba, and (iii) Kaupena-Assissi. The Government from its own
resources improved the remainder of the road between Mendi and Togoba. All
these sections received a gravel surface except for 7 km of bituminous sur-
facing in Mount Hagen and connecting the town with its airport near Kagamuga.
The remainder of the Highlands Highway also requires improvement, that is Lae-
Waterais-Kundiawa, and Minj-Kudjip and traffic has increased to a level which
would justify bituminous paving of the entire length of the highway between
Lae and Togoba. The Government expects to reconstruct, including bituminous
pavement, the 126 km presently unpaved through the Markham Valley between
Lae (Munum) and Kassam, with financial assistance from ADB.
3.        The Second Highlands Road Improvement Project includes the construc-
tion or improvement, including bituminous paving, of high priority sections,
totalling about 68 km between Goroka and Garnigl. This forms the first phase
of the Government's Seven-Year Program to complete the improvement and paving
of the entire Highlands Highway between Lae and Togoba. The design standards
for the road are generally "Rural Class 1" (Table 6). The total width is
7.5 m, consisting of a 5.5 m bituminous pavement and 1 m shoulders.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Detailed engineering was carried out on a total length of 317 km
of the Highlands Highway between Waterais and Togoba in preparation for
further Bank-financed projects and was divided, for design and economic
analysis, into 12 sections, including the three priority sections which
have been selected for the Second Highway Project. A description of each
of the three sections included in the project, and the work to be carried
out on them, follows.
Asaro-Watabung (18 km)
5.        From Asaro the road traverses hilly terrain for 5 km, where the
alignment is fairly good, with maximum gradients up to 5%.  The road then
traverses the Daulo Pass for a distance of 18 km, rising to a height of
2,400 m.  The alignment through the pass is governed by the rugged mount-
ainous terrain and there are many small radius curves, some with a design
speed as low as 30 km/hr, and with steep gradients, between 10% and 15% for
the entire length.  The Government has recently widened the section, but
further improvements to the drainage are required. During the wet season
slips frequently occurred on the steep side slopes and cuttings and the
Government stationed a maintenance force there to clear the obstructions as
they occurred. However, the slopes have gradually become stabilized, and
with further improvement to the drainage, future slips are not expected to
interfere seriously with traffic. There is one single-lane permanent bridge,
and one temporary Bailey bridge.
6.        The 18 km section through the Daulo Pass will be constructed
mainly on the existing alignment. The temporary bridge will be replaced by
a culvert, but the single-lane permanent bridge is in good condition and
will be retained. The present traffic is 250 aadt (50% trucks, 42% 4-wheel
drive vehicles, and 8% cars). There is no agricultural or other develop-
ment in this mountainous section, and there is virtually only through
traffic.
Chuave-Kundiawa (27 km)
7.        The existing road is 31 km long and passes through very mountainous
country. The alignment is bad and there are steep gradients of up to 15%.
The soil is unstable and many slips occur and sometimes major slides, fre-
quently blocking traffic for hours or even days, in spite of the Govern-
ment keeping earthmoving equipment on the stretch to clear it as quickly
as possible. Also, drainage is bad partly due to soil movements damaging
many culverts and drainage channels. There is one 70 m long single-lane
bridge over the Chimbu River near Kundiawa.
8.        After investigating several alternatives, the best solution was
found to be the construction of the road on a new alignment for about 20 km,
and to follow approximately the existing road for the remaining 7 km. The
new alignment will shorten the road by about 4 km and, in addition, will have
a better alignment, located so as to avoid most of the unstable soil areas.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
However, it will still have steep gradients up to 12%. A new two-lane bridge
will be constructed over the Chimbu River. The present traffic is 350 aadt
(40% trucks, 53% 4-wheel drive vehicles, and 7% cars). The area immediately
adjacent to the road is densely populated and a number of feeder roads serve
other densely populated areas of the valley. Coffee is the main cash crop.
Kundiawa-Garnigl (23 km)
9.        This section was improved under the First Highway Project and the
alignment is good. However, the road traverses a mountainous area with many
steep gradients up to 12% and with steep side slopes. Several slips have
occurred during the rainy season where the road crosses gullies filled with
unstable colluvial soils. Some of the slips have already been permanently
repaired by the Government and the remainder temporarily repaired or temporary
diversions constructed around them.
10.       The new work will consist of carrying out permanent repairs on the
slips, including installation of deep subsoil drainage, as well as paving the
entire length. The present traffic is 600 aadt (35% trucks, 50% 4-wheel drive
vehicles, and 15% cars), all through traffic since no traffic is generated
within the section.
December 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Public Roads Networks 1975
Road Networks in Kilometers (by Province)
Urban                Highway_                Trunk                           Declared
Not                   Not                    Not                             Minor
Province                Paved  Paved  Total  Paved  Paved  Total  Paved  Paved  Total  Feeder  Access   Roads    Total
1.   Western                      26     26                                                 179      861               1,066
2.   Gulf                         23     23                                  101    101       64      86                  274
3.   Central             147    163    310              22     22       8    378    386    588       444        22     1,772
4.   Milne Bay                    25     25                                    34     34    218      121         6        404
5.   Northern              3       9     12                                  134    134    290        80                  516
6.   Southern Highland            64     64             92      92             82     82    796      411                1,445
7.   Eastern Highland    11      48      59            188    188            140    140    530       456               1,373
8.   Chimbu                2       9     11             58     58            132    132    210       322                  733
9.   Western Highland      8     50      58       8    112    120             218    218    339      209       110      1,054
10.  Enga                         27     27                                  113    113    359       238         3        740
11. West Sepik                    16     16             25      25             79     79    275      164                  559
12.  East Sepik           22      35     57            205    205             179    179    347      410        16      1,214
13.  Madang               25      31     56             37      37            287    287    420      282        10      1,092
14. Morobe                37      71    108      31    148    179             270    270    219      515                1,291
15.  West New Britain      9      22     31                            39      88    127    294      365                  817
16.  East New Britain    38       13     51      61     13      74     27    222    249    304       439        18      1,135
17.  New Ireland           9      15     24            282    282             388    388    411      275                1,380
18.  Manus                         9      9                                    32     32      49       33                 123
19.  Bougainville         32      17     49      _                            553    553    348      352                1,302
Totals (kin)        343    673  1,016    100  ;1182  1,282        74  3,430  3,504  6,240   6,o63         185    18,290
Source:  Office of Transport, DTW.
December 1976                                                                                                                  |



PAPUA NEW GUINFA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet - Number of Vehicles on Register 1963-1974
(as of December 31)
Vehicle Type            1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   P.A. Growth
Motor Cars              4930  5517   6072   6888   8377  10123  11543  14634  14917  15673  14813  13396          10
Highlands              218    248  n.a.    3411   512    669    892   1034   1144   1283   1263   1135          16
Other Districts       4712   5269   n.a.   6547   7865   9454  10651  13600  13773  14390  13550  12261          9
Station Wagons & Jeeps   872   1127   1460   1650   2155   2812   2969   2880   4048   4384   4227   3914         15
Highlands               63    107   n.a.    182    232    313    328    348    453    530    531    490         21
Other Distiricts       809   1020   n.a.   1468   1923   2499   2641   2532   3595   3854   3696   3424         14
Motorcycles              558    684    896   1136   1520   2035   2231   2857   2994   3047   2949   3395         18
Highlands              177    183   n.a.    258    278    348    418    552    580    531    528    605         12
Other Districts        381   501   n.a.    878   1242   1687   1813   2305   2414   2516   2421   2790          20
Tractors 1/              430   523    598    699    990   1111   1410   1717   1749   1921   1940   1863          14
Highlands               82    109   n.a.    175    296    313    397    462    487    547    560    535         19
Other Districts        348    414  n.a.    524    694    798   1013   1255   1262   1374   1380   1328          13
Commercial Vehicles     4742   5199   6286   6888   7654   9378  11083  12579  14455  14673  15077  16398         12
Highlands              534    637   n.a.    966   1309   1819   2209   2598   2797   2921   3150   3224         18
Other Districts       4208   4562   n.a.   5922   6345   7559   8874   9981  11658  11752  11927  13174         11
Total                  11532  13050  15312  17261  20696  25459  29236  34667  38163  39698  39006  38966         12
Highlands             1074   1284   n.a.   1922   2627   3462   424- 4994   54-61  5812   6032   5989           17
Other Districts      10458  11766   n.a.  15339  0809  21997  24992  29673  32702  33886  32974  3277           11
1/ A large number of tractors are not subject to compulsory registration and are therefore not included
in these figures.
n.a.  Not available
Source:  Office of Transport, DTW
December 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Air Freight Movements at Highlands Airports 1963-75
(as of June 30)
(Tons)
Airport        1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
Kainantu       1732    2301      485       34      18       54      15      375     217       30       28      19       30
Goroka        11508   13985   12806       699    3493    1621    1046       925    1166    1210    1453    1744    1964
Minj             871     807    1077      541     377      121      233     120       34      23       14      31       32
Banz           1946    3249    3043    4429    2481        457     113       44      12       12       46       6        2
Mount Hagen    7168   10134   14003   14310   10168    6285    4749    4509    3146    4827    3697    3391    3225
Wabag            712     618     679    1089    1078       799     482      229     107      102      200     273      395
Wapenamanda      496     807    1058    1088    1587    1466       744      733     238      263      127     280      193
Mendi            494    1077    1539    1267    1492    1564    2200    2524    2037    1847    3268    2540    2401
Total         24933   32951   34608   32957   20694   12367    9582    9457    6957    7866    8833    8284    8242
*  Kundiawa  1974 - 298 tons
1975 - 233 tons
M
Source:  Office of Transport, DTW                                                                                           L
December 1976



TABLE 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads 1968-76
(K Million)
Actual                            Estimated
Type of Project 1/       68/69  69/70  70/71  71/72  72/73  73/74  74/75  75/76        76/77
(a) Capital:
Highway              1.3    2.4    3.5    8.2    7.9    7.5    9.3    9.7         13.5
Trunk                2.1    1.3    2.8    2.3    1.9      -       -     4.3        3.2
Development,
Agriculture
and Resource 2/   0.4    0.7    0.4    0.8    1.1       -       -      -          -
Rural Improvement   0.4    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.0    1.9    4.2    4.8           5.0
Urban                1.7    1.5    1.6    3.6    1.5      -       -      -          -
Unclassified          -      -     0.1    0.2      -      -       -      -          -
Subtotal      5.9    6.8    9.4   16.2   13.4    9.4   13.5   18.8         21.7
(b) Maintenance:
Roads and Bridges   6.0    6.9    8.5    9.6    9.9   13.2   18.9   16.3          18.9
Total        11.9   13.7   17.9   25.8   23.3   22.6   32.4   35.1         40.6
1/  Road projects have been classified according to their economic purpose as follows:
Highways: Principal traffic arteries connecting several major centers and on
which major works are needed, involving large-scale expenditures.
Trunk:     A road connecting two major centers over which there is substantial
existing traffic.
Development, Agriculture and Resource: Roads constructed to enable the util-
ization of major natural resources, including agricultural and
forestry development and mineral extraction.
Rural Improvement: Roads conferring general social or administrative benefits
on which large-scale expenditure cannot be justified. Government
R.I.P. Grant only is shown.
Urban:     Roads servicing existing or proposed urban centers or population.
2/  Excluding road construction associated with land development projects.
Source: Office of Transport, DTW
December 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Revenues from Use and Ownership of Vehicles
(K '000)
Import Duties
Vehicle Regis-      Petroleum         Motori       pare         Tyres
Year            tration Fees        Products*      Vehicles       Parts      and Tubes       TOTAL
1958/59              143               319             284          82           n.a.          828
1959/60              156               291             261          61           n.a.          769
1960/61              176               343             342          60           n.a.          921
1961/62              205               351             370          60           n.a.          986
1962/63              225               431            458           88           n.a.        1,202
1963/64              252               434            500           62           n.a.        1,248
1964/65              299               530             732          88           n.a.        1,649
1965/66              374               643          1,050          127           n.a.        2,194
1966/67              451               749          1,215          159           n.a.        2,574
1967/68              535               875          1,207          179           n.a.         2,796
1968/69              628               n.a.            n.a.        n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
1969/70              725             1,392           3,117         194           210         5,638
1970/71              830             1,970           2,313         265           242         5,620
1971/72            1,176             2,297           2,657         198           243         6,571
1972/73            1,233             2,208           1,960         280           281         5,950
1973/74            1,310             2,690          1,610          260           300         6,170
1974/75            1,400             2,880          1,590          270           320         6,460
1975/76 (est.)     1,700               n.a.            n.a.        n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
*  Automotive gasoline, distillate, lubricating oil, lubricating grease, hydraulic brake fluid.
Sources  Office of Transport, DIW
December 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Design Standards for Rural Roads
Class of Road    Terrain            Design     Max. Speed      Absolute       Desirable      General       Absolute      Maximum        Maximum        Overall        Pavement
Speed      for Sight       Minimum        Minimum        Maximum       Maximum       Length at      Length         Width          Width
Distance        Radius        Radius         Gradient      Gradient      Absolute       Desirable      Between
Benching        Curve         Curve                                      Maximum        Grade          Shoulders
Meters        Meters       Grade
per           per
km/hr       km/hr          Meters         Meters         Meter         Meter         Meters         Meters         Meters         Meters
Primary           Flat/Rolling        80          100           200 paved       350           .04           .07                  No Limit              12    1/         6.5
250 gravel                                                                             10.5
Hilly               60           80           125 paved       250           .06            .08         600            1,200          11    1/         6.5
130 gravel                                                                             10
Mountainous         40           60            50 paved         90          .08           .10          250              500          8.5              6.0
60 gravel
Rural            Flat/Rolling         60           80           125 paved       250           .06            .08         600            1,200          10.5  2/         6.0
Class 1                                                         130 gravel                                                                             8.5
Hilly               50           60            95 paved        150           .08           .10         300               600         8.0              6.0
95 gravel
Mountainous         30           50            30 paved         50           .10           .12         250               500          7.5              5.5
30 gravel
Rural            Flat/Rolling         60           80           130 gravel       250           .06           .08         600            1,200          8.5               3.6
Class 2          Hilly                40           50            60 gravel        75           .10           .12         250               500          7.0              3.6
Mountainous         25           40            20 gravel        30           .12           .14         150               300          7.0              3.6
Rural            Flat/Rolling         50           60            95 gravel       150           .08           .10         500            1,000          7.0               3.6
Class 3          Hilly                30           40            30 gravel        50           .10           .12         250               500          6.0              3.6
Mountainous         25           30            20 gravel        30           .12           .14          150              300          6.0              3.6
Access                                                                  As  for  Rural  Class  3                                                        5.0              3.6
Class 1
Access                                                                 As  for  Rural   Class  3                                                        3.6         Full width
Class 2                                                                                                                                                            as required
Bridge Loading: AASHO Standard H 20 - S 16
Pavement: Axle load 18,000 lbs (design based on projected number of repetitions of
"equivalent 18,000 lbs axle loads").
1/ The higher is to be adopted where traffic volume is between 2,500 and 5,000 v.p.d.
2/   "   "      "  "   "   "      in rolling terrain where sight distances are limited.
Source:  Department of Transport, Works and Supply                                                                                                                             r
December 1976                                                                                                                                                                   0



TABLE 7
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEM13R PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Pro1ect
K (Million)                   US$ (Million)             Foreign
Exchange
Project Item                                        Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total        Component
A. Road Construction and Improvement
1. Construction and improvement, in-
cluding bituminous paving, of 3
sections (totalling about 68 km)
of the Highlands Highway between
Goroka and Garnigl                          4.273    9.970   14.243        5.128   11.964   17.092            70
B.  Engineering and Supervision of A
1. Detailed engineering (retroactive)
of Waterais-Togoba (317 km)                 0.180    0.720    0.900        0.216    0.864    1.080            80
2.  Supervision of A                            0.328    0.767    1.095        0.394    0.919    1.313            70
Subtotal B                           0.508    1.487    1.995         0.610    1.783    2.393
C. Rural Development Studies
1. Rural Development Studies of the
Enga and Chimbu Provinces (about
30 man-months)                              0.041    0.167    0.208        0.050    0.200    0.250            80
D. Feasibility Studies and Engineering
of Further Roads
1. Feasibility studies for construc-
tion and improvement of Togoba-
Wapenamanda Road (about 63 km), to
be followed by detailed engineering
if found justified, and updating of
existing feasibility study of the
Highlands Highway between Waterais
and Togoba (about 40 man-months)            0.041    0.167    0.208        0.050    0.200    0.250            80
E.  Technical Assistance to Local
Contractors
1. Technical assistance to local civil
engineering contractors (about 40
man-months)                                 0.025    0.100    0.125        0.030    0.120    0.150            80
Subtotal A-E                         4.888   11.891   16.779         5.868   14.267   20.135
F. Contingency Allowanceb
1.  Physical V/                                 0.471    1.117    1.588        0.565    1.340    1.905
2.  Price 2/                                    1.287    3.042    4.329        1.545    3.650    5.195
Subtotal F                            1.758    4.159    5.917        2.110    4.990    7.100
Total Cost of Works                  6.646   16.050   22.696         7.978   19.257   27.235            71
G.  Right-of-Way                                    0.250      -        0.250       0.300      -        0.300
Total Cost of Project                6.896   16.050   22.946         8.278   19.257   27.535            70
1/ 10% on all items except B.1.
2/ Price increases on all items except B.1 and G (on "base" prices
at end of September 1976) at estimated rate of 12% per year.
Sources: Bid prices received October 1976 on about 50% of the work
in Item A. 1. Estimates by Department of Transport, Works and
Supply, and Consultants for the remainder of the project
December 1976



TABLE 8
page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
To be implemented by
Action                                                 Start            Complete
A. Road Construction and Improvement
1. Construction (by force account) of           July 23, '76      Aug. 31, '79
8.5 km length of the Chuave-Kundiawa
Section, immediately east of Kundiawa,
(earthworks, drainage and sub-base).
2. Appoint consultants to supervise             Jan. 31, '77
construction and improvement works.
3. Appoint consultants to assist in             Jan. 31, '77
management of force account
construction.
4. Construction (by contracts) of               Feb. 15, '77       June 30, '80
remaining 18.5 km of Chuave-Kundiawa
Section (earthworks, drainage and
sub-base).
5. Construction (by contracts) of Asaro-        Feb. 15, '77      Dec. 31, '78
Watabung Section (including bitumi-
nous paving).
6. Construction (by force account) of           June  1, '77      Dec. 31, '79
Kundiawa-Garnigl Section (earthworks,
drainage and sub-base).
7. Construction (by contracts) of Chuave-       June  1, '78      Sep. 30, '80
Kundiawa Section (base and bituminous
surfacing).
8. Construction (by contracts)of                June  1, '79       Sep. 30, '80
Kundiawa-Garnigl Section (base and
bituminous surfacing).
1/ Consultants have been appointed on an interim and temporary basis to under-
take, in respect of the construction and improvement works which have been
in progress (by force account) since July 23, 1976, the following duties:
(a) to supervise the works; and (b) to assist in management of the works.



TABLE 8
page 2
To be implemented by
Action                                                 Start            Complete
B. Detailed Engineering of A
1. Detailed engineering of 317 km of                                completed
Highlands Highway between Waterais
and Togoba (by consultants).
C. Rural Development Project Preparation
Studies (by consultants)
1. Rural Development project preparation         July  1, '77      Sep. 30, '78
studies of Enga and Chimbu Provinces
D. Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering for Future Road Projects
(by consultants)
1. Feasibility study of 63 km length of          June  1, '77      Dec. 31, '77
the Togoba-Wapenamanda road.
2. Review, completion and amendment  as          Apr.  1, '78      Sep. 30, '78
necessary of detailed engineering of
the Togoba-Wapenamanda road previous-
ly carried out.
3. Update feasibility study of Highlands         June  1, '77      Dec. 31, '77
Highway, between Waterais and Togoba.
4. Prepare bid documents for further             Apr.  1, '78      Sep. 30, '78
improvements to Highlands Highway,
between Waterais and Togoba.
E. Technical Assistance to Local Civil
Engineering Contractors (by consultants)
1. Advertisement, receipt of applica-            June  1, '77      Sep.  1, '77
tions and selection of consultants.
2. Technical assistance program.                 Nov.  1, '77      Aug. 31, '79
Source: Department of Transport, Works and Supply, and Consultants
December, 1976



TABLE 9
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
Association Fiscal Year                          at End of Quarter
and Quarter                                   (US$ '000)
1976/77
March 31, 1977                                        1,300
June 30, 1977                                         1,700
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                    2,500
December 31, 1977                                     3,800
March 31, 1978                                        5,600
June 30, 1978                                         6,600
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                    7,600
December 31, 1978                                     9,000
March 31, 1979                                       10,800
June 30, 1979                                        12,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                   13,200
December 31, 1979                                    14,600
March 31, 1980                                       15,800
June 30, 1980                                        16,700
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                   17,500
December 31, 1980                                    18,200
March 31, 1981                                       18,700
June 30, 1981                                        19,000
Source: Estimates by Department of Transport, Works and Supply,
Consultants and Association
December, 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Regional Income Data
for
Four Highlands Provinces
(K Million)
Government Expenditure                        % of Government
Manufacturing              Local  Central Government Total                      Expenditure in
Agriculture   and  Forestry    Tourism    Govt. Recurrent  Capital Govt.         Total      Total Regional Income
Actual
1965         6.15           1.00           0.48      0.20    4.82       3.34    8.36      15.99               52
1966         7.33           1.25           0.56      0.54    5.65       6.29   12,48      21.62               58
1967         8.35           1.47           0.61      0.82     6.11      8.39   15.32      25.75               59
1968        11.20           1.50           0.81      1.19     6.68      8.20  16.07       29.58               54
1969        13.10           1.85           0.97      1.82     6.64      9.16   17.62      33.54               52
1970        16.35           2.34           1.21      2.68     7.77      9.87   20.32      40.22               50
1971        18.24           2.63           1.41      3.12     8.36     11.50   22.98      45.26               51
1972        16.33           2.97           1.76      3.78   10.41      12.65   26.84      47.90               54
1973        17.17           3.35           2.48      4.35     9.66     13.99   28.00      51.00               55
Projected
1977        19.99           5.35           5.62      6.65     9.41     17.60   33.66      64.62               52
1982        29.43           8.76           9.04      8.90    11.13     22.50   42.53      89.76                47
1987        39.87          13.34          14.57     14.34    12.90     28.80  56.04      123.82               45
1992        50.59          19.03          23.46     23.09   15.41      36.70   75.20     168.28               45
1997        63.63          25.70          37.81     37.20   19.08      46.90  103.18      230.32               44
trj
Source:  Consultants Vallentine, Laurie and Davies
December 1976



TABLE 11
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Past and Projected Road Freight
between Highlands and Coastal (Lae) Regions
(1000 Tons)
Actual                    To Highlands                 From Highlands
1965                          38                            7.5
1966                          56*                           9,3
1967                          70*                          10.8
1968                           83*                         16.4
1969                          92                           18.5
1970                         115                           23.7
1971                         136*                           22.8
1972                         142                            23.8*
1973                         155*                           25.6*
1975                          200*-                        44.0*
Projected
1977                          222                          48.8
1982                          316                          69.5
1987                         442                           97.2
1992                         576                          126.7
1996                         660                          145.2
* Estimated
Source:  Consultants Vallentine, Laurie and Davies
December 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Traffic Projections on Highlands Highway 1974-2002
Annual Average Daily Traffic Volume
Highway Sections           Asaro-Chuave               Chuave-Kundiawa               Kundiawa-Minj
of which                    of which                     of which
Total   Medium   Semi-      Total   Medium   Semi-       Total   Medium   Semi-
Year                         Trucks  Trailers             Trucks  Trailers             Trucks  Trailers
Without the Project
1974                   205     80        2         295      84        2         438      105       3
1977                   284     98        2         394    101         2         552      125       3
1982                   430    129        2         628    147         2         870      176       3
1987                   668    197        2         909    207         2       1,273      241       3
1992                   873    265        2       1,165    277         2       1,612      323       3
1997                   990    309        2       1,221    322         2       1,865      380       3
2002                 1,238    376        2       1,335    392        2        2,183      441      3
With the Project
1974                   205     80        2         295      84        2         438      105       3
1977                   237     28       24         343      31       25         523       43      29
1982                   372     38       37         533      41       39         782       57     43
1987                   565     47       54          798     52       56       1,146       67     63
1992                   729     56       73       1,008      58       76       1,438       79      87
1997                   818     57       88       1,034      59       91       1,164       92    104
2002                 1,025     57      107       1,082      60     111        2,007      107    133
Source:  Consultants Vallentine, Laurie and Davies
December 1976



TABLE 13
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEME~NT PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
(Kina per KCm)
____  SPEED      KM/HOUR      ____ ___
88       80       72       64       56       48        40       32        24       16       10      ROAD  CL.ASS    VEHICLE
0.03804  0.0-06  0.03608  0.03531 0.03454  0.03385  0.033,41  0.03273  0.03278  0.03254 0.03308   1  -   SEALED           3:
_ _ _ _   _____                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~0
0.04336  0.04221  0.04096 0.04006  0.03926  0.03875  0.03796  0.0'770  0.03775 0.03969  i  -   GRAVEL   -
0.04333  0.04376  0.04352  0.04392  0.04424 0.04631  11  -   GRAVEL   0
0.04738  0.04878  0.04910  0.05014  0.05075 0.05292  III -   GRAVEL
0.08939  0.08758  0.08576  0.08415 0.08251  0.08120  0.08075  0.08081  0.08171  0.0843C 0.08724  1  -   SEALED
0.10247  0.10033  0.09760 0.09570  0.09418  0.09367  0.09374  0.09478  0.09779 0.10468  1  -   GRAVEL   r
0.10393  0.10577  0.10747  0.10949  0.11464 0.12213  It  -   GRAVEL
0.11367  0.11789  0.12121  0.1242C  0.13150 0.13958  III -   GRAVEL
0.11541  0.11445  0.11415  0.11497 0.11819  0.12201  0.12932  0.14180  0.16195  0.1981) 0.25671  1  -   SEALED
0.13848  0.13811  0.13796 0.14M1  0.14520  0.15260  0.16590  0.18948  0.22792 0.29264  1  -   GRAVEL
0.16105  0.17328  0.19142  0.22187  0.26953 0.33885  11  -   GRAVEL 
0.17692  0.19398  0.21694  0.25426  0.31116 0.38507  III -   GRAVEL   r
0.11652  0.10972  0.11125  0.11387 0.11804  0.12489  0.13541  0.15124  0.17937  0.2300410.27883  1  -   SEAL ED
0.13276  0.13460  0.13664 0.14046  0.14862  0.15978  0.17694 10.20987  0.26455 0.31786  1  -   GRAVEL 
0.16485  0.18144  0.20417  0.24573  0.31285 0.36805  11  -   GRAVEL 
0.18109  0.20312  0.23139  0.28161  0.36116 0.41825  III -   GRAVEL
0.20591  0.19064  0.19295  0.19970 0.20824  0.22634  0.24979  0.28737  0.34736  0.474-45 0,54156  I  -   SEALED
0.26117  0.26047  0.25961 0.27695  0.29650  0.32223  0.36783  0.43768  0.58831 0.66612  1  -   GRAVEL
0.33272  0.37469  0.43105  0.52104  0.69270 0.79068  11  -   GRAVEL   -
0.36892  0.42713  0.49427  0.60439  0.79707 0.90982  III -   GRAVEL
.29175  0.28387  0.28380  0.29086 0.30126  0.32057  0.34943  0.39686  0.47572  0.63484 0.71020  1  -   SEALED    ,,
0.38890  0.38313  0.37811 0.40060  0. 41995  0.45075  0.50798  0.59940  0.78719 0.87355  1   -   GRAVEL 
0.47123  0.52415  0.59529  0.71357  0.92685 1.03688  1 1  -   GRAVEL 
0.52252  0.59753  0.68259  0.82775  1.06653 1.20023  III -   GRAVEL
).39942  0.38991  0.38289  0.38447 0.38334  0.39146  0.39366  0.44722  0.51384  0.68800 0.72187  1  -   SEALED   ~
0.53416  0.51689  0.49981 0.50984  0.51281  0.50781  0.57244  0.64743  0.85312 0.88789  I   -   GRAVEL
0.57544  0.59048  0.67082  0.77076  1.00447 1.053912  11  -   GRAVEL   ,
.6380W7  067315  0.76921  0.8.9408  1.15583 1.21996  III -   GRAVEL
Source: Consultants Vallentine, Laurie and Davies
December 1976



TABLE 14
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECOND HIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Net Benefit and Cost Flows
(K '000)
Total
Project                      Individual Sections
All Three    Asaro-Watabang   Chuave-Kundiawa   Kundiawa-Garnigl
Year           Sections         Section            Section            Section
1976              -895             -30               -775                -90
1977           -7,604          -1,055              -5,937               -612
1978           -5,019              257             -3,740             -1,536
1979              -366             909                222             -1,497
1980            4,675              963              3,031                681
1981            4,982           1,007               3,238                737
1982             5,309          1,051               3,454                804
1983            5,650           1,137               3,687                826
1984            5,742              976              3,922                844
1985             5,672          1,314               3,796                562
1986             6,679          1,405               4,393                881
1987             7,024          1,493               4,630                901
1988             7,547          1,645               4,961                941
1989             7,822          1,548               5,293                981
1990             7,942          1,952               5,269                721
1991            9,126           2,104               5,960              1,062
1992            9,656           2,260               6,293              1,103
1993            9,874           2,324               6,429              1,121
1994            9,849           2,141               6,567              1,141
1995            9,659           2,456               6,343                860
1996           10,542           2,522               6,839              1,181
1997           10,769           2,589               6,978              1,202
1998           11,058           2,659               7,162              1,237
1999            8,628            -                  7,348              1,230
Economic Rate
of Return     27.5%           64.0%               25.1%              18.3%
Source: Consultants Vallentine, Laurie and Davies
December 1976



PAPUA NEW GOUNEA SECOND HIIGHLANDS ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
D.rtmnt of Trmnsport, Works and SUpply
MINISTER OF           MINISTER OF
TRANOSRT              AOUSING AND
AND WORES             SUFPLY
DEPRTMNT OF TRASOTWRKSADSPL
NATIONAL          VARH ORS                                OFFICE OF                                                         NATIONAL WORKS|                                                                                                    C               NATIONAL
AIRLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUTLY'HUSING                    1
COMMISSION        RARe                                     TRANsPoRT                                                        AUTHORITY PLAN  ARCT
CRAIRMrANI        ICRAIRMAC I                __            .IDIRECTORI                                                     IDIROTORI                     _REAORI
ISAERA             AGENAY              DIISO                 PLNNN                 SEVIE                                                                                   TRANPOR                SEVIE               MEN  & TRINN           D      "E^R9VIFOE"|
I   I  .    .      ,h    I                             .                _
I,9Th Cw,ESAvlO f I  AICl AVI O- Iss                             
RUt A T UARFAT   Ih Ain FUR F lMAITMEl  DIISONPANNING                             4ARChRITECTURE             RIDDED               PROJECTS             C  ATINTh HCE          FIAE
The .POIA NSR    | I i9lato .IRinnrIM I
,G.,,n MIIlOl    I  .aGIAII.RF.l    I
I cAITIRRIAROO   I Id EIThOHI   IbIR ,      AN
I  h h, wnv wl 
ionproTWi-lt~~~~~ ~  sI,,,E
Ioa. A -- l    A.. . . . .                                                                                                                                                   t   
WiS Itn IIRAIASI o I  I OfIORIRdEN |R TRNPR                      SURVEYS               BUILDIN               AENECRALA   |         OSROTO               PLN  AESNE TRANS.SIN
~~1.1h. c-rTR                                                                                                                                               qSRIE             liSrL
IRS IS. IIIIIAI,AIA  III,WIUI                                                                                 PORT TRUST            INTERNAIONRANING                            GOVERNMENT
ROEISIIOAOIlI                                    GOVRNENV|. DYRU  R5LDATOAI 
IM CRIIRIAII.II I I TISIRIRVIA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-u 11 L .~
WOFR.1  KE                                                                                                             MECHANIC                                                                           > MANADEMNT
Soule Dparmen ofTraIllt IARiARs ndI  I                                         SURVEY                WoRDS                                                                                                                               ACOMOOATION
FF.IONA1        DIVIIONG                                                                                                        TILIAALA               .IVSIT
I ITO AORAA-II.A ICL                                                                                                                                                    7    .E:: I
ENGINFIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           F-I.EEFS  L;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNEALSTREI
COMPUTERS                                                               SERVICES                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WdUPPLY67



