Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5470 
Operation Name 
Water Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P120134 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales 
(SEMARNAT) 
Blvd. Adolfo Ruiz Cortinez No. 4209, piso 4 
–
Ala “A” 
Col. Jardines en la Montaña 
México, D.F. 14210 
Tel: (52-55) 5490-0987 
 
Fax: (52-55) 5490-2124 
E-mail: roberto.cabral@semarnat.gob.mx 
Date PID Prepared 
March 3, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 13, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 27, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Climate change will be the most serious environmental problem that humankind will face 
in the 21
st
 century
;
it threatens all countries, but developing countries are the most vulnerable. 
Preliminary estimates suggest that developing countries would bear some 75 to 80 percent of the 
costs of damages caused by the changing climate. Climate change impacts development to its 
roots and in its many dimensions. It threatens to deepen vulnerabilities, erode hard-won gains, 
and seriously undermine prospects for development. 
 
Climate change directly affects the water cycle and, through it, the quantity and quality of 
water resources available to meet human and environmental demands.
 Climate change can 
lead to an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and droughts. Rising sea levels have 
serious effects on coastal aquifers which are a major source of water supply systems, and higher 
water temperatures and changes in extremes can exacerbate many forms of water pollution. 
Water supply reliability, health, agriculture, energy, and aquatic ecosystems will feel the impact 
of these changes to the water cycle. 
 
Mexico is particularly vulnerable to climate change because its impact exacerbates the 
existing severe constraints in water resource management.
 Surface and groundwater in the 
country suffer heavily from overexploitation and contamination due to an inefficient use of water 
in the context of water scarcity. In 1955, water availability in Mexico was 11,500 cubic meters 
(m
3
)
per person per year. By 2005, this amount decreased to 3,822m
3
.
This decrease in 
availability was caused primarily by non-climatic reasons: population growth and economic 
development. Projections, based solely on population growth, estimate water availability to 
decrease further to 3,610m
3
by 2012, 3,285m
3
by 2030, and 3,260m
3
by 2050. In addition, the 
persistence of inefficient agricultural irrigation practices, overexploitation of aquifers, and the 
inadequate treatment of municipal and industrial wastewater will increase the vulnerability of 
water resources. Climate change impacts will only worsen current conditions.
 
Page  2
While mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions is needed to avoid an unmanageable 
warming of the planet, adaptation is necessary to manage unavoidable negative impacts 
already taking place. 
Water managers have always had to cope with variability of natural 
conditions. But climate change imposes new challenges by increasing variability and uncertainty 
of the hydrological cycle. The response to variability is adaptation. In adaptation to water, the 
three main priorities are to: (a) reduce vulnerability to increase protection of people and 
ecosystems, (b) protect and restore ecosystems that provide critical land and water resources and 
services, and (c) close the gap between water supply and demand. The costs of adaptation for the 
water sector rank as one of the top three adaptation costs globally; it is recognized 
that 
the 
clearest opportunities to reduce the costs of adaptation are in water supply and flood protection.
 
Mexico’s engagement in CC has been very strong since the early 1990s, with the active 
involvement of public and private sectors.
 Mexico was one of the first countries to 
successfully implement an energy savings program under the CC window of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in early 1992. In 1995, it launched internationally its first volunteer 
carbon market initiative and proceeded to implement reforestation projects. Mexican institutions 
and scientists have actively contributed to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC) and the U.S. Country Studies Program, thus being one of the first non-Annex 1 countries 
to submit its First National Communication to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC). The GOM signed and ratified the UNFCCC and the Kyoto 
Protocol, promoted the creation of the North American Commission for Environmental Co-
operation (NACEC), has been an active player in the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), 
and has advocated for a North-South collaborative formula and the establishment of a Green 
Fund to advance the mitigation and adaptation objectives of the Convention. During COP 15 in 
Copenhagen, Mexico presented its Fourth Communication which was officially submitted on 
January 19, 2010. 
Building on the National Development Plan 2007-2012 (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, PND), 
the country developed a National Climate Change Strategy (
Estrategia Nacional de Cambio 
Climático
,
ENACC), in 2007. In order to put into operation the Climate Change aspects of 
the PND, as stated in the ENACC, the GoM launched the Climate Change Especial 
Program (
Programa Especial de Cambio Climático,
 PECC), in 2009
;
the latter is a binding 
document for the public sector that seeks to engage the private sector and civil society to achieve 
the main goal of halving the country’s emissions by 2050. In 1995, the first multi-stakeholder-
intergovernmental working group, known as the 
Club de Industriales
,
was established to discuss 
strategies to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG). Soon after, private sector companies 
established their own voluntary GHG emissions inventories. Today, the private sector, academia, 
and civil society participate prominently and actively in the consultative bodies of the high-level 
Climate Change Multi-Sector Committee (
Comité Intersectorial de Cambio Climático
,
CICC). 
Water is a key pillar in Mexico’s Plans and Programs, and it is considered one of the main 
issues to tackle under almost every climate scenario modeled. 
The sector is committed to 
contribute to the GOM’s mitigation goals through reduced energy consumption derived from 
savings and more efficient use (that is, through the regulation of water-saving technologies and 
appliances), conservation of riparian corridors (through ecological flows regulation), and 
watershed management (through national and local payment for environmental services). Most 
important, the PND advances adaptation measures aimed at managing both supply and demand, 
improving infrastructure, and increasing water security in the face of CC. 
Page  3
Three main instruments define the GOM’s policy framework and efforts in the water 
sector
:
the National Development Plan (
Plan Nacional de Desarollo
,
PND) and the National 
Infrastructure Plan (
Plan Nacional de Infraestructura
,
PNI), both prepared by the Office of the 
President, and the National Water Program (
Plan Nacional Hidrico
,
PNH) prepared by the 
National Water Commission (CONAGUA). The three plans have a strong policy articulation 
enabling a framework for the sector congruent with the development objectives of the 
Government. 
CONAGUA is responsible for the implementation of the water sector policy framework 
described in the PND, PNI, and PNH. 
This implementation is done based on several federal 
programs in the sector that are geared toward satisfying the demand for water for irrigation, 
drinking water, and wastewater collection and treatment. These programs provide the financial 
incentives towards better use of the resource through improved efficiency in agricultural 
irrigation, increased access to water services, optimization of the water utilities operation, 
enhancements in their technical and commercial efficiencies and improvements in the ambient 
environmental quality of the nation’s rivers. The majority of these programs have a strong focus 
on the poor (see Annex 5 for a detailed description of the existing federal programs).  
The activities described above constitute the foundations of the Water and Climate Change 
DPL, whose aim is the consolidation of the Bank’s sustained commitment in climate change 
adaptation and in the water sector.
 The proposed operation brings to the front continued 
support to strengthen the GOM’s policy, strategy, and governance frameworks to address 
adaptation issues in the water sector. Overall, the Water and Climate Change DPL constitutes the 
bridge and logical next step between climate change policy support and water sector engagement 
in Mexico. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
This DPL will support the GOM’s efforts to ensure adaptation to climate change in the 
water sector
,
contributing to a long-term sustainable growth path for the country, and ensuring 
the protection of the most vulnerable populations. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed operation comprises two policy areas
 which are detailed below: (1) Promoting 
Integrated Water Resource Management; and (2) Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change 
in the Water Sector.  
Policy Area 1: Promoting Integrated Water Resource Management. 
Prior Actions are based 
on: 
submission of the fourth Communication to the UNFCCC; (ii) Water Banks to promote 
water rights enforcements and water conservation and sustainability; (iii) strengthening of Basin 
Councils; (iv) enforcement of hydro meteorological services.  
Policy Area 2: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector. 
Prior 
Actions are based on: 
(i) Norms on Demand Management; (ii) Norms on Recharge of Aquifers; 
(iii) Wastewater Treatment Funding Program with criteria promoting adaptation activities in the 
sector; (iv) improvement of the operation rules of the Program for Modernization and 
Technology Upgrade of Irrigation Units with clear objectives and criteria promoting the 
sustainable use of groundwater resources and supporting the most vulnerable producers; (v) 
Page  4
groundwater resources restriction decree to enhance adaptation capacities to extreme hydro 
meteorological events and (iv) micro-watersheds regulation.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
TBD 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X]  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP/BP 
4.10) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental 
and Social Issues in Bank-Supported Projects (OP/BP 4.00) 
[
]
[X] 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
450 
 Total 
450 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Gustavo Saltiel 
Title: Sector Leader  
Tel: 5782+4239 / 52-55-5480-4239 
Fax: (52-55) 5480-4222/4282/4271 
Email: gsaltiel@worldbank.org 
Location: Mexico City, Mexico (IBRD)
 
