Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5738 
Operation Name 
Framework for Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P120134 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales 
(SEMARNAT) 
Blvd. Adolfo Ruiz Cortinez No. 4209, piso 4, Ala “A” 
Col. Jardines en la Montana 
Mexico, D.F. 14210 
Tel: (52-55) 5490-0987 
Fax: (52-55) 5490-2124 
E-mail: roberto.cabral@semarnat.gob.mx 
Date PID Prepared 
May 11, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 19, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
June 10, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Climate change will be the most serious environmental problem that humankind will face 
in the 21st century
;
it threatens all countries, but developing countries are the most vulnerable. 
Preliminary estimates suggest that developing countries would bear some 75 to 80 percent of the 
costs of damages caused by the changing climate. Climate change impacts development to its 
roots and in its many dimensions. It threatens to deepen vulnerabilities, erode hard-won gains, 
and seriously undermine prospects for development. Climate change directly affects the water 
cycle and, through it, the quantity and quality of water resources available to meet human and 
environmental demands. It can lead to an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and 
droughts. Rising sea levels have serious effects on coastal aquifers which are a major source of 
water supply systems, and higher water temperatures and changes in extremes can exacerbate 
many forms of water pollution. Water supply reliability, health, agriculture, energy, and aquatic 
ecosystems will feel the impact of these changes to the water cycle.  
 
Mexico is particularly vulnerable to climate change because its impact exacerbates the 
existing severe constraints in water resource management
.
Surface and groundwater in the 
country suffer heavily from overexploitation and contamination due to an inefficient use of water 
in the context of water scarcity. In 1955, water availability in Mexico was 11,500 cubic meters 
(m3) per person per year. By 2005, this amount decreased to 3,822m3. This decrease in 
availability was caused primarily by non-climatic reasons: population growth and economic 
development. Projections, based solely on population growth, estimate water availability to 
decrease further to 3,610m3 by 2012, 3,285m3 by 2030, and 3,260m3 by 2050. In addition, the 
persistence of inefficient agricultural irrigation practices, overexploitation of aquifers, and the 
Page  2
inadequate treatment of municipal and industrial wastewater will increase the vulnerability of 
water resources. Climate change impacts will only worsen current conditions. 
 
Building on the National Development Plan 2007-2012 (
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
,
PND), 
the country developed a National Climate Change Strategy 
(
Estrategia Nacional de Cambio 
Climático
,
ENACC), in 2007. In order to put into operation the Climate Change aspects of the 
PND, as stated in the ENACC, the Government of Mexico (GoM) launched the Climate Change 
Especial Program (
Programa Especial de Cambio Climático
,
PECC), in 2009; the latter is a 
binding document for the public sector that seeks to engage the private sector and civil society to 
achieve the main goal of halving the country’s emissions by 2050.  
 
Water is a key pillar in Mexico’s Plans and Programs, and it is considered one of the main 
issues to tackle under almost every climate scenario modeled
.
The sector is committed to 
contribute to the GoM’s mitigation goals through reduced energy consumption derived from 
savings and more efficient use (that is, through the regulation of water-saving technologies and 
appliances), conservation of riparian corridors (through ecological flows regulation), and 
watershed management (through national and local payment for environmental services). Most 
important, the PND advances adaptation measures aimed at managing both supply and demand, 
improving infrastructure, and increasing water security in the face of climate change. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
This Development Policy Loan (DPL) will support the GoM’s efforts to ensure adaptation 
to climate change in the water sector, contributing to long-term sustainable growth and 
protecting the most vulnerable populations.
 
Reduced water availability and poor water 
quality are two of the main factors affecting future growth and development in Mexico.  Key to 
addressing core development challenges is the enactment of measures to adapt to climate change 
whose aim is ensuring proper water resources management through appropriate regulations, 
norms, institutional reforms, and financial mechanisms. The proposed operation comprises two 
policy areas that are detailed below.  They are: (a) Strengthening the Institutional Framework 
and Monitoring Capacity in Integrated Water Resources Management; and (b) Establishing the 
Normative and Financial Framework to Mainstream Adaptation to Climate Change in Water 
Programs.  
The objective of the proposed operation is to support the government's efforts aimed at 
strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in integrated water 
resources management as well as mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water 
programs
.
T
he
proposed DPL supports the government’s policy commitment to adaptation to 
climate change in the water sector, including the allocation of institutional and financial 
resources and strengthening of monitoring and evaluation capacity.  
The prior actions established below capture the two-
level nature of the government’s 
program and the Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL 
(see Box 1).  This 
is achieved first by recognizing the importance of the over-arching framework established 
through the 
GoM’s policy and institutional framework in Integrated Water Resources 
Management (including its climate change adaptation agenda in the sector), and second by 
setting up the required norms, operating rules and financial instruments that provide the 
Page  3
necessary instrument to ensure the proper implementation of the institutional and policy 
framework.  These prior actions, taken as a whole, put Mexico on the path to achieving its 
ambitious climate change agenda with regard to adaptation in the water sector.   
 
Box 1
:
Overview of Proposed Operation’s Components and Prior Actions 
The government has agreed upon and implemented the following prior actions: 
Policy Area 1:
 Strengthening the Institutional Framework and Monitoring Capacity in 
Integrated Water Resources Management  
1. 
Mexico has strengthened its commitment to climate change in the water sector by submitting 
the Fourth Communication to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC). 
2. The National Water Commission (
Comisión Nacional del Agua
,
CONAGUA) has 
strengthened the institutional framework for Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM) 
by delegating increased responsibility to 18 River Basin Councils to oversee, plan and manage 
projects and programs established in Watershed Management Plans. 
3. 
CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for IWRM by setting up two water 
banks in order to foster the sustainable management and efficient administration of water 
resources. 
Policy Area 2:
 Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Programs 
4. 
CONAGUA has issued two norms to provide regulatory instruments to promote the 
conservation of groundwater resources. 
5. 
CONAGUA has incorporated in the Wastewater Treatment Funding Program (
Fondos 
Concursables
)
criteria promoting the recharge of aquifers and water reuse for conservation of 
groundwater resources. 
6. 
The National Forestry Commission (
Comisión Nacional Forestal
,
CONAFOR) has issued 
operating rules for the Special Program for the Conservation and Protection of 
Microwatersheds in priority areas to promote reduction of soil erosion, reforestation and forest 
protection. 
7. 
CONAGUA has strengthened the protection of overexploited aquifers by means of its 
programs to improve the water productivity of irrigation. 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Mexico and the World Bank Group have had a longstanding partnership that encompasses 
the delivery of the full menu of financial, knowledge, and coordination and convening 
services.
 
The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico,
1
which was discussed by the 
Board in April 2008, built on the Mexican auth
orities’ desire to maintain a strong financial and 
knowledge-based relationship with the Bank, focusing on flexibility and innovation in 
responding to the Partner’s development challenges and borrowing needs with higher levels of 
flows dependent upon evolving market conditions. The aim of the CPS is to provide a flexible 
framework for World Bank Group support to Mexico. The strategy is based on a streamlined 
approach to lending that is in line with the priorities set in the PND 2007-2012.
 
1
Report No. 42846-MX, March 4, 2008. 
Page  4
Developing Infrastructure and Assuring Energy Security and Environmental 
Sustainability
 have become a major part of the CPS program for both reactivating the economy 
and putting it on an environmentally sustainable trajectory.  The GoM has accelerated its reform 
program during the crisis and climate change adaptation is now a major policy objective of 
Mexico.  Beyond lending, the broad range of Bank assistance in this area, including grants, 
knowledge services and convening activities, is being coordinated through Technical Assistance 
Programs with the Environment, Transport, Energy and Water sectors.  
The proposed operation
,
which addresses Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water 
Sector
,
is consistent with national priorities
.
Mexico faces critical and urgent water problems.  
The unsustainable use of water resources contributes to widening the gap between the wealthy 
and the poor.  Sustainable and integrated water resource management, based on principles of 
efficiency and conservation, and implemented by a more efficient provision of water services, 
increased levels of wastewater treatment and reuse, and an improved institutional framework, is 
expected to have positive effects on poverty and inequality by increasing the affordability and 
accessib
ility of services.  It will also have a positive impact on the country’s competitiveness and 
infrastructure, particularly in the water sector.  These objectives are all aligned with the 
government’s 2007- 2012 PND, and they fit within the framework outlined in the CPS FY08-
FY13 for Mexico.  
The World Bank will support CONAGUA in positioning itself vis-
à-vis climate change and 
placing this issue at the top of its corporate agenda
.
This support will be provided thorough 
streamlined International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) financial support, 
whereby the design and implementation of the proposed operation will be accompanied by an 
enhanced package of knowledge and policy coordination services set forth in a Technical 
Assistance Program.  Resources are expected to be available from the Water Partnership 
Program and the Spanish Trust Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean (SFLAC) for technical 
assistance and advisory services to support program advancement.   
 
4. Financing 
 
Source:
($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 
IBRD 
0
450 
Total 450 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed program supports the GOM’s national strategies and plans in water sector 
and climate change adaptation
.
Thus, implementation
,
monitoring and evaluation align 
with the GOM’s own strategy, objectives and processes
.
The PND 2007-2012 establishes 
objectives and strategies (to be fulfilled by the end of the current Administration in 2012), which 
are implemented by means of a set of Sectoral Programs 2007-2012.  The water sector 
commitments of the PND are thus in line with the Environmental and Natural Resources Sectoral 
Program (
Programa de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
), implemented by SEMARNAT; 
the National Water Program (Programa Nacional Hídrico, PNH) implemented by CONAGUA; 
Page  5
and the PECC implemented by the Inter-
Ministerial Commission on Climate Change (Comité 
Intersectorial de Cambio Climático, CICC). 
 
In an effort to synthesize large amounts of information, this operation proposes a 
streamlined monitoring and evaluation framework
,
which will help the GoM and the Bank 
assess progress towards the successful implementation of the operation within the 
implementation timeframe
,
which extends to the end of the current Administration
.
The 
evaluation of the program will be facilitated by the overlap with the end of the Administration 
period, as progress will be assessed at that point to take stock of the results achieved by the 
current government. CONAGUA will be responsible for the implementation of the proposed 
components and for reporting progress.  SEMARNAT will provide additional information 
relating to implementation of the PECC. 
 
The Bank will monitor actions taken to achieve the expected outcomes and review progress 
in the implementation of the DPL, as well as subsequent government actions
.
In compliance 
with the Planning Law (
Ley de Planeación
,
Art. 6) the federal government has to produce 
progress reports on the implementation of the National Development Plan to inform the 
Congress.
2
The PND progress report provides information on the actions undertaken for the 
completion of the Plan’s objectives and strategies within the five basic policy pillars. Thus, it 
will be the crucial instrument used by this DPL to monitor progress in all policy areas. 
 
The Bank will continue to help CONAGUA and SEMARNAT bring forward the 
adaptation agenda in the water sector
 by means of Technical Assistance Program.  During the 
preparation of this DPL, the Bank has preliminarily agreed with CONAGUA on the scope and 
contents of this Technical Assistance Program, which would include: a) Support CONAGUA’s 
Efforts Towards the Creation of a Long-Term Planning Vision for the Sector – Vision 2030; b) 
Strengthening of the Financial System in the Water Sector; c) Water Resources Management and 
Adaptation to Climate Change at the Basin Level; d) Support the National Program for the 
Modernization of the Meteorological Service; e) Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change 
in the Water Sector (support in view of the Conference of the Parties - COP 16 - events). 
 
Implementation of the water sector programs and adaptation policies embedded in the 
PECC will require a strong inter-institutional coordination capacity
.
In response to this 
anticipated need, the Bank will support the government of Mexico to implement its water sector 
programs through lending instruments and technical assistance.  A core element of the assistance 
is helping to build the capacity of the institutions involved and to strengthen the linkages of those 
institutions in their policy-setting, investment review and financing capacities.  A parallel 
investment and technical assistance project is concurrently being prepared by the Bank with 
CONAGUA that will help strengthen its institutional capacity (Efficiency Improvement Program 
for the Water and Sanitation Sector – 
Programa de Mejoramiento de Eficiencias
,
PROME). 
 
2
These reports have to be delivered annually in the month of March while the current Administration is in office. 
The government agencies in charge of the implementation of the sectoral progams provide the SHCP with inputs for 
the PND progress report. Afterwards, the document is sent to the
 President’s Office for his signature. The 
information provided by the government agencies is based on 2007-2012 indicators, as stated in the sectoral 
programs.  The sectoral programs link their own objectives and strategies with those of the PND.  
Page  6
6.  Benefits and Risks 
The DPL will support government priorities established in the climate change adaptation 
and water sector agenda
.
Mexico has emerged as a global climate change leader and is moving 
quickly to prepare mitigation and adaptation policies to tackle the most pressing issues that affect 
the country’s main economic sectors. Mexico’s role as a leader will be in the spotlight during the 
Conference of the Parties 16 (COP 16), to be held in Mexico at the end of 2010.  The proposed 
operation represents a further step in the country’s engagement in climate change and its impact 
on the hydrological cycle, a process that is expected to intensify over the course of this century.  
Through this operation, the World Bank Group will support Mexico, and particularly the 
National Water Commission (
Comisión Nacional del Agua
,
CONAGUA) and the Ministry of the 
Environment and Natural Resources (
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, 
SEMARNAT), to further its position as a prominent international player in the climate change 
dialogue. 
 
The 
operation’s main risks arise from the economic and fiscal situation, the political and 
administrative context and the potential environmental / social risk
.
Overall, however such 
risks are deemed to be of low impact and, as such, the proposed loan is subject to low risk. 
Below is a matrix identifying the main risks assessed for the operation and the related mitigation 
measures.  
 
Persistence of the economic downturn in Mexico’s major markets, particularly the United States, 
and/or low commodity prices could lead to fiscal pressures that might undercut the Borrower’s 
capacity to implement key aspects of the operation, notably its capacity to fund water sector and 
watershed management programs through which climate change adaptation is to be 
mainstreamed. Mitigating factors include revenue stabilization funds, leveraged by a policy of oil 
price hedges, which have compensated part of the revenue shortfall and allowed Mexico to 
implement its countercyclical policy response in 2009.  Oil price hedges have been contracted 
and limits on revenue stabilization funds were lifted for 2010 thereby allowing for the 
replenishment of the funds and the revenue smoothing mechanisms to operate and mitigate 
future sharp drop in oil revenue.  Throughout the crisis Mexico maintained access to domestic, 
international and multilateral debt markets.  Policy measures to mitigate the impact of a waning 
global risk appetite include a new one-year arrangement for Mexico under the Flexible Credit 
Line (FCL) of the IMF (approved in March 2010) as well as a rules based intervention 
mechanism to increase the level of international reserves.   
 
Presidential elections leading to a change in administration in 2012 could weaken commitment 
to Mexico’s climate change agenda and, specifically, to actions in the water sector to adapt to 
climate change.   Stakeholder opposition to the program could emerge as its effects become 
clearer with implementation. SEMARNAT, CONAGUA, and CONAFOR may prove to lack 
the capacity to advance the program.  This risk is addressed by the fact that Mexico has 
transmitted its Fourth Communication to the UNFCCC (the first non-Annex 1 country to do 
so), which consolidates its reputation as a global leader on climate change adaptation and is 
likely to wish to maintain its leadership position, rather than be seen as retreating.  In addition, 
successive administrations have declared water a “strategic matter of national security,” a view 
which further deterioration in water supply and quality would only reinforce. Mexico’s 
Page  7
commitment to climate change adaptation, both broadly and in the water sector, is embedded in 
the 2004 Water Law, which adopted the principles of IWRM, and in a range of national plans 
and established water sector and watershed management programs.  Stakeholder support is 
likely to be maintained through participatory and consultative processes and arrangements 
mandated by national law, such as the requirement for a 60-day public comment period on 
proposed regulations and the River Basin Councils and other multi-stakeholder councils.  The 
Bank will support implementing capacity through a Technical Assistance Program 
arrangements and through its on-going engagement with the government on water 
sector/climate change matters. 
 
Program implementation could produce unexpected adverse social and environmental effects. 
The policies supported by the proposed operation are expected to have significant positive social 
and environmental effects, including benefits to the poor, agricultural producers, water users in 
general, and other stakeholders. For any potential negative environmental effect that could 
eventually derive from: i) risks associated to lower institutional capacity at de-concentrated level
.
ii) possibility of increasing over-exploitation in cases of over-concessions of water; and iii) 
incentives under programs not linked to proper environmental standards; mitigation measures 
have been identified.. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Aspects 
 
Overall
,
the Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL is expected to have a 
significant positive impact on the country’s poor and vulnerable communities
.
During 
preparation, the Bank reviewed recent poverty and social impact studies in the water sector in 
Mexico.  Those studies helped to identify the expected impacts that the policies supported by this 
DPL could have on different social groups.
3
Further work on a full Poverty and Social Impact 
Analysis (PSIA) of selected policies will be carried out by Bank staff with government 
counterparts during program implementation.  
 
The policies and reforms supported by this operation encompass adaptation measures 
aimed at improving water availability and water quality whose social impacts vary across 
regions
.
Broadly speaking, poor farmers located in the semi-arid and arid central and northern 
parts of the country will benefit more from measures aimed at improving water availability 
through watershed management, aquifer recharge, and water efficiency and savings.  Measures 
aimed at improving water quality are likely to produce larger benefits for (a) poor people in the 
southern states, where the largest infrastructure gaps remain; (b)  persons living in slums that 
lack piped water or sanitation; and (c) persons living in areas at risk of extreme weather events, 
such as coastal areas, unstable slopes, and flood plains. 
 
Environmental Aspects 
3
Bank studies included the “PSIA for Groundwater Over-exploitation in Mexico” (2009) and the “Climate Change 
with a Human Face in Mexico” (2010). Non-bank studies included SEMARNAT (2009): The Social Impacts of 
Climate Change.
 
Page  8
The program is likely to have significant positive effects on the environment and natural 
resources
.
The project will play an important role in reducing the negative environmental 
effects of climate change to contribute to the sustainability of water resources management in 
Mexico.  The policy actions that comprise the DPL are expected to have positive impacts, 
particularly as they relate to the country
’s environment, natural resources and habitats, by both 
reducing the current impact of water extraction for human activities and setting the stage for 
better adaptation to future climate change.  The reforms adopted in the water programs and 
norms will contribute to increasing water use efficiency, promoting water conservation and 
reducing water pollution, with clear positive environmental impacts. 
 
The implementation of the IWRM approach supported by this DPL will foster the 
integration of environmental and social considerations in the planning and design of water 
projects and activities
.
The institutional strengthening activities will enable CONAGUA to 
achieve the sustainability and adaptation goals established in the PECC, which includes a 
detailed plan for addressing water issues related to climate change.  The program’s main 
objectives are to reduce Mexico’s vulnerability to climate change by retrofitting water 
infrastructure and providing incentives for making it adaptation-friendly, strengthening the 
capacity of strategic institutions to address adaptation, and improving the quality of services and 
research and technology. 
 
The provisions of OP 8.60 on Development Policy Lending apply to the Adaptation to 
Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL
.
The program plays an important role in helping to 
mainstream environmental considerations in a key sector (water) as well as in Mexico’s overall 
approach to development. Since the justification for the operation itself is to provide support to 
the government in its efforts to mainstream climate change and environmental considerations 
into the water sector, the operation's design is proactive with respect to internalizing 
environmental concerns.  This occurs at specific levels.  At the sectoral level, policy reforms in 
the water sector support the integration of environmental concerns by helping to increase 
efficient water use and reduce waste, contributing to the sustainable management of natural 
resources. Other positive impacts on the environment are expected to derive from improved 
environmental management at the national and local (basin, watersheds) level, on which the 
program places particular emphasis by promoting improved transparency and community 
participation. 
 
OECD has produced two Environmental Assessments for Mexico (1997, 2003). The major 
shortcomings identified in the Legal/Institutional Framework relate to two aspects: Reporting 
and Access to Information. It has been common practice in previous projects to request that the 
executing agency (CONAGUA) provides a work-program to SEMANARNAT in order to cross 
check that reporting functions are properly executed. With regards to Public 
Information/Consultation, CONAGUA has already invited the civil society to public meetings in 
order to present its projects and operations (starting with the Integrated Irrigation Modernization 
Project, PMIR, in 2005) and their Environment and Social Frameworks. This led, among other 
things, to an ongoing collaboration of CONAGUA with World Wildlife Fund in the 
preparation/consultation of the Norm for Ecological Flows.  
 
Page  9
The implementing agencies (SEMARNAT and CONAGUA) have made real strides on 
indicators of environmental compliance and enforcement, including practical applications, 
revisions and improvements and currently are deemed to have a good framework in place.
 
Over time CONAGUA has developed specific guidelines and operational manuals to guarantee 
compliance with federal environmental legislation in Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA)
 
4
.
The World Bank has produced Environmental Capacity Assessments during the preparation of 
previous operations in Mexico (such as for the Natural Disaster Fund project and for PMIR) and 
results have highlighted that CONAGUA has institutional arrangements with capacity for 
screening and supervision of potential environmental impacts and mitigation measures. The team 
recommends that environmental standards and procedures are followed for any activity and / or 
incentive supported by the DPL. Additionally, it will be particularly important to ensure that 
institutional capacity is strengthened at the de-concentrated level, especially as more monitoring 
and executing functions are passed on to the river basin organizations.  
8. Contact point 
 
Contact:  
Gustavo Saltiel 
Title:    
Sector Leader 
Tel:  
 
5782+4239 / 52-55-5480-4239 
Fax:  
 
5782+4222/ 52-55-5480-4222 
Email:   
gsaltiel@worldbank.org 
Location:  
Mexico City, Mexico (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
4
CONAGUA (2002) Manual de Procedimientos en Materia de Impacto Ambiental 
Page  10
