                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No: 53637-MX




    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                 PROGRAM DOCUMENT


                                     FOR A PROPOSED


   FRAMEWORK FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE WATER
              SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$450 MILLION


                                              TO


                            THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES



                                         May 6, 2010



Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective May 6, 2010)


                 Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                     MX$1.00 = US$0.0766777
                         US$1 = MX$13.0416

                          FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 ­ December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA       Analytical and Advisory Activities
ACU       Asociaciones de Usuarios (User Associations)
AFD       French Development Agency
ANUR      Asociación Nacional de Usuarios de Riego (National Association of
          Irrigation Users)
APAZU     Programa de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado en Zonas Urbanas
          (Drinking Water and Sewerage in Urban Areas Program)
BANSEFI   Banco de Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financiero s (National Bank of
          Savings and Financial Services)
RBC       River Basin Council (Consejos de cuenca)
RBO       River Basin Organizations (Organismos de cuenca)
C4        Consultative Council on Climate Change
CBD       Convention on Biological Diversity
CCDPL     Climate Change Development Policy Loan
CEAs      Comisiones Estatales de Agua (State Water Commissions)
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CICC      Comisión Intersecretarial de Cambio Climático (Inter-Ministerial
          Commission on Climate Change)
CONACyT   Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (National Council for
          Science and Technology)
CONEVAL   Consejo Nacional de Evaluación de la Política de Desarrollo Social
          (National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy)
CONAGUA   Comisión Nacional del Agua (National Water Commission)
COTAS     Comités Técnicos de Aguas Subterraneas (Aquifer Technical
          Committee)
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment
COP 16    Conference of the Parties 16
CTF       Clean Technology Fund
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
ENACC     Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático (National Climate Change
          Strategy)
ENAPCi    Estrategia Nacional para la Participación Ciudadana en el Sector
          Ambiental (National Strategy for Citizen Participation in the
          Environmental Sector)
ENVDPL    Programmatic Environmental Development Policy Loan
ENVSAL    Programmatic Environmental Structural Adjustment Loan
ERPAs     Emission Reductions Percentage Agreements
ESW       Economic Sector Work
FCL       Flexible Credit Line (IMF)
FONADIN   Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura (National Infrastructure Fund)
FY        Fiscal Year
GCM       General Circulation Model
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GHG       Greenhouse Gases
GOM       Government of Mexico
ha        hectares
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IFI       International Financial Institutions
IMTA      Instituto Mexicano de Tecnología de Agua (Mexican Institute for Water
INE       Technology)
          Instituto Nacional de Ecología (National Ecology Institute)
IPCC      Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IWRM      Integrated Water Resource Management
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NC        National Communication (to the UNFCCC)
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
OO        Organismos Operadores de Agua (Water Utilities)
O&M       Operation & Maintenance
PATME     Programa de Asistencia Técnica para el Mejoramiento de la Eficiencia
PECC      Programa Especial de Cambio Climático (Special Program for Climate
          Change)
PEF       Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación (Federal Expenditure
          Budget)
PER       Public Expenditures Review
PES       Payment for Environmental Services
PFM       Public Financial Management
PMIR      Integrated Irrigation Modernization Program
PMTUR     Program for Modernization and Technology Upgrade of Irrigation
          Units
PND       Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Plan)
PNH       Programa Nacional Hidrico (National Water Program)
PNI       Programa Nacional de Infraestructura (National Infrastructure Plan)
PRODEP    Programa de Desarrollo Parcelario ( Development Program for Land
          Plots)
PROTRAM   Programa de Apoyo Federal al Transporte Masivo (Federal Mass
          Transit Support Program)
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
R&D        Research and Development
REDD       UN Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from
           Deforestation and Forest Degradation
SAGARPA    Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y
           Alimentación (Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development,
           Fisheries and Food)
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SEDESOL    Secretaría de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
SEMARNAT   Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (Ministry of
           Environment and Natural Resources)
SFA        Sistema Financiero de Agua (Financial System of Water)
SFLAC      Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean
SFP        Secretaría de la Función Pública (Ministry of Public Administration)
SHCP       Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (Ministry of Finance and
           Public Credit)
SINAPROC   Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil (National Civil Protection
           System)
SPRMPA     Programa Especial para la Restauración de la Microcuencas en Zonas
           Prioritarias (Special Program for the Restoration of Microwatersheds
           in Priority Areas)
SRLDRs     Sociedades de Responsabilidad Limitada de los Distritos de Riego
SSA        Secretaría de Salud (Ministry of Health)
SWAP       Sector Wide Approach
TAP        Technical Assistance Program (Programa de Asistencia Técnica -
           PAT)
TESOFE     Tesorería de la Federación (Treasury)
UNAM       Universidad National Autónoma de México (National Autonomous
           University of Mexico)
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNECLAC    United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the
           Caribbean
UNCCD      United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification
UNFCCC     United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
UREDALES   Unidades de riego para el desarrollo rural (Rural Development
           Irrigation Units)
UTTP       Urban Transport Transformation Program
WTFP       Wastewater Treatment Funding Program
WWF        World Wildlife Fund
WWTP       Waste Water Treatment Plant

                  Vice President:     Pamela Cox
               Country Director:      Gloria M. Grandolini
                 Sector Director:     Laura Tuck
                Sector Manager:       Guang Zhe Chen
              Task Team Leader:       Gustavo Saltiel
           Co-Task Team Leader:       Alessandra Campanaro
                                                      MEXICO

 FRAMEWORK FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE WATER
            SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ................................................................................. i 
I.    INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................... 1 
II.  COUNTRY CONTEXT ................................................................................................. 3 
      MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY .......................... 3 
III.  THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES ........ 7 
      WATER SECTOR PROGRAM ...................................................................................... 7 
      ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE WATER SECTOR ..................... 11 
      PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS ....................................................................................... 15 
IV.  BANK'S SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM ................................ 17 
      SUMMARY UPDATE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CPS ....................... 17 
      LINK TO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY.................................................. 18 
      THE VALUE ADDED PROVIDED BY THE BANK ................................................. 19 
      COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ................................ 20 
      RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS ................................................ 21 
      ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS ............................................................................ 26 
      LESSONS LEARNED................................................................................................... 29 
V.  THE PROPOSED FRAMEWORK FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE
    IN THE WATER SECTOR DPL................................................................................ 33 
      OPERATION DESCRIPTION ...................................................................................... 33 
      KEY POLICY AREAS .................................................................................................. 34 
VI.  OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION......................................................................... 39 
      POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ............................................................................ 39 
      ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ................................................................................... 45 
      IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION ................................... 47 
      FIDUCIARY ASPECTS ................................................................................................ 48 
      DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ........................................................................... 49 
      RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION ............................................................................... 50 
                                                             ANNEXES

ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ........................................................... 53 
ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX ............................................................................................... 57 
ANNEX 3: FUND RELATIONS NOTE ................................................................................. 59 
ANNEX 4: MACROECONOMIC, FISCAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR CONTEXT ...... 65 
ANNEX 5: PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS AND PARTICIPATION FRAMEWORK ........... 71 
ANNEX 6: POLICY INSTRUMENTS FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN
THE WATER SECTOR ........................................................................................................... 74 
ANNEX 7: WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONS..................................................................... 86 
ANNEX 8: FEATURES AND RELEVANCE OF KEY FEDERAL PROGRAMS ............... 90 
ANNEX 9: PROGRAM FOR WATER SUSTAINABILITY IN THE MEXICO VALLEY .. 97 
ANNEX 10: WATER BANKS............................................................................................... 103 
ANNEX 11: TAP BETWEEN CONAGUA AND THE BANK (DRAFT) ........................... 106 
ANNEX 12: REFERENCES .................................................................................................. 112 
ANNEX 13: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ............................................................................. 118 

                                                               TABLES

TABLE 1: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR THE BASE CASE SCENARIO ....... 6 
TABLE 2: RISKS TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROGRAMS SUPPORTED BY
THE DPL .................................................................................................................................. 51 


                                                              FIGURES

FIGURE 1: INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR INTEGRATED WATER
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (IWRM) IN MEXICO........................................................... 9 
FIGURE 2: ONGOING CLIMATE CHANGE AND WATER SECTOR ACTIVITIES
SUPPORTED BY THE BANK IN MEXICO .......................................................................... 22 
FIGURE 3: THE INTEGRATED WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT COMB ........... 28 
FIGURE 4: AQUIFER OVEREXPLOITATION AND VERY HIGH TO VERY LOW
SOCIAL CONFLICTS, 1990-2005 .......................................................................................... 40 
FIGURE 5: EXTREME POVERTY AND SOIL DEGRADATION IN RURAL AND
URBAN MUNICIPALITIES.................................................................................................... 42 

                                                                BOXES

BOX 1: THE PES MECHANISM AND THE PES PROGRAM IN MEXICO ....................... 12 
BOX 2: MEXICO'S FOUR NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS TO THE UNFCCC .......... 14 
BOX 3: ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE CHANGE MOU .......................................... 20 
BOX 4: DPL GOOD PRACTICES AND THE ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN
THE WATER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN ................................................. 32 
BOX 5: OVERVIEW OF PROPOSED OPERATION'S COMPONENTS AND PRIOR
ACTIONS ................................................................................................................................. 34 
The Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector Development Policy Loan was
prepared by an IBRD team consisting of Gustavo Saltiel (Task Team Leader, LCSSD),
Alessandra Campanaro (co-Task Team Leader, LCSUW), Diego Juan Rodriguez
(ETWWA), Todd Crawford (Consultant, LCSSD), Caroline Van den Berg (ETWWA),
Javier Zuleta (LCSEN), Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet (LCSSO), Ricardo Hernandez-
Murillo (LCSEN), Gisela Campillo (LCC1A), Yerania Sanchez Ramos (LCSSD),
Edith Cortes Angeles (LCSPE), Ann Jeanette Glauber (LCSEN), Jozef Draaisma
(LCSPE), Xiomara Morel (LCSFM), Daniel Nolasco (Consultant, LCSSD), Luis
Poggi (Consultant, LCSSD), Karina Kashiwamoto (LCC1C), David Lopez Viggiano
(LCC1C), Mariana Montiel (LEGLA), Ana F. Daza (LCSUW). This operation was
undertaken under the general guidance of Gloria Grandolini (Country Director,
LCClC), Laura Tuck (Sector Director, LCSSD) and Guang Zhe Chen (Sector
Manager, LCSUW). Peer reviewers were Manuel Mariño (ECSS6), Alexander
Bakalian (MNSWA), Michael Jacobsen (ETWWA), Marianne Fay (SDNVP), and
Erick C. M. Fernandes (LCSAR).
                      LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY


                            The United Mexican States
                   Framework for Adaptation to Climate Change
                   in the Water Sector Development Policy Loan


Borrower               The United Mexican States

Implementing           Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and National
Agency                 Water Commission

Financing Data         US$450 Million

Operation Type         Single Tranche Development Policy Loan

                       The proposed operation comprises two policy areas that are
                       detailed below. They are: (a) Strengthening the Institutional
Main Policy
                       Framework and Monitoring Capacity in Integrated Water
Areas
                       Resources Management; and (b) Mainstreaming Adaptation
                       to Climate Change in Water Programs.

                       CONAGUA has developed 18 plans for aquifers
                       management; River Basin Councils are overseeing the
                       execution of water resources management plans; water
Key Outcome
                       availability information for 653 aquifers has been published;
Indicators
                       productivity of irrigation districts is increasing2.8 percent
                       annually to reach 1.66 kg per m³; volume of treated
                       wastewater has reached 60 percent.

                      The objective of the proposed operation is to support the
                      government's efforts aimed at strengthening the institutional
                      framework and monitoring capacity in integrated water
                      resources management as well as mainstreaming adaptation to
Program
                      climate change in water programs. The proposed DPL supports
Development
                      the government's policy commitment to adaptation to climate
Objective(s) and
                      change in the water sector, including the allocation of
Contribution to
                      institutional and financial resources and strengthening of
CPS
                      monitoring and evaluation capacity.

                      Reduced water availability and poor water quality are two of
                      the main factors affecting future growth and development in
                      Mexico. Key to addressing these development challenges is the


                                          i
                 enactment of measures to adapt to climate change whose aim is
                 ensuring proper water resources management through
                 appropriate regulations, norms, institutional reforms, and
                 financial mechanisms. The operation will support the GOM's
                 efforts to foster adaptation to climate change in the water
                 sector, contributing to long-term sustainable growth and
                 protecting the most vulnerable populations.
                 A key principle established in the CPS is that the Bank's
                 program should be closely aligned with the government's own
                 development strategy. The proposed operation fits within the
                 GOM's top priorities as reflected in the National Development
                 Plan as well as with the CPS pillars, improving
                 Competitiveness and Developing Infrastructure, and Assuring
                 Environmental Sustainability. In parallel, the Bank and the
                 GOM are expected to reach an agreement on a complementary
                 set of advisory services to support the implementation of this
                 DPL, in line with the streamlined approach set in the CPS.

                 A series of financial, economic, institutional, environmental
                 and social risks are considered in the risk matrix as well as the
                 on-going and proposed actions to mitigate those risks. Among
                 those, none seems to be of high impact to the success of the
                 operation. The persistence of the economic downturn is a low
                 risk to the water sector as so far the GOM has responded by
                 adopting a counter-cyclical fiscal stance, therefore leaving
                 unaffected the water sector. The end of the administration and
                 the related political change is not expected to bring about a
Risks and Risk
                 high risk as Mexico's commitment to the water sector has
Mitigation
                 spanned political administrations, and the Bank support in this
                 area has a long history of dialogue, technical and financial
                 assistance that would allow for continued stakeholder
                 participation in program implementation. Finally, program
                 implementation is expected to bring about positive social and
                 environmental effects. A series of monitoring procedures
                 already in place will ensure that any unexpected adverse social
                 or environmental consequences will be identified early on so
                 that they can be remediated.

Operation ID      P120134




                                    ii
                                        MEXICO
FRAMEWORK FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE WATER
           SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                I.   INTRODUCTION

1.    The Government of Mexico (GOM) has requested an Adaptation to Climate
Change in the Water Sector Development Policy Loan (DPL) in the amount of
US$450 million to be presented to the Board for its approval by the end of Fiscal
Year 2010. The request underlines the GOM's interest in a continued, strong
engagement with the Bank as discussed in the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) FY08-
10 (World Bank 2008) and the recent CPS- progress report (World Bank February 2010).

2.      The DPL will support government priorities established in the climate
change adaptation and water sector agenda. Mexico has emerged as a global climate
change leader and is moving quickly to prepare mitigation and adaptation policies to
tackle the most pressing issues that affect the country's main economic sectors. Mexico's
role as a leader will be in the spotlight during the Conference of the Parties 16 (COP 16),
to be held in Mexico at the end of 2010. The proposed operation represents a further step
in the country's engagement in climate change and its impact on the hydrological cycle, a
process that is expected to intensify over the course of this century. Through this
operation, the World Bank Group will support Mexico, and particularly the National
Water Commission (Comisión Nacional del Agua, CONAGUA) and the Ministry of the
Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales, SEMARNAT), to further its position as a prominent international player in the
climate change dialogue.

3.      Mexico faces an acute water crisis resulting from accelerated population
growth and sub-optimal water resources management (including inefficiency,
pollution, and overexploitation). Severe regional disparities with regards to water
availability persist (Olson and Saltiel 2006) despite steady improvements in access to
water over the past few years that reflect the government's efforts to manage water
resources in a more sustainable and equitable manner. Overexploitation is an especially
significant problem in groundwater resources, and water quality is deteriorating due to
the lack of adequate wastewater treatment (Carabias and Landa 2006). Cities like León,
Hermosillo, and Saltillo face the risk of severe water shortages in the very near future. In
addition, Mexico City's water utility has rationed the supply of water from the Cutzamala
system, which provides a fifth of the city's water for several months. Cutbacks have
recently doubled, reaching 30 percent of supply.

4.     Inaction in this sector will yield economic and social costs that will be further
exacerbated by the impacts of climate change. The importance of water to sustainable
development in the country is evident, and successive administrations have declared
water to be a "strategic matter of national security." There is ample evidence of the costs
associated with water problems in Mexico. In Mexico City alone, annual costs resulting

                                             1
from diarrheal diseases caused by water pollution were estimated at US$3.6 billion in the
mid-1990s (OECD 2006). In addition, the government has to invest billions of dollars in
alternative sources of water (through the Cutzamala system) because the city's aquifer is
overexploited. For the country as a whole, the costs of water pollution were estimated to
be around US$6 billion annually, and average water losses are around 44 percent (Olson
and Saltiel 2006). The implicit electricity subsidy provided to Mexican farmers for
pumping groundwater has been estimated to be about US$700 million per year (Guevara-
Sangines 2006). Weather-related disasters cost Mexico more than US$10 billion between
1980 and 2005. Over 80 percent of those economic losses occurred in the agricultural
sector, increasing the vulnerability of rural households, affecting income generation and
resulting in social impacts (Saldaña-Zorrilla 2007). Climate change will increase the
frequency and intensity of weather-related extreme events, which have a disproportionate
impact on the most vulnerable. There is a pressing need to incorporate climate change
impacts in water resources management policy and planning exercises to reverse the
negative trends in the sector.

5.     Reduced water availability and poor water quality are two of the main
factors affecting economic growth and development in Mexico. This operation
supports the strengthening of the institutional, normative, regulatory and financial
frameworks as a means to foster adaptation to climate change in the water sector.
Measures and tools whose aim is to ensure water security through proper regulations,
norms, institutional reforms and financial mechanisms are key to addressing this core
development challenge and ensuring long-term sustainable growth in Mexico.

6.      The proposed DPL is conceived as a single tranche operation in the context
of a long-standing dialogue. It will highlight Mexico's achievements in the water sector
and in climate change as well as support its policy programs in these areas. The prior
actions of the DPL focus on the following two components:

              i.   Strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in
                   Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM); and
             ii.   Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs.

7.       The proposed operation is part of the streamlined lending approach outlined
in the Mexico 2008 CPS that focuses on supporting the GOM's programs and
policies contained in the National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo,
PND). The Bank's lending program to Mexico has expanded in both volume and scope
since the onset of the global crisis.1 The CPS has included a combination of financial
services and knowledge instruments to support Mexico's water sector and climate change
program. In particular, the Bank is working closely with SEMARNAT on Mexico's
Climate Change program, including an important pilot for Adaptation to Climate Change
in the Gulf of Mexico, preparation of Subnational Climate Change Strategies, and the
Institutional Development of SEMARNAT, areas that will inform and benefit from this
Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL.


1
    A CPS Progress Note was provided to the Board on March 25, 2010.

                                                    2
                                II.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

8.      The global economic crisis has hit Mexico hard. Despite a strong track record
of sound macroeconomic management and stable economic conditions over the past
several years,2 Mexico stands out as one of the most affected countries in the region.
Trade declined by about 23 percent in 2009, hit by the recession in the United States,
which is Mexico's primary trading partner and accounts for 80 percent of Mexican
exports. Remittances have fallen substantially (by 16 percent in dollar terms), and direct
foreign investment declined by more than 50 percent in 2009. Private consumption
contracted by about 6 percent and the economy lost almost half a million private formal
sector jobs during the year.

9.      In response, the government implemented counter-cyclical economic policies.
Fiscal stimulus policies included additional public investment in infrastructure, temporary
employment programs, control of administrated prices in the energy sector, and an
expansion of development bank credit. The independent Bank of Mexico eased monetary
policy between January and July of 2009 in order to support efforts to lessen the
downturn in economic activity. The government also sought support from both national
and international development finance institutions to ensure adequate funding for priority
programs and continued flow of credit to the private sector. Several actions have been
taken to maintain orderly conditions in foreign exchange and domestic financial markets
in view of the unprecedented global financial shocks. The International Monetary Fund
(IMF) approved the first Flexible Credit Line (FCL) for Mexico in April, 2009. This loan
provides access to approximately US$47 billion as a backstop to Mexico's international
reserves. In March 2010, the IMF renewed the FCL for one year (see Annex 3).

MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

10.    The Mexican economy is starting to recover from a deep contraction of
economic activity following the global economic and financial crisis. As a relatively
open economy, Mexico was hard hit by the collapse of international trade during the last
quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. As a result, annual economic growth in
2008 was down to 1.3 percent and GDP fell by 6.5 percent in 2009.

11.     The Mexican government's fiscal policy during the past decade has been very
prudent. It has focused on keeping the public sector deficit under control and reducing
the public sector debt-to-GDP ratio within an environment of enhanced price stability.
This contributed to a healthy domestic credit expansion and growth of domestic demand.
Prior to the onset of the economic crisis, Mexico experienced moderate growth within a
framework of macroeconomic stability. GDP growth averaged 3.8 percent annually
between 2004 and 2007.



2
  GDP growth averaged 3.8 percent during 2004-2007 and the currency was stable. In addition, inflation
reached only 3.8 percent in 2007, external indebtedness as a share of GDP was low, public debt ratios were
declining and the country's sovereign credit rating was two notches above the lowest investment grade.

                                                    3
12.    The economic contraction led to a sharp decline in tax revenues that was
partially offset by non-recurrent revenue in 2009. Non-oil tax revenues dropped by
11.5 percent in real terms in 2009 while value added tax revenues fell by 15 percent. The
government offset lower oil and non-oil revenues with revenue from a successful oil
price hedge, an extraordinary transfer of profits from the Central Bank, and by drawing
resources from its revenue stabilization funds. These non-recurrent revenues amounted
to 2.8 percent of GDP and have allowed the government to limit its borrowing
requirements to a modest 3.2 percent of GDP.

13.     Public revenue enhancing measures and a temporary budget deficit are part
of the 2010 public sector budget. Mexico's fiscal responsibility law requires a balanced
budget3 and allows for a budget deficit only under "exceptional circumstances" and with
the requirement that the government adopt a medium-term fiscal framework to return to a
balanced budget. Lower public sector tax revenues due to the sharp decline and current
slack in economic activity are further aggravated by a rapidly falling volume of oil
production. This is leading to a more structural challenge to replace diminishing oil
revenues with more permanent sources of income. The government has responded by
increasing income, value added and excise taxes largely through increased tax rates. At
the same time, it has made allowances for an additional budget deficit of 0.7 percent of
GDP in 2010, which is expected to be reduced to 0.4 percent by 2011 and should return
to a balanced budget by 2012.

14.     Monetary policy has been left unchanged after the substantial easing in 2009.
The severity of the economic downturn led the authorities to reduce their target for the
overnight interbank interest rate by an accumulated 375 basis points between January and
July of 2009, from 8.25 to 4.50 percent. The economic recession had reduced inflation to
3.6 percent by the end of 2009. The Central Bank is projecting a temporary, one-time
increase in consumer price inflation in 2010, to around 5 percent by year-end, due to tax
and public sector price increases included in the 2010 budget. The monetary authorities
have left the policy intervention rate unchanged in view of the temporary nature of the
price increases as well as the fact that current economic activity remains below potential
output. Central Bank projections currently place inflation at 3 percent by the end of
2011.

15.    The monetary authorities have expressed their intention to increase the level
of international reserves to mitigate the impact of financial shocks. The global
financial crisis led to a sell-off of emerging market assets in the last quarter of 2008 and
early 2009. The government undertook several actions in order to maintain liquidity,
including foreign exchange interventions, the provision of loans and loan guarantees by
government development banks, and the repurchase and reduced issue of long-term



3
  A modification to the law adopted by Congress in 2008 includes all investments by the public sector oil
company in the budget but excludes these investments from the budget balance requirement. Those
investments are budgeted at an amount of 2.0 percent in 2010. As a result, the overall budget deficit for
2010 is estimated at 2.7 percent of GDP (2.0 percent oil sector investment and an additional 0.7 percent
temporary deficit spending).

                                                   4
government bonds. Interventions on the foreign exchange market between October 2008
and December 2009 implied the sale of almost US$35 billion in international reserves.

16.     Early in 2009, Mexico entered into a US$30 billion currency swap with the
US Federal Reserve and a US$47 billion Flexible Credit Line (FCL) with the IMF to
reassure markets the country has access to sufficient foreign exchange liquidity if
needed. The FCL has recently been extended for the period of one year (Annex 3).
International reserves, which stood at US$91 billion at end of 2009 compared to US$85
billion in September 2008, have been replenished. In addition, the authorities announced
measures to increase the level of international reserves in 2010 and 2011 through a rules-
based intervention system. While foreign exchange transactions of the federal
government and the state-owned oil company (PEMEX) will continue to be channeled
through the Central Bank, a mechanism of monthly auctions of put options was
reintroduced in February 2010. This will allow the Central Bank to purchase foreign
exchange from the markets.

17.     Economic activity in Mexico is rebounding in tandem with the global
recovery. Economic activity picked up in the second half of 2009 and is off to a strong
start in 2010. The recovery is led by a resurgence in the demand for exports. Current
projections of economic activity in Mexico take into account the depth of the recent
recession and show that output will remain below potential at least until 2012.
Assumptions regarding the external environment have a major impact on projections for
Mexico's main macroeconomic variables. The base case scenario shown in Table 1 uses
the Bank's Global Economic Prospects and the IMF's World Economic Outlook Update
(both dated January 2010) assumptions for global economic activity. The scenario shows
a modest rebound in economic activity by 2010 and 2011 and a return to potential output
by 2012.

18.     Due to the crisis, Mexico faces rising fiscal pressures and increasing public
debt-to-GDP ratios. Past fiscal discipline, including the establishment of stabilization
funds and the purchase of oil price hedges, enabled a counter-cyclical policy response to
the crisis in 2009. The public debt-to-GDP ratio posted an important increase at the end
of 2008 to 35.8 percent due to reforms in the social security system for public employees.
The sharp economic contraction, the depreciation of the currency, and a higher fiscal
deficit contributed to an increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio in 2009 39.5 percent despite
efforts to increase revenues. Policymakers face a trade-off between increased fiscal
discipline which may threaten the economic recovery and continued fiscal stimulus
which could worsen Mexico's debt position.

19.     Public debt remains within manageable proportions despite a significant
increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio that will continue until 2011. In late 2009, several
debt rating agencies downgraded Mexico's public debt. While this may raise the cost of
borrowing in the short term, it is not likely to have a major impact on public finance or
debt sustainability. A debt sustainability analysis based on average levels of economic
growth, the primary balance and the real interest rate on public debt observed over the
decade prior to the current economic crisis and applied to the debt-to-GDP ratios


                                            5
observed in the base by 2011 (39.7 percent), shows a return to a downward path of the
debt-to-GDP as of 2012 (39.6 percent).

20.     The macroeconomic policy framework is adequate for the proposed
Development Policy Loan. Fiscal and monetary policies have been well-managed in
recent years, resulting in a steady decline in public sector deficits and low, stable inflation
rates. The government has carefully managed both its external and domestic borrowing
to reduce the possibility of crowding out the private sector and to maintain Mexico's
external stability. Mexico seems well positioned to move into economic recovery and to
manage its debt burden (see annex 4 for more background information on the
macroeconomic, fiscal and financial sector context in Mexico).

             Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators for the Base Case Scenario




Source: Bank staff estimates




                                              6
      III.    THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY
                             PROCESSES

WATER SECTOR PROGRAM

21.      In order to deal with its important water sector challenges, Mexico has
adopted integrated water resources management (IWRM) principles to govern
sector policies and programs (Ley de Aguas Nacionales 2004). IWRM is regarded as
critical for sustainable outcomes, and is increasingly viewed as offering the best available
framework for creating the resilience needed to adapt to climate change (World Bank
2010b). Integrated water resources management enables: a) the conservation of water
through a more efficient allocation of the resource; b) the resolution of conflicts among
competing uses and users; c) accounting for the social, economic and environmental
value of water; d) the increased participation of communities and the private sector in
decision making and financing, and e) the implementation of the principle that water is an
economic good. IWRM defines the unit of planning not as a geopolitical boundary but
rather as a geophysical one; namely, the water basin.

22.    The Mexican Government's policy framework and efforts in the water sector
are defined by three main instruments. Two of these, the National Development Plan
(Plan Nacional de Desarollo, PND) and the National Infrastructure Program (Programa
Nacional de Infraestructura, PNI) are prepared by the Office of the President. The third,
the National Water Program (Programa Nacional Hídrico, PNH) is established by the
National Water Commission (CONAGUA). These three plans have a strong policy
coordination component that makes possible a sector framework in line with the
government's development objectives.

23.     According to Mexico's 2007-2012 National Development Plan, the reduced
availability of water caused by population and economic growth, together with the
unsustainable management of this resource, can make water a limiting factor rather
than a catalyst for sustainable development. The PND's main objective is the
achievement of sustainable human development. To that end, the Plan focuses on five
main policy areas that promote: (a) the rule of law and security; (b) a competitive
economy, which creates employment; (c) equal opportunities; (d) environmental
sustainability; and (e) effective democracy and a responsible foreign policy. The Plan's
environmental sustainability section puts forth a series of strategies and actions for the
water sector. These include the promotion of efficient and sustainable water use; support
for performance improvements at the water utilities as well as the reuse of wastewater;
fostering integrated and sustainable water management; and the promotion of the
efficient use of water in agricultural activities. In addition, the Plan fosters actions to
preserve and strengthen watersheds and coastal ecosystems and to rehabilitate bodies of
water so that they can better store water. The PND also incorporates strategies related to
water and climate change, including adaptation strategies for vulnerable sectors (social
actions).

24.   Mexico's National Infrastructure Program (PNI) stems from the National
Development Plan (PND) and establishes a number of strategies in several key

                                             7
infrastructure sectors, including water and sanitation, flood control, and
agricultural water management. The main areas of focus in water and sanitation
revolve around increasing coverage of drinking water and sewerage, with explicit
reference to marginalized and vulnerable populations in rural areas, promoting the overall
efficiency of water utilities, and increasing wastewater treatment levels. In the area of
flood control and water management in agriculture, the PNI's strategies include
modernizing and improving irrigation technology; increasing the share of irrigated land
in areas where water is available; and maintaining, improving, and expanding flood
control infrastructure. In addition, the document sets measurable goals for 2012 in all
three areas and establishes a medium-term scenario for an investment plan in the sector.

25.     Mexico's 2007-2012 National Water Program (PNH) sets forth the water
policy framework for the country. The Plan sets integrated water resources
management objectives, strategies and goals aimed at achieving the sustainable use of
water, recognizes its strategic value, and promotes environmental protection. The
objectives of the PNH are to improve water productivity in the agricultural sector;
increase access to water supply and sanitation;4 integrate water resources management in
basins and aquifers; mitigate hydro-meteorological and meteorological risks; improve
wastewater treatment;5 provide incentives for wastewater reuse; assess the effects of
climate change on the hydrological cycle; and strengthen the participation of users and
civil society in water management. CONAGUA is in charge of preparing the PNH as
well as designing and implementing a series of sector programs that provide the
operational foundations of the Plan (see Annex 8 for details about CONAGUA's
programs).

26.     Consistent with the IWRM approach, the current Administration has been
gradually transferring CONAGUA's central level functions and responsibilities to
subnational entities; namely, the river basin organizations (RBOs, organismos de
cuenca) and river basin councils (RBCs, consejos de cuenca) that are playing an
increasing role in the sector. The river basin organizations are conceived as specialized
units of CONAGUA with technical and administrative autonomy to exercise the
functions assigned to them by law. The National Water Law provides the RBOs
sufficient independence and autonomy to manage the assets and resources allocated to
them by CONAGUA. The RBOs are responsible for formulating regional policy,
designing programs to implement those policies, conducting studies to estimate the value
of the resources generated within their boundaries (water user fees), recommending
specific rates for water user fees as a result of those studies, and finally, operating the
necessary mechanisms for collecting water user fees.

27.     The RBCs, as well as other civil society participation instruments,
complement the water sector organization. They represent key stakeholders in the
sector by means of their integration with state and municipal representatives, users, civil

4
  The targeted goal is to increase access to water supply and sewage from the baseline levels of 95 and 87
percent, respectively, in 2006 to 90 and 86 percent by 2012.
5
  The targeted goal is to increase treatment from the baseline level of 36 percent in 2006 to 60 percent by
2012.

                                                      8
society and nongovernmental organizations. The RBCs serve mainly as advisory
councils, giving their members a voice on key issues. To that end, they also help to
disseminate information about those key issues, including: priorities for investment,
water valuation to estimate contribution amounts, technical assessment of water
availability, etc. RBCs have auxiliary nongovernmental organizations that carry out
similar functions to theirs in important sub-basins (Basin Commissions) and aquifers
(Aquifer Technical Committees ­ COTAS). Figure 1 below shows the water sector's
institutional arrangements and the interactions among the different organizations. A more
detailed description can be found in Annex 7.

Figure 1: Institutional Arrangements for Integrated Water Resources Management
                               (IWRM) in Mexico




28.     In order to further the integrated management of water resources,
CONAGUA has regulated the role and functions of water banks.6 The legal basis for
establishing water banks can be found in the Mexican Constitution, which sanctions the
creation of entities to manage regulated operations for water rights exchanges. The
strategic relevance of water banks is also highlighted in the PND and in the PNH. Water
banks foster the transfer (registry) of water rights, providing economic incentives to
water users to allocate rights to areas with the highest economic value. They also serve
as a source of information by providing users with data on water use and availability in a
given basin. While the PNH established the goal of creating at least two water banks by



6
  Subdirección General de Administración del Agua (SGAA) art. 24 and Gerencia de Regulación de
Transmisión de Derechos, Bancos del Agua y Control de Información (GRTDBACI) art. 29.

                                              9
2012, two water banks had already been created by December 2009.7 At this point, it is
foreseen that a total of 13 water banks will be opened (one per basin) by the end of the
current Administration.

29.     Most water in Mexico is supplied by public authorities who also set prices. In
doing so, they must follow pricing principles that lead to equitable and efficient water
use. The National Water Law allows CONAGUA to charge a fee for the right to use
water, as well as to charge a fee for discharging pollutants into natural streams or lakes.
The current water pricing system in Mexico incorporates two kinds of tariffs: a fixed
price per cubic meter of water used (which differs by water supply zone), and an
increasing block rate structure. As in many other countries, electricity tariffs for
agriculture are subsidized in Mexico, and this may lead to the over-extraction and
overuse of water resources, particularly groundwater. Given the sensitive political
economy issues associated with reducing those subsidies, the GOM is adopting
regulatory, institutional, and participatory approaches for cost recovery and improving
incentives for water conservation. This operation supports those efforts. It does so by
strengthening the institutional framework through the creation of water banks and the
decentralization of responsibility to improve the allocation of water resources, as well as
by improving the distribution of responsibilities and promoting the participation of key
stakeholders in decisions about water use and cost recovery mechanisms. Additionally,
CONAGUA has requested Bank support through the Technical Assistance Program (see
Annex 11) for the several activities including the formulation of Vision 2030, the River
Basin Plans, and the Financial System in the Water Sector. These programs will provide
the government several policy options for cost recovery and water conservation, and
eventually, for reducing electricity subsidies.

30.     The path to achieving full cost recovery is long and difficult, and Mexico is
not alone in attempting this. The World Bank's "World Development Report 2010:
Development and Climate Change" notes that water is almost always priced below its
true economic and social value, giving users little incentive to use it efficiently. The
report also states that charging a tariff that is closer to the actual cost of providing water
services (such as irrigation, drinking water, wastewater collection and treatment) can be a
useful tool for recovering these costs and raising the necessary revenues to maintain the
infrastructure (O&M). However, the report concludes, most countries find it politically
unacceptable to charge much more than is required to recover operational costs. Despite
the evidence of the contentious and political nature of pricing with regard to the provision
of water services, the GOM is committed to moving in the right direction. For example,
a new tariff structure was recently approved for Mexico City that effectively raises the
price of water services by approximately 28 percent and includes targeted subsidies for
the low-income population.




7
    In Cuencas Centrales del Norte, Lerma Santiago Pacifico.

                                                     10
ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE WATER SECTOR

31.     In 2009, the GOM launched the Special Climate Change Program (Programa
Especial de Cambio Climático, PECC) as its over-arching strategy for addressing
climate change. Like all government programs, the PECC is part of the 2007­2012
National Development Plan. It is termed a "Special Program" because it cuts across all
economic sectors and therefore requires cooperation among them. The PECC sets out a
four pillar program that includes: (a) a long-term vision for government action; (b)
sectoral plans for the mitigation of greenhouse gases (GHG); (c) plans for adaptation; and
(d) cross-cutting policy initiatives. In the long term, the PECC's objective is to reduce
GHG emissions by 50 percent by 2050 compared to 2000. The Program establishes the
period 2008-2012 as the first phase of the long-term approach. During that period the
program will focus on carrying out:
               an evaluation of the country's vulnerability to climate change; and
               an economic valuation of the priority measures for intervention.

32.     The PECC identifies low levels of water availability and poor water quality
as the main problems that hamper sustained growth and development. Given the
crucial implications of water issues for economic development, public finance,
infrastructure investment, environmental sustainability, and social equity and distribution,
the Program proposes a shift in development patterns and the management of resources in
ways that take into account the potential impacts of climate change.

33.    A key policy area in the PECC is adaptation to climate change in the water
sector. The Program establishes a series of objectives in the areas of water infrastructure
and water resources and also includes concrete actions and goals. The purpose of those
measures is to reduce the vulnerability of the water sector to climate change by
improving and modernizing the water infrastructure, to using institutional instruments to
support the sector's strategic adaptation capacity, and to promoting higher investments in
water-related services as well as research and development (R&D). For that purpose, the
PECC establishes the following objectives (Annex 6 provides details of the activities
considered in these areas, as well as an overview of policy instruments for adaptation to
climate change in the water sector):
          i.   Improving the availability and quality of water;
         ii.   Strengthening the sector's capacity to adapt to extreme
               hydrometeorological events;
        iii.   Reducing the vulnerability of human settlements and of water
               infrastructure, incorporating integrated risk management actions;
        iv.    Consolidating a national system for meteorological and hydrological
               information;
         v.    Increasing knowledge about the impacts of climate change on water
               resources and their vulnerability; and
        vi.    Water conservation and modernization of the irrigation districts.

34.   Notably, Mexico is also putting in place programs that tackle water and
adaptation to climate change in several other sectors. This includes the Special

                                            11
Program for the Restoration of Microwatersheds in Priority Areas (Programa Especial
para la Restauración de las Microcuencas en Zonas Prioritarias, SPRMPA), that was
established on July 14, 2009, at President Calderon's request. This special program was
designed by the National Forest Commission (Comisión Nacional Forestal, CONAFOR)
as an emergency plan to target the Cutzamala watershed (this is Mexico City's major
water source and is in the midst of severe water shortages). Specifically, the program's
aim is to support activities in degraded watersheds in critical areas that reduce threats to
water supplies. The program is expected to last five years through 2013 and has a total
cost of MX$2 billion. The design of the SPRMPA followed the Payment for
Environmental Services (PES) methodology (see Box 1).

             Box 1: The PES Mechanism and the PES Program in Mexico
 The importance of ecosystems and the individual roles that they play in providing
 environmental services has been largely forgotten. Yet, this is a central issue of sustainability
 because each ecosystem provides a unique service. The importance of land use management
 is, therefore, directly related to the sustainability of water services. In this context, the
 Payment for Environmental Services (PES) is a subsidy mechanism to improve the provision
 of indirect environmental services (e.g. water, carbon, biodiversity) in which:
     Those who provide environmental services get paid for doing so (`provider gets'),
     Those who benefit from environmental services pay for their provision (`user pays'),
     Payments are conditional, and
     Participation is voluntary
 The main characteristics of Mexico's Payment for Environmental Services Program are:
       It is world's largest PES Program, with an annual budget of US$100m;
       It is managed by CONAFOR, Mexico's National Forestry Commission;
       To date, the program has supported the conservation of 2.37 million hectares, providing
       payments to over 5,000 small land-owners;
       Payments are differentiated based on the value of forest for environmental services
       (water and biodiversity), which is a best practice; and
       New efforts are focused on developing sustainable local financing mechanisms.

35.     The policies and programs introduced by the PECC were consolidated
through the Fourth National Communication (2010) to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). This Communication posits
that gathering information about climate variability and climate change is vital in order to
put the adaptation strategy into operation. Additionally, the Communication establishes
the need to strengthen technical capabilities to understand and make use of
hydrometeorological information; to develop decision-making criteria under uncertainty
scenarios; to strengthen the institutions, regulatory framework and the market; and to
promote civil society participation in the development of programs and strategies.

36.     This Communication also proposes the incorporation of risk and adaptation
criteria in the development and land planning strategies of municipalities and
federal entities, as well as the strengthening of the focus on saving water, especially in
the agricultural sector, which is the largest user of water (around 77 percent). This can be
achieved by upgrading irrigation technology, introducing conservation practices and
                                                12
encouraging the development of a culture of water saving. In Mexico's most arid areas,
the irrigation districts must emphasize adjustments to assigned water volumes as well as
improvements in management practices. Regarding Mexico's urban areas, studies
undertaken by the National Ecology Institute (Instituto Nacional de Ecología, INE)
suggest that sustainability and the ongoing availability of water require operation in
closed loops (recycle and reuse of water).

37.     Mexico's commitment in responding to the challenges of climate change is
evidenced, among other things, by the four communications that the country has
submitted to the UNFCCC. Mexico is the first non-Annex I and developing country to
do so, demonstrating its firm commitment to addressing climate change in its policies,
strategies, programs and projects. These communications, albeit not legally binding
documents, have strong relevance as most of the commitments they include have been
fully implemented and represent major milestones in the Government's efforts to tackling
climate change (see Box 2). The most relevant commitments have been the formulation
of the National Climate Change Strategy (Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático,
ENACC) and the Special Climate Change Program (PECC), both of them established in
the Third Communication. The PECC contains an array of activities on mitigation and
adaptation that have been incorporated into sector and institutional programs, both at the
Federal and State levels. Additional important examples of commitments established in
communications to the UNFCCC are the: a) formulation and implementation of the
"Water Culture" program; b) preparation and updating of the National Greenhouse Gas
Inventory; c) design and implementation of a voluntary program for the reporting of
GHG Emissions by private sector companies; d) implementation of a national program
for payment for environmental services (PES); e) the development of methodologies for
the preparation of climate change scenarios; and f) the formulation of State Climate
Change Plans8.




8
 The plan for Veracruz has been completed. Those for Michoacan, Nuevo Leon, Chiapas, Tabasco and
Yucatan are currently under preparation.

                                                13
         Box 2: Mexico's Four National Communications to the UNFCCC

First Communication (1997): The first National Communication (NC) described studies and
actions adopted by the GOM to address climate change issues at the national level. This also
included the execution of qualitative vulnerability assessments that divided the country into
three large regions. The First Communication also presented the results of the first national
inventory of greenhouse gas emissions, using first order approximations.

Second Communication (2001): In 2001, Mexico developed its first climate change
scenarios based on information generated through global circulation models. Work also
started on the identification of specific mitigation technologies applicable to local conditions.
The document incorporated an assessment of local and global benefits of atmospheric air
pollution control practices in a large metropolis.
Mexico joined Central America and Cuba to report findings on regional vulnerability
assessments and establish country priorities, as well as carry out the first analysis of feasible
adaptation options.

Third Communication (2006): This NC includes important advances on Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) methods to assess GHG emissions, substantially improving
the quality and reliability of the national inventory of greenhouse gases. Previous inventories
were updated to incorporate the improved methods. The Third Communication also
incorporated improved climate modeling, increasing the resolution (scale) available for
conducting vulnerability analyses.
The availability of improved information allowed Mexico to conduct new vulnerability
assessments for water, forestry, and agriculture. It was also able, for the first time, to include
climate change vulnerability assessments for health, energy, tourism, and biodiversity.
Mexico also reported vulnerability assessments at the regional and state level and for selected
sectors (water in Sonora, tourism in Quintana Roo, the coastal wetland ecosystem in the Gulf
of Mexico, etc.). For the first time, public participation was sought at all levels and in all
activities. The Third Communication established the commitment to prepare the Special
Climate Change Program (PECC), which was approved in 2009.

Fourth Communication (2009): Work with the IPCC allowed Mexico to update its National
GHG Inventory for 2006 and also introduce the Study of the Economic Impacts of Climate
Change. Mexico is the first developing country to publish such a study, with support from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the World Bank, and the United Nations Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC). Following in Mexico's
footsteps, other Latin American countries have now started to prepare similar studies, using
similar methodologies and with assistance from the Mexican team.
The Fourth Communication also includes Voluntary Accounting and GHG Emissions
Reporting and a report on the outcome of several projects on the reduction and optimization
of methane. Various states, including Veracruz and Mexico City, have formulated or are
formulating their State Actions Plans against Climate Change.
Mexico is the only non-Annex 1 (Kyoto Protocol) country to have submitted Four
Communications to the UNFCCC and plans to submit the Fifth by the end of the current
Administration (2012). (See Annex 6).




                                               14
38.     Additionally, Mexico has played an important role in the United Nations
Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD)9 and in the Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD)10. The GOM has submitted three reports to the UNCCD
(2000, 2002 and 2006) regarding the implementation of its national strategy to combat
desertification and mitigate the effects of droughts. Some thematic issues reported were
the sustainable management of natural resources (including rational management of
drainage basins and exploitation and efficient use of water resources); rational
management and conservation of soil resources; and strengthened information and early
warning systems, taking account of climate, meteorological, hydrological, biological,
soil, economic and social factors. Mexico has also submitted four reports to the CBD on
the implementation of the National Biodiversity Strategy and its Action Plan, as well as
several thematic reports including: Technology Transfer and Cooperation, Mountain
Ecosystems, Forest Ecosystems, and Natural Protected Areas.

39.    Mexico is making steady progress in implementing a series of activities aimed
at reaching the targets set forth in the PND, PNI, PNH and PECC. A good example
of such progress is the recent Program for Water Sustainability in the Mexico Valley,
which will significantly increase the volumes of wastewaters treated; contribute to
reducing over-exploitation of aquifers; provide alternative sources of water for irrigation;
and reduce the impacts of extreme events and vulnerability to climate change by doubling
the capacity to evacuate rainwater from the Zona Metropolitana del Valle de México. (see
Annex 9 for details of this program).

40.      Mexico's role as a global climate change leader has been recognized by the
Climate Performance Index, an independent assessment of the overall climate
performance of countries. The assessment ranks countries based on: (a) per capita
GHG emission trends in the energy, transport, residential, and industrial sectors; (b)
absolute energy-related GHG emissions; and (c) climate policy. In the assessment
released at the end of 2009, Mexico ranks 11th among 60 relevant countries, ahead of
Portugal (12th), Denmark (17th), The Netherlands (27th), Japan (35th), Italy (44th), China
(52nd), the United States (53rd), and Canada (59th).11

PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS

41.    Mexico has developed a comprehensive institutional framework for citizen
participation that draws from several articles of the Constitution and from a set of laws12


9
  The UNCCD was adopted in 1994 and entered into force in 1996. 193 countries were Parties as at August 2009, and
Mexico has been part of the Convention since 1994. In conformity with the Convention, and in accordance with their
national development policies, affected country Parties shall, as appropriate, prepare and implement national action
programs to combat desertification and mitigate the effects of drought as an integral part of their national policies for
sustainable development.
10
   The CBD entered into force in 1993. It has three main objectives: conservation of biological diversity; sustainable
use of the components of biological diversity; and fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising out of the utilization
of genetic resources. The CBD has 193 parties and Mexico has been a member since 1993.
11
     See http://www.germanwatch.org/klima/.
12
  Constitution of the Mexican States, Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, and 26; Ley de Planeación (Planning Law); Ley Federal
de Transparencia y Acceso a la Información Pública Gubernamental (Transparency and Public Information Law) and

                                                            15
(including the Planning Law) that mandate that the National Development Plan and other
government programs should be developed within a participatory process. This
framework applies to both the environmental and the water sectors, which have
developed their own specific guidelines and options for citizen participation that draws
from several articles of the Constitution and from a set of laws13 (including the Planning
Law) that mandate that the National Development Plan and other government programs
should be developed within a participatory process. This framework applies to both the
environmental and the water sectors, which have developed their own specific guidelines
and options for citizen participation. The specific prior actions, policies, norms and
programs contemplated under the Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL
have been framed within this institutional framework (see details in Annex 5).

42.     This institutional framework includes mechanisms for transparency and
access to information, consultation and participation, and social monitoring and
grievance redress. Norms follow a rulemaking procedure that includes a 60-day notice
and comment period that is mandatory for all official legislative and regulatory proposals
in Mexico. Government programs and strategies are formulated through a process that
involves consultation with civil society organizations. The implementation of most
programs includes multi-stakeholder councils or other governance bodies that allow for
citizen participation as well as monitoring of program management. In general,
participation is concentrated among organizations with technical expertise, both at the
national and at the regional level, with citizen participation at the local level varying
across place and program.




other state and municipal laws on transparency and access to information;; Ley Federal de Fomento a las Actividades
Realizadas por Organizaciones de la Sociedad Civil (Law for the Promotion of Activities Carried Out by Civil Society
Organizations).
13
   Constitution of the Mexican States, Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, and 26; Ley de Planeación (Planning Law); Ley Federal
de Transparencia y Acceso a la Información Pública Gubernamental (Transparency and Public Information Law) and
other state and municipal laws on transparency and access to information;; Ley Federal de Fomento a las Actividades
Realizadas por Organizaciones de la Sociedad Civil (Law for the Promotion of Activities Carried Out by Civil Society
Organizations).

                                                         16
        IV.     BANK'S SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM

SUMMARY UPDATE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CPS

43.     Mexico and the World Bank Group have had a longstanding partnership
that encompasses the delivery of the full menu of financial, knowledge, and
coordination and convening services. The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
Mexico,14 which was discussed by the Board in April 2008, built on the Mexican
authorities' desire to maintain a strong financial and knowledge-based relationship with
the Bank, focusing on flexibility and innovation in responding to the Partner's
development challenges and borrowing needs with higher levels of flows dependent upon
evolving market conditions. The aim of the CPS is to provide a flexible framework for
World Bank Group support to Mexico. The strategy is based on a streamlined approach
to lending that is in line with the priorities set in the National Development Plan (PND)
2007-2012.

44.     As described in the CPS Progress Report15, the Partnership has evolved
along with Mexico's changing needs in the face of the economic downturn. In
response to the GOM's latest priorities and thanks to the flexibility embedded in the CPS,
the IBRD was able to address the federal government's need for increased financing
quickly, while continuing to deliver on a broad knowledge services and policy
coordination activities. The framework includes efforts to alleviate the expected
consequences of the economic downturn on Mexico's population, as well as establish the
foundation for gradually strengthening the financial sector, supporting investment in
infrastructure and climate change mitigation and adaptation, and enhancing governance
and counter-cyclical measures. The Bank Group will continue deploying its three
business lines, with financing taking on a larger role during this counter-cyclical period at
least through calendar year 2010. Beyond 2010, the focus of the partnership is likely to
remain on promoting knowledge and innovation, but providing a higher level of base
financing as compared to pre-global crisis expectations.

45.    During the crisis, financing approved by the Bank has significantly exceeded
the level anticipated in the CPS of US$800 million annually, reaching US$3.4 billion
in FY09 and expected to be around US$6.7 billion in FY10. This level of "rainy day"
financing was made possible by Mexico's significant prepayment of IBRD debt in FY07.

46.    Developing Infrastructure and Assuring Energy Security and Environmental
Sustainability have become a major part of the CPS program for both reactivating the
economy and putting it on an environmentally sustainable trajectory. The GOM has
accelerated its reform program during the crisis and climate change adaptation is now a
major policy objective of Mexico. Beyond lending, the broad range of Bank assistance in
this area, including grants, knowledge services and convening activities, is being
coordinated through TAPs with the Environment, Transport, Energy and Water sectors.


14
     Report No. 42846-MX, March 4, 2008.
15
     Provided to the Board on March 25, 2010.

                                                17
47.     The International Finance Corporation (IFC) will continue to be a strong
partner of Mexico, with a focus on investments and advisory services that
complement IBRD efforts to improve economic conditions at the base of the
pyramid. Assistance will be provided to broaden and deepen the financial sector,
support investment in infrastructure and climate change, and help those competitive
industries, such as SMEs, that are an important source of new jobs. In response to the
crisis, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) is implementing systemic
interventions (such as the housing finance facility for US$150 million) and will embrace
a selective approach to new business to ensure high additionality and development impact
in the counter-cyclical phase. Additionally, the IFC and IBRD have started to coordinate
interventions in climate change and in the water sector.

LINK TO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY

48.      A key principle established in the CPS and reiterated in the Progress Report
is that the Bank's program should be closely aligned with the government's own
development strategy. With the advent of the crisis, the Mexican government's focus
shifted from the initial set of priorities established in the PND in order to address more
immediate challenges. Those challenges are stabilizing fiscal accounts and revitalizing
the economy while, at the same time, accelerating the pace of longer-term reforms as
shifts in the political environment provide opportunities to do so. The Bank program has
responded in a timely and efficient manner to Mexico's evolving needs, while
maintaining a crucial focus on the long-run development challenges identified, such as
climate change adaptation.

49.     Mexico has taken a major leap forward in integrating climate change
considerations into its infrastructure and social programs under the Special
Program for Climate Change and the Bank is a critical partner in this effort. IBRD
lending activities supporting environmental sustainability have embraced a wide variety
of sectors including urban transport, energy, agriculture, water and more broadly natural
resource management. Moreover, the Bank is increasingly focusing on poverty and
social issues by supporting analytical and advisory activities (AAA) that encourage the
establishment of a sustainable development framework for evaluating infrastructure
projects targeted to the poorest states and municipalities.

50.     The proposed operation, which addresses Adaptation to Climate Change in
the Water Sector, is consistent with national priorities. Mexico faces critical and
urgent water problems. The unsustainable use of water resources contributes to widening
the gap between the wealthy and the poor. Sustainable and integrated water resource
management, based on principles of efficiency and conservation, and implemented by a
more efficient provision of water services, increased levels of wastewater treatment and
reuse, and an improved institutional framework, is expected to have positive effects on
poverty and inequality by increasing the affordability and accessibility of services. It will
also have a positive impact on the country's competitiveness and infrastructure,
particularly in the water sector. These objectives are all aligned with the government's
2007- 2012 National Development Plan (PND), and they fit within the framework
outlined in the CPS FY08-FY13 for Mexico.

                                             18
51.     Finally, this DPL is fully aligned with the CPS objectives and strategy as up-
dated in the recent Progress Report. This up-date stated that the Bank would remain
Mexico's primary partner in helping it to advance its climate change agenda, both
nationally and on the global stage. The proposed operation fits within the GOM's top
priorities as reflected in the PND as well as in the CPS pillars16 Improving
Competitiveness and Developing Infrastructure, and Assuring Environmental
Sustainability, which remain highly relevant to Mexico's development challenges. In
parallel, the Bank and the government of Mexico are expected to reach an agreement on a
complementary set of advisory services to support the implementation of this DPL (see
next Section).

THE VALUE ADDED PROVIDED BY THE BANK

52.     The philosophy behind the CPS as reaffirmed in the Progress Report, is to
expand the scope of knowledge and policy coordination services. Memoranda of
Understanding (MOUs) have been developed during the current CPS period to provide an
instrument for coordinating AAA, loans, and grants in programs to address critical
development challenges. MOUs represent a departure from an operational or ESW-
centric approach to sector dialogue and development solutions, and recognize the need to
maintain a long-term level of engagement based on agreed-upon objectives and
development challenges that are not subject to unanticipated changes in financing and
knowledge product needs in particular sectors.

53.     Eight MOUs are currently underway in Mexico and they cover issues such as
fiduciary strengthening, competiveness and financing, poverty and social programs,
public sector management, integrated water resource management, energy financing and
regulation, urban transport, education, health, and environment and climate change.
Important progress has been made in the implementation of the MOUs. As an example,
the urban transport sector saw progress in several areas, including the development of an
integrated Guide for Urban Transport Safeguards for the GOM and the cities participating
in the Federal Mass Transit Support Program (Programa de Apoyo Federal al Transporte
Masivo, PROTRAM) to comply with national regulations as well as reflect World Bank
policies. In addition, a Cost-Benefit Analysis Manual will guide the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, SHCP) and the National
Infrastructure Fund (Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura, FONADIN) in the process of
approving financing for projects. And finally, improvements have been made to the
Sustainable Urban Mobility Program, which provides a regulatory framework for the
Urban Transport Master Plan. In the energy sector, a series of studies and workshops
called for in the MOU have already been completed. In the area of the Environment and
Climate Change, the Bank is providing support for a complex program. Box 3 shows the
details of this last MOU and progress to date.



16
  The priority areas highlighted by the CPS are a) Accelerating growth; b) Improving Competitiveness; c)
Promoting Social Inclusion and Reducing Poverty; d) Developing Infrastructure and Assuring Energy
Security; e) Strengthening Institutions; f) Assuring Environmental Sustainability.

                                                  19
54.    The World Bank will support CONAGUA in positioning itself vis-à-vis
climate change and placing this issue at the top of its corporate agenda. This support
will be provided thorough streamlined IBRD financial support, whereby the design and
implementation of the proposed operation will be accompanied by an enhanced package
of knowledge and policy coordination services set forth in a MOU. Resources are
expected to be available from the Water Partnership Program and the Spanish Trust Fund
for Latin America and the Caribbean (SFLAC) for technical assistance and advisory
services to support program advancement. SHCP has recently informed the Bank that the
new MOUs will be called Technical Assistance Program (TAP) from now on. A
preliminary draft TAP is presented in Annex 11.

                  Box 3: Environmental and Climate Change MOU

 To complement the Climate Change DPL and numerous on-going Bank activities directed
 toward mainstreaming environmental policies, the GOM and the Bank have signed a MOU to
 buttress policy dialogue and further strengthen Mexico's capacity to implement its National
 Climate Change Strategy and Special Climate Change Program. The main lines of support
 and current progress status are listed below.
     Assessment of environmental regulations (completed)
     Sub-national climate change action plans (agreement on scope reached; three
     workshops have already been held)
     Social dimensions of climate change (first phase of study completed)
     Vulnerability to climate change in agricultural systems (study completed; workshop has
     been held)
     Adaptation to Climate Change in the Gulf Coast (project negotiated)
     Climate change mitigation in the forestry sector (Mexico's participation in the United
     Nations Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and
     Forest Degradation (REDD) approved)
     Preparation of the Clean Technology Fund Investment Plan (completed, plan approved
     by the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) Committee)
     Low Carbon Economy study (MEDEC) (completed)
     Institutional strengthening of SEMARNAT (in progress)
     Design of the Mexico Cap and Trade system (in progress)
 The activities included in this MOU are financed through a combination of Bank resources,
 government funds and grants that total approximately US$9 million.


COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS

55.    World Bank and IMF staffs meet on a regular basis to share views on the
macroeconomic situation and prospects for Mexico. The meetings occur quarterly and
also involve the exchange of information and discussions of financial sector issues, as
both institutions are actively engaged in policy advice in this area.




                                             20
56.    The IMF's Board approved a US$47 billion Flexible Credit Line (FCL) in
April 2009 to provide additional precautionary sources of external funds17.
Announcement of the FCL greatly reduced the volatility of the peso. This flexible
instrument which was recently renamed, can be used at any given time within a one-year
timeframe and the disbursements are not staggered. The FCL is only made available to
countries with a solid financial system and Mexico is the first to qualify. This type of
support is meant to complement World Bank and IDB financing of the government
budget. The US Federal Reserve has also arranged a US$30 billion currency swap in
response to the financial turmoil that occurred that same month.

57.    The IDB has also played an active role in supporting the GOM's climate
change agenda. In November 2009, the IDB approved US$200 million for a program to
support the ability of state governments to implement plans to reduce their vulnerability
to climate change. The IDB has also provided support to the states of Tabasco and
Quintana Roo for the development of State Action Plans for Climate Change, with two
operations totaling US$200 million each in October 2008 and January 2009. Finally, the
IDB approved a US$40 million project to reduce the environmental footprint of one of
Mexico's leading commercial banks (BBVA Bancomer) and to support the institution in
improving the energy efficiency and environmental sustainability of its buildings.

58.     Donor collaboration on issues related to climate change was highlighted
during the development of the Investment Plan (IP) for the CTF. The IP was
adopted in January 2009 and represents an agreement between the GOM, the IDB, and
the World Bank Group (WBG) to provide support for the low carbon objectives
contained in Mexico's 2007-2012 PND, the PECC and the overall National Climate
Change Strategy (Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático, ENACC). The Plan
identifies the programs to be co-financed in three main sectors (urban transport,
renewable energy and energy efficiency) and is considered a flexible instrument aimed at
fostering the climate change agenda.

59.      The French Development Agency (AFD) has also been an active player in the
climate change arena in Mexico. In February 2010, it approved a US$250 million
program to support Mexico's climate change agenda through targeted technical assistance
on sectoral and cross-cutting issues. During the preparation process, the AFD and the
Bank carried out a series of meetings that created a forum for sharing experiences. Both
institutions have benefited from this exchange.

RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS
60.     The proposed operation builds on the World Bank's engagement in the water
sector and in activities and programs related to climate change. The Bank has made
a strong and long-term commitment in both areas in Mexico, and the present operation is
the result of a long-standing and comprehensive policy dialogue as well as an operational
relationship between the World Bank Group and the GOM (Figure 2).


17
     In March 2010, the IMF renewed the FCL for one year (see Annex 3).

                                                   21
     Figure 2: Ongoing Climate Change and Water Sector Activities Supported by the
                                   Bank in Mexico




61.     In addition to the experience and lessons derived from previous and ongoing
operations, the preparation of this DPL benefitted from--and was informed by--an
extensive set of analytical studies covering public expenditure reviews (PERs); global
and regional climate change reports; global and regional water sector reports; and specific
Mexico studies (see below for a description of analytical underpinnings). It has also
benefitted from the results of the Bank's Mid-Cycle Implementation Progress Report of
the Water Resources Strategy, which highlights the efforts to position water at the core of
the adaptation and mitigation solution (World Bank 2010b).

Engagement and Dialogue on Climate Change

62.    The commitment of the World Bank on issues related to climate change in
Mexico and its support of the government's efforts in this area date back to the mid-
1990s. At present, this commitment comprises 35 initiatives (active or in the pipeline)
financed by IBRD loans, GEF grants, carbon finance emission reductions purchase
agreements (ERPAs), and other financial instruments. The Programmatic Environmental
Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) approved in 2002 and 200518 were a landmark in
mainstreaming the environmental sustainability principle in sectoral policies for tourism,
energy, forestry, and water, as prioritized by the government. These were followed by the
Environmental Sustainability Development Policy Loan (ENVDPL) and its Supplemental
Financing,19 which built upon Mexico's PND and expanded the objectives of previous
Environmental Structural Adjustment and Development Policy Loans.




18
   Environment Structural Adjustment Loan and Second Programmatic Environment Development Policy
Loan (ENVSAL I and ENVDPL II ­ respectively, P074539 and P079748) were approved in August 2002
and September 2005, and closed in December 2003 and January 2006.
19
   Environmental Sustainability Development Policy Loan (P095510) approved in September 2008 and
Supplemental Financing approved in December 2008.

                                              22
63.     The Climate Change DPL (CCDPL)20 was designed to support the GOM's
efforts to mainstream climate change and environmental considerations into public
policy, fostering national institutional capacities and assisting the GOM by
providing knowledge management on adaptation and mitigation activities. Most
recently, the Green Growth DPL21 added value by supporting the implementation of key
related policies and aligning Bank technical assistance to reduce GHG emissions on a
voluntary basis within a framework of medium- to long-term goals for climate change
mitigation. The achievements of the CCDPL were consolidated by the Green Growth
DPL's focus on low-carbon transport and energy use that provided the framework for a
deeper engagement through specific investment operations22 in urban transport23 and
energy efficiency24.

64.     The GEF grant for Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on the
Coastal Wetlands of the Gulf of Mexico25 promotes adaptation in that region through
implementation of pilot measures to gather information to ascertain the costs and benefits
of different approaches to reduce vulnerability to climate change. This project also seeks
to assess the overall impacts of climate change on national water resource planning,
including the identification of potential response options, with a focus on coastal
wetlands and associated watersheds. Given the relevance of this project for the proposed
DPL, a close coordination will be established during the implementation of both
operations.

65.    The activities described above constitute the foundations of the Adaptation to
Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL, whose aim is the consolidation of the
Bank's programmatic approach in climate change adaptation and in the water
sector. The proposed operation brings to the front continued support to strengthen the
GOM's policy, strategy, and governance frameworks to address adaptation issues in the
water sector, through the improvement of Integrated Water Resources Management.
Overall, the proposed DPL constitutes the bridge and logical next step between climate
change policy support and water sector engagement in Mexico.

66.     Additional Bank assistance associated with the implementation of the
program supported by this DPL will result in the preparation of a Technical
Assistance Program to buttress policy dialogue on adaptation to climate change in
the water sector. According to preliminary discussions with CONAGUA, this support
could include assistance in the formulation of the water sector's new long-term vision
("Vision 2030"), as well as capacity building in matters related to climate change. This
TAP would follow the models for the environment (see Annex 11), energy, and transport
sectors that are currently being implemented.


20
   P110849, approved by the Board in April 2008 and expected to be closed in May 2010. This was the first
Climate Change DPL approved by the Bank.
21
   P115608, approved by the Board in October 2009 and expected to be closed in December 2010.
22
   Co-financed by IBRD and the Clean Technology Fund (CTF).
23
   PROTRAM P110474 and UTTP P107159.
24
   Efficient Lighting and Appliances project (under preparation).
25
   GEF Grant P100438.

                                                   23
Engagement and Dialogue in the Water Sector

67.    The Bank has a long history of dialogue with Mexico and assistance in the
areas of water resources management, irrigation and drainage, and water supply
and sanitation. In 1972, the Bank and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
provided support to Mexico in the development of the first comprehensive national water
plan (which was published in 1975). The Bank joined the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) in providing support for drafting the modern 1992 water legislation.
The 2004 Water Law, which builds on the previous one, was developed with support
from the ENVDPL II.

68.      Mexico was successful in transferring irrigation systems to water user
organizations, with the support of the Bank-financed Irrigation and Drainage
Sector Loan26 and the (now closed) On-Farm Irrigation Improvement Project.27
These efforts resulted in operation and maintenance improvements and increased
collection of water tariffs from water users. In addition, the Integrated Irrigation
Modernization Project (PMIR)28 (now closed) sought to improve the efficiency of
irrigation systems and increase the value of production per unit of water consumed. In
particular, the PMIR supported the modernization of existing irrigation infrastructure to
promote a more efficient use of irrigation water within the framework of integrated
irrigation plans, as well as consolidation of the transfer of irrigation infrastructure to
water users.

69.     Through the Water Resources Management Project (PROMMA29),
CONAGUA made strides fostering integrated water resources management to
promote conditions for environmentally sustainable, economically efficient and equitably
allocated use of water resources; support the comprehensive management of water; and
increase the benefits and reduce the risk related to existing hydraulic infrastructure.

70.     The Mexico Decentralized Infrastructure Reform and Development Loan
Project30 was designed to improve the performance of infrastructure services while
operationalizing the decentralization objectives of the national government, thereby
enabling and serving as a catalyst for the efficient and sustainable development of
selected infrastructure sectors at the subnational level. This project was initially rolled
out as a pilot effort in the state of Guanajuato but was not expanded to other states. The
project was based on the Sector Wide Approach (SWAp), emphasizing access to services
for the poorest, as well as improvements in infrastructure services and efficiency, and
strengthening of the environmental and social management capacity at the state level in
key sectors. The pilot project in Guanajuato included a component to improve utilities
efficiency, wastewater treatment, and water resource management in the water sector.
While a formal implementation completion report (ICR) is currently being prepared for


26
   P007667, approved by the Board in December 1991 and closed in June 2000.
27
   P007701, approved by the Board in February 1994 and closed in March 2002.
28
   P035752, approved by the Board in December 2003 and closed in September 2009.
29
   P007713, approved by the Board in June 1996 and closed in June 2005.
30
   P080149, approved by the Board in June 2004 and closed in December 2009.

                                                 24
this project, it is generally agreed that the water component was the most successful.
Additionally the project promoted a study on sustainable groundwater management for
the stabilization of selected state aquifers through (among other measures) the
consolidation of aquifer management organizations (the COTAS).

71.     In addition, the Bank has provided technical assistance to CONAGUA for
the implementation of its Flagship Local Interventions in the Water Sector Program
(Proyectos Emblemáticos). The aim of this support is to promote integrated water
resources management in local areas. CONAGUA has identified several projects whose
specific objectives vary according to the water problems faced in their particular
geographic areas. The National Water Commission has requested Bank support for the
planning phase of two of those projects: (a) the Flagship Project in the Comarca
Lagunera, which covers the Nazas and Aguanaval River basins in the states of Durango
and Coahuila; and (b) the Flagship Project of the Huehuetan River basin in the state of
Chiapas. The Flagship Projects represent an excellent opportunity to foster integrated,
sustainable, and participatory water resources management at the level of the basin or
micro-basin.

72.     With funding from the Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean
(SFLAC), the Bank will provide assistance for the preparation of two State Climate
Change Action Plans that will establish the state's emissions baseline and inventory;
define climate change scenarios; identify priorities for adaptation and, where relevant,
mitigation actions; and set forth specific actions to achieve those priorities. Such
priorities will be defined using participatory approaches, such as Strategic Environmental
Assessment, and involving key stakeholders to improve overall support for the plans.

73.     The Modernization of the Water and Sanitation Sector Technical Assistance
Project (Programa de Asistencia Técnica para el Mejoramiento de Eficiencias,
PATME)31 supports government efforts to develop the tools and instruments to
assist local authorities in improving the financial sustainability and efficiency of
water supply and sanitation service provision. This project has enabled CONAGUA
to develop new regulations that provide incentives for efficiency improvements,
including transferring financial resources based on efficiency and service improvements.
The project also supports the improvement of commercial and operational efficiency in a
group of selected utilities. Local authorities and utilities have had a very positive
reaction to this project. Thus, it is likely to yield a follow-up operation continuing and
scaling-up the work already done. The proposed operation complements many of the
policy triggers that will receive support during PATME's second phase (to be called the
Programa de Mejoramiento de Eficiencia [PROME]).

74.    The proposed operation builds on the operational experience gained and the
progress achieved in water resources management and efficiency in Mexico. These
two aspects are fundamental to adaptation and this DPL reinforces such perspective and
deepens the policy dialogue with the stakeholders on the matter.


31
     P091695, approved by the Board in August 2005 and expected to be closed in 2010.

                                                    25
ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

75.     A precondition for the proposed DPL was a strong analytical and policy
framework in the water sector, as well as activities related to climate change and a
sustained Bank engagement with the GOM. As previously stated, the Bank is relying
on a strong and long-term commitment in Mexico and the proposed operation supports a
subset of policies within the government's broad policy program on climate change and
water adaptation. These policies were selected on the basis of analytical work to
determine key policies with strong development impact, and are in line with the Country
Partnership Strategy for FY 2008­2013 for Mexico as up-dated in the recent Progress
Report. In addition to the experience and lessons derived from previous and ongoing
operations, the preparation of this DPL has benefitted from--and was informed by--an
extensive set of analytical studies.

76.     Strong scientific evidence indicates that climate change is a serious and
urgent issue. The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review states that climate
change is the greatest example of market failure (Stern 2007). The Earth's climate is
rapidly changing, mainly as a result of increases in greenhouse gases caused by human
activities. Climate change will be the most serious environmental problem that
humankind will face in the 21st century. While climate change threatens all countries,
developing countries are the most vulnerable. Preliminary estimates suggest that these
nations could bear some 75 to 80 percent of the costs of damages caused by the changing
climate. Climate change impacts development to its roots and in its many dimensions. It
threatens to deepen vulnerabilities, erode hard-won gains, and seriously undermine
prospects for development. Unmitigated climate change is incompatible with sustainable
development (World Bank 2010a).

77.     While mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions is needed to avoid an
unmanageable warming of the planet, adaptation is necessary to manage
unavoidable negative impacts already taking place. Water managers have always had
to cope with the variability of natural conditions. But climate change imposes new
challenges by increasing variability and uncertainty of the hydrological cycle. The
response to variability is adaptation. In adaptation in the water sector, the three main
priorities are to: (a) reduce vulnerability in order to increase protection of people and
ecosystems; (b) protect and restore ecosystems that provide critical land and water
resources and services; and (c) close the gap between water supply and demand
(European Environmental Agency 2007).

78.     Vulnerabilities of people and societies to shifts in hydrometeorological
trends, increased variability, and extreme events must be reduced. An increase in the
occurrence of floods, droughts, and other extreme weather events due to climate change
can have severe economic, social, and environmental impacts that can threaten
sustainable development. The costs of adaptation for the water sector rank as one of the
top three adaptation costs globally. It is also recognized that the clearest opportunities to
reduce the costs of adaptation are in water supply and flood protection (Margulis 2010).



                                             26
79.     The impacts of climate change on freshwater resources will be substantial.
The 2007 IPCC Report on Climate Change Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability makes
clear the impact of climate change on freshwater systems. The main conclusions of the
report are that: a) the impacts of climate change on freshwater systems and their
management are mainly due to the observed and projected increases in temperature, sea
level and precipitation variability (very high confidence); b) semi-arid and arid areas are
particularly exposed to the impacts of climate change on freshwater (high confidence); c)
higher water temperatures, increased precipitation intensity, and longer periods of low
flows exacerbate many forms of water pollution, with impacts on ecosystems, human
health, water system reliability and operating costs (high confidence); d) climate change
affects the function and operation of existing water infrastructure and water management
practices (very high confidence); and e) the negative impacts of climate change on
freshwater systems outweigh its benefits (high confidence). Climate change will cause
significant changes in water use or the hydrological cycle, requiring adaptation in the
management of water resources. The clearest and probably most rewarding opportunities
to reduce adaptation costs lie in the water sector (Stern 2007).

80.     Climate change directly affects the water cycle and, through it, the quantity
and quality of water resources available to meet human and environmental
demands. Climate change can lead to an increase in the frequency and intensity of
floods and droughts. Rising sea levels have serious effects on coastal aquifers which are
a major source of water supply systems, and higher water temperatures and changes in
extremes can exacerbate many forms of water pollution. Water supply reliability, health,
agriculture, energy, and aquatic ecosystems will feel the impact of these changes to the
water cycle. The demand for water to satisfy such needs will also be affected. The
importance of water to sustainable social and economic development is not to be
underestimated (UNESCO 2009). The extent to which each water system will be affected
by climate change will depend on its degree of vulnerability (World Bank 2010c).

81.     The focus of climate change mitigation is primarily on the energy sector, but
the way in which we use and manage our water resources should become the focus
of adaptation (GWP 2007). There is global consensus that the supply and demand for
water resources will be substantially affected by climate change. These impacts will
change the way we plan for the resource. Water will have to be used more efficiently.
To do that, managers will need to think on a basin-wide scale and devise efficient and
flexible ways to allocate water among competing quantity and quality demands for
human use (such as energy, agriculture, fisheries, and urban consumption) and healthy
ecosystems (World Bank 2010a). At the Fourth World Water Forum held in Mexico City
in 2006, there was international consensus on the need for an approach to integrated
water resources management that addresses the challenges and uncertainties of climate
change (WWC 2006). Better water resources management will be essential if
communities are to adapt to the changes in the hydrological cycle. Any strategy must
include a combination of infrastructure investments with institutional strengthening that
goes beyond the traditional approach in the sector (De la Torre, Fajnzylber, and Nash
2009). The resilience of vulnerable populations must also be incorporated in any
planning framework for the sector (World Bank 2009).


                                            27
82.     IWRM is regarded as critical for sustainable outcomes, and increasingly
viewed as offering the best available framework for building the resilience needed to
adapt to climate change. Integrated water resources management enables: a) the
conservation of water through a more efficient allocation of the resource, b) the
resolution of conflicts among competing uses and users, c) the inclusion of the
accounting for social, economic and environmental value of water in decision making;
and d) increased participation of communities and the private sector in decision-making
and financing. IWRM attempts to break the mold of an engineering approach to water. In
the 1990s it became apparent that such an approach had several limitations, as expanding
demands on water resources were resulting in increased competition among water uses.
Water services could no longer be delivered without taking into account the availability
and quality of water resources (World Bank 2010b). Many strategies began to include a
broader integrated framework that links water resources with water use (water supply and
sanitation, irrigation and drainage, energy and environment) (Figure 3 illustrates this
definition and is referred to as the IWRM `comb'). This IWRM framework changed the
vision for the sector and provided the basis for moving away from a sector-based
investment focus to a multi-sectoral approach to planning (World Bank 2010b).

           Figure 3: The Integrated Water Resources Management Comb




83.      The incorporation of climate change adaptation in IWRM planning efforts
will require the strengthening of weather monitoring and forecasting tools. This will
provide better information to reduce uncertainty and give economic agents the tools
necessary to make informed decisions. Some of the tools that are most valuable to reduce
uncertainty include a historical climate database, weather monitoring instruments,
systems for analyzing climate data to determine patterns of intra-annual and seasonal
variability and extremes, and data on systems vulnerability and adaptation effectiveness
(De la Torre, Fajnzylber, and Nash 2009). Unfortunately, hydrometeorological systems
in many developing countries have deteriorated in the past few years. Coupled to this is
the need to improve capacity and institutional strength to equip the services with the
skills to incorporate climate information in the analysis.



                                          28
84.     Expected increases in temperature and reductions in rainfall will seriously
affect water resources and the hydrological cycle in Mexico. The Center for
Atmospheric Science of the Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) has constructed
the most likely scenarios using General Circulation Models (GCMs) principally from
mean temperature and rainfall variables. Practically all the models show an increase in
temperature, with highest warming in the north and northwest (arid regions) of Mexico.
These scenarios also show a large dispersion of projections of percentage variation in
rainfall, with states in the north of Mexico showing a significant percentage reduction in
rainfall (SEMARNAT and SHCP 2009).

85.      Mexico is particularly vulnerable to climate change because its impact
exacerbates the existing severe constraints in water resource management. Both
surface and ground water are heavily overexploited and contaminated in Mexico (Olson
and Saltiel 2006), because of the inefficient use of water in a context of water scarcity. In
1955, water availability in Mexico was 11,500 cubic meters (m3) per person per year. By
2005, this amount had decreased to 3,822m3 (CONAGUA 2008a). This decrease in
availability was caused primarily by reasons unrelated to climate, such as population
growth and economic development. Estimates based solely on population growth, show
that water availability will decrease further to 3,610m3 per person by 2012, 3,285m3 by
2030, and 3,260m3 by 2050. In addition, the persistence of inefficient agricultural
irrigation practices, the overexploitation of aquifers, and the inadequate treatment of
municipal and industrial wastewater will increase the vulnerability of water resources
(SEMARNAT 2009). Climate change impacts will only worsen current conditions.

86.    In Mexico, climate change may push the poor beyond their ability to cope,
particularly as a result of their lack of access to water resources. Policies should
focus on reducing vulnerability and variability by enhancing good governance and
technical capacity at the national level on key issues (World Bank 2010b).

87.     Policy and institutional frameworks to address the water crisis must
incorporate IWRM principles and the necessary financing instruments and
normative frameworks to provide incentives to mainstream adaptation to climate
change in the water sector. Mexico faces a number of challenges, including the need to
address the overexploitation of water resources, as more than 50 percent of the
groundwater used in the country comes from overexploited aquifers, a situation that is not
sustainable in the long run. There is a need to review policies and subsidies in terms of
their long-term impact and to revise them to support sustainable water resource
management (World Bank 2006). Improving coverage, quality and efficiency in the
sector requires greater efficiency in expenditures linked to institutional strengthening as
well as to maintenance and rehabilitation, better targeted subsidies, and improved
transparency and accountability (World Bank 2005).

LESSONS LEARNED

88.   The proposed Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL builds
on and benefits from the Bank's long collaboration with SEMARNAT, CONAGUA,
and other federal, state and municipal line ministries and specialized agencies with

                                             29
responsibility for Mexico's environmental sustainability and climate change agendas. In
particular, the policy content and priorities reflect relevant findings of the Bank's
extensive body of analytical work in Mexico and the broader scientific literature on water
sector adaptation to climate change. These analytical underpinnings were described
above. The design of the operation incorporates specific lessons learned from the
implementation of previous Bank-supported environment and climate change lending
operations in Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America and the Caribbean. Chief among
these are the Programmatic Environmental Structural Adjustment Loan (P074539), the
Second Programmatic Environment Development Policy Loan (P079748), the Climate
Change DPL (P110849), and the Environmental Sustainability DPL (P095510). Also
informing the design of this operation were the lessons learned about climate change
adaptation and water sector issues in Mexico through the implementation of a range of
investment operations (see earlier in this section for details of such operations).32

89.     Listed below are some of the lessons that result from the Bank's experience:
                The operation's policy content and prior actions should reflect the
        Borrower's own program and priorities developed with the benefit of a national
        policymaking process that involves a process of broad public consultation. This
        is essential to the Borrower's ownership of the program and stakeholder support
        for it. Mexico's PECC is a key part of the National Development Plan, which
        was widely consulted in accordance with participatory processes established in
        Mexico's Planning, Transparency and Access to Information legislation as well as
        other laws (see Annex 6 for details). The National Water Program (PNH) sets
        forth the water policy framework for Mexico and provides the framework for this
        operation's policy content. The Bank has added value to the program through its
        extensive collaborative lending and non-lending engagement with the government
        on water sector and climate change issues, as described above.

                Prior actions should be limited to a few key policy and institutional
        reforms. Without such a focus, implementation by the Borrower and supervision
        by the Bank risk losing sight of the operation's priorities. This operation has
        seven prior actions distributed between two broad policy and institutional areas:
        strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in IWRM, and
        mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs. The government
        and the Bank have agreed that these actions are essential to achieving the
        program's anticipated outcomes.

                The operation's outcomes should also reflect the Borrower's program
        objectives and monitoring capacity and, like the prior actions, should be limited
        to a few key, measurable indicators. This operation's outcomes are laid out in the
        policy and results matrix in Chapter VI.          The outcomes represent the


32
  Key investment lending operations include the: (i) Irrigation and Drainage Sector Loan (P007667); (ii)
On-Farm Irrigation Improvement Project (P007701; (iii) Integrated Irrigation Modernization Project
(P035752); and (iv) Modernization of the Water and Sanitation Sector Technical Assistance Project
(P091695).

                                                  30
       government's own objectives, as specified in the PNH and Fourth
       Communication to the UNFCCC. In some cases, progress towards and
       achievement of the outcomes will require subjective judgments, which will be
       formed in the course of on-going engagement with SEMARNAT, CONAGUA,
       and CONAFOR. Other outcomes can be objectively measured by comparing
       them to baseline levels that the government has already established through its
       own monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system.

               The Bank's on-going collaboration and engagement with the Borrower
       through analytical and advisory services are necessary to continue adding value
       to the program. The TAP between CONAGUA and the Bank will provide the
       framework for this. The TAP, which is currently being finalized, envisions,
       among other activities: (a) capacity building for CONAGUA on climate change
       related topics; (b) strengthening of the water sector financing system (sistema
       financiero del agua); (c) support to CONAGUA throughout the COP 16
       preparation process and during the COP 16; and (d) training activities. For more
       details on this TAP see Annex 11.

               Arrangements for intersectoral coordination are important to successful
       program implementation: SEMARNAT will play the overall coordinating role. It
       is the Ministry responsible for overseeing the PECC's implementation and for
       preparing Mexico's Communications to UNFCCC, which describe actions taken
       and/or to be taken by CONAGUA, CONAFOR, and other ministries and agencies
       to contribute to climate change adaptation. While CONAGUA and CONAFOR
       enjoy considerable autonomy, they come under SEMARNAT's overall policy
       direction.

90.     Many of the above lessons also reflect the conclusions and recommendations that
emerged from the August 2009 Development Policy Lending Retrospective. This is
further illustrated in Box 4.




                                          31
Box 4: DPL Good Practices and the Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water
                     Sector Development Policy Loan

   Principle 1 ­ Reinforce ownership. The proposed operation is built around the
    experience gained by the Mexican government through implementation of the water
    sector program as well as exemplary climate change programs and activities, including
    a comprehensive National Climate Change Strategy and the related Special Program
    for the Climate Change (PECC). Much progress has been achieved in these areas since
    the National Development Plan was prepared. The design of the associated sector
    programs has benefitted from Mexican as well as international experience. In the PND,
    PNH, PNI and PECC the government has set ambitious goals for adaptation to climate
    change in the water sector and it is precisely the achievement of those goals that this
    DPL will support. The Bank's participation will provide external validation and
    technical support to the on-going processes. The Bank facilitates continued political
    support as municipal, state and federal administrations change. The policy matrix will
    become an instrument to monitor progress.
   Principle 2 ­ Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on
   a coordinated accountability framework. The proposed operation builds upon the
   government's existing water sector program and its climate change policies, focusing
   on a select number of central actions, impacts and results in the design of the Program.
   The Bank's support is summarized in a brief and focused policy matrix that was agreed
   to with the government of Mexico. The matrix provides the accountability framework
   for the operation and contains a clear basis for measuring progress since its design is
   based on the targets set by the current Administration. To avoid ambiguity, the
   quantitative and qualitative dimensions of the policy actions to be completed at each
   stage of the series are well defined.

   Principle 3 ­ Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank
   support to country circumstances. The Bank's support is built around the reform's
   own timetable with a matrix that was developed in close collaboration with the federal
   government after extensive consultations with stakeholders. The monitoring indicators
   are drawn directly from those the government is using to assess the success of its
   interventions. Mexico has strong analytical capacity and the Bank will focus on
   complementing this capacity in strategic areas.
   Principle 4 ­ Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for
    disbursement. The matrix has been limited to the minimum size to maintain the
    coherence of the policy dialogue, including clear definition of prior actions, outcomes
    and indicators. The Bank has worked with the government to focus on actions that are
    central to the main thrust of the reform, including the definitions of standards,
    assessment, and accountability.
   Principle 5 ­ Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable
    performance based financial support. During the implementation period the Bank
    will carefully monitor advances and provide technical support, in particular, on the
    basis of a set of activities included under a TAP agreed upon with CONAGUA.




                                           32
        V.    THE PROPOSED FRAMEWORK FOR ADAPTATION TO
                CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE WATER SECTOR DPL

OPERATION DESCRIPTION

91.    This DPL will support the GOM's efforts to ensure adaptation to climate
change in the water sector, contributing to long-term sustainable growth and
protecting the most vulnerable populations. Reduced water availability and poor
water quality are two of the main factors affecting future growth and development in
Mexico. Key to addressing core development challenges is the enactment of measures to
adapt to climate change whose aim is ensuring proper water resources management
through appropriate regulations, norms, institutional reforms, and financial mechanisms.
The proposed operation comprises two policy areas that are detailed below. They are: (a)
Strengthening the Institutional Framework and Monitoring Capacity in Integrated Water
Resources Management; and (b) Establishing the Normative and Financial Framework to
Mainstream Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Programs.

92.     The objective of the proposed operation is to support the government's
efforts aimed at strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity
in integrated water resources management as well as mainstreaming adaptation to
climate change in water programs. The proposed DPL supports the government's
policy commitment to adaptation to climate change in the water sector, including the
allocation of institutional, normative and financial resources and strengthening of
monitoring and evaluation capacity.

93.     The prior actions established below capture the two-level nature of the
government's program and the Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector
DPL (see Box 5). This is achieved first by recognizing the importance of the over-
arching framework established through the GOM's policy and institutional framework in
Integrated Water Resources Management (including its climate change adaptation agenda
in the sector), and second by setting up the required norms, operating rules and financial
instruments that provide the necessary instrument to ensure the proper implementation of
the institutional and policy framework. These prior actions, taken as a whole, put Mexico
on the path to achieving its ambitious climate change agenda with regard to adaptation in
the water sector.




                                           33
      Box 5: Overview of Proposed Operation's Components and Prior Actions

 The government has agreed upon and implemented the following prior actions:
 Policy Area 1: Strengthening the Institutional Framework and Monitoring Capacity in
 Integrated Water Resources Management
   1. Mexico has strengthened its commitment to climate change in the water sector by
      submitting the Fourth Communication to the UNFCCC.
   2. CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for IWRM by delegating
      increased responsibility to 18 River Basin Councils to oversee, plan and manage projects
      and programs established in Watershed Management Plans.
   3. CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for IWRM by setting up two
      water banks in order to foster the sustainable management and efficient administration
      of water resources.
 Policy Area 2: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Programs
   1. CONAGUA has issued two norms to provide regulatory instruments to promote the
      conservation of groundwater resources.
   2. CONAGUA has incorporated in the Wastewater Treatment Funding Program (Fondos
      Concursables) criteria promoting the recharge of aquifers and water reuse for
      conservation of groundwater resources.
   3. CONAFOR has issued operating rules for the Special Program for the Conservation
      and Protection of Microwatersheds in priority areas to promote reduction of soil
      erosion, reforestation and forest protection.
   4. CONAGUA has strengthened the protection of overexploited aquifers by means of its
      programs to improve the water productivity of irrigation.


KEY POLICY AREAS

Policy Area 1: Strengthening the Institutional Framework and Monitoring Capacity in
Integrated Water Resources Management

94.     Objective: Strengthen institutions, regulations and monitoring capacity to foster
an integrated and sustainable management of the country's water resources.

95.     Context and Policy Area Description. Water issues are both complex and very
important in Mexico because they are at the junction of economic development, public
finance, infrastructure investment, environmental sustainability, climate change, and
social justice. Decisions about water management and investment actions have a lasting
physical impact on what happens with water, as well as major social impacts. The
scarcity of water in many parts of the country means that sometimes more water for one
sector results in less water (and a different development path) in another sector, as well as
less water for environmental needs. Strategies with a broad integrated framework linking
water resources with water use (water supply and sanitation, irrigation and drainage,
energy and the environment) are considered best practice in the sector and provide the
basis for moving away from a sector-based investment focus to a multi-sectoral approach
to planning (World Bank 2010b). IWRM is regarded as critical for sustainable outcomes,
and increasingly viewed as offering the best available framework for building the

                                              34
resilience needed to adapt to climate change (World Bank 2010b). IWRM enables: a) the
conservation of water through a more efficient allocation of the resource; b) the
resolution of conflicts among competing uses and users; c) the inclusion of the
accounting for the social, economic and environmental value of water; and d) the
increased participation of communities and the private sector in decision-making and
financing.

96.     Challenge: There are many challenges associated with promoting sustainable and
integrated water resources management. At the institutional level, the management of
water resources is very complex because there are several sectors that are users of the
resource (water supply and sanitation, irrigation, environment, energy, etc). IWRM
principles require a coordinated institutional arrangement that includes federal, state and
municipal entities. It also requires the participation of communities, users and the private
sector in decision-making and in the implementation of programs and projects.
Furthermore, the proper application of IWRM principles implies the decentralization of
decision-making and management responsibilities to basin-centered institutions.

97.     Prior Actions: Three important prior actions have been completed: (1) Mexico
has strengthened its commitment to climate change in the water sector by submitting the
Fourth Communication to the UNFCCC. The Communication underlines the importance
of adaptation in water resources at the national and local level in order to reduce
vulnerability in all areas of people's lives, including economic activities and natural
resources. The Communication stresses the GOM's commitment to continue
strengthening the technical capacity to analyze and manage meteorological information;
develop new tools for decision-making under uncertainty; and promote the participation
of civil society in the development and evaluation of strategies and programs for the
sector.

98.    (2) CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for IWRM by
delegating increased responsibility to 18 River Basin Councils to oversee, plan and
manage projects and programs defined in the Watershed Management Plans. The main
function of the RBCs is to review and provide input to activities to improve water
resources management and to develop water infrastructure in their respective basins.
RBCs are key stakeholders in the sector because they include state and municipal
representatives, users, civil society and nongovernmental organizations. RBCs serve
mainly as advisory bodies, providing their members with information and a voice on key
issues such as: promoting priorities for investment, water valuation to estimate
contribution amounts, and technical assessment of water availability. The Councils
advise on annual water allocation, pollution control, water efficiency and basin protection
programs as well as the Master Water Plan and its programs. They can also help to
resolve conflicts by developing consensus among various parties involved and
recommending actions to CONAGUA.

99.     (3) CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for IWRM by setting
up 2 water banks in order to foster the sustainable management and efficient
administration of water resources. The Mexican Constitution sanctions the importance
of institutions in charge of managing regulated operations for exchanges of water rights

                                            35
by allowing the creation of water banks (Art. 37 bis). Water banks have proved effective
particularly in basins and regions where water has become scarce as a direct consequence
of increasing water demand and productivity. CONAGUA further defined the role and
functions of water banks through internal regulations33 to foster the sustainable
management and efficient administration of water resources.

Policy Area 2: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Programs

100. Objective: To mainstream adaptation to climate change by reforming financing
mechanisms and normative and regulatory frameworks in the water sector.

101. Context and Policy Area Description. Mexico's water policy framework for the
period 2007-2012 is set forth in the PNH, which establishes objectives, strategies and
goals for the sustainable use of water (including agricultural water management, water
supply and sanitation, and water resources management), while at the same time
recognizing its strategic value and fostering environmental protection. PNH also
addresses climate change in the water sector (objective #7). In this context, Policy Area
2 focuses on the development and adoption of a sectoral normative framework and
financial mechanisms supporting adaptation to climate change activities in water resource
management; agricultural water management; sustainable use and conservation of water,
including wastewater treatment and reuse; and efficiency improvements for water
utilities.

102. Challenge: The challenges associated with mainstreaming adaptation to climate
change in the water sector in Mexico are many. At the policy level, the main challenge
consists in ensuring that sustainable planning frameworks incorporate the climate change
impacts and mitigation as well as adaptation measures. This implies a need to strengthen
existing federal programs and norms by incorporating a set of financial incentives that
explicitly address adaptation in the design and implementation of those programs and
norms.

103. Prior Actions: Four policy actions have been completed: (1) CONAGUA has
issued two norms to provide regulatory instruments to promote the conservation of
groundwater resources. The protection of groundwater resources is one of the main `no
regrets'34 activities that can be undertaken. The conservation of aquifers provides an
intergenerational mechanism to ensure the sustainability of resources. The first of the
two norms (014) regulates requirements for the recharge of aquifers with treated water
including required water quality, operation and monitoring of the recharge systems. The
second norm (015) regulates artificial recharge from rainwater and drainage in projects
with a flow of at least 60 liters/second and includes the technical requirements to execute
these activities. Artificial recharge is a technology applied for different purposes,
including to mitigate the effects of overexploitation (such as lower water levels and saline


33
    Subdirección General de Administración del Agua (SGAA) art. 24 and Gerencia de Regulación de
Transmisión de Derechos, Bancos del Agua y Control de Información (GRTDBACI) art. 29.
34
   In the Bank's accepted definition, "no regrets"adaptation measures are options that would be justified
under all plausible future scenarios, including the absence of man made climate change.

                                                   36
intrusion), as a natural treatment in the subsoil, and to manage aquifers as storage areas
and natural aqueducts.

104. (2) CONAGUA has incorporated in the Wastewater Treatment Funding Program
(Fondos Concursables) criteria promoting the recharge of aquifers and water reuse for
the conservation of groundwater resources. CONAGUA's water infrastructure funding
programs provide incentives to optimize water resources, while increasing coverage,
efficiency, reuse, and the quality of water services (irrigation, drinking water, and
sanitation). The Wastewater Treatment Funding Program (Programa Fondos
Concursables para Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales) has been chosen because it
provides financial incentives to those projects that favor climate change adaptation
actions, such as the reuse of treated effluent (the higher the percentage of wastewater
reused the higher the amount of funding it provides) and protection for the most
vulnerable populations. Operation and maintenance costs are partly funded through
payments based on volume of wastewater treated to pre-defined quality standards.

105. (3) CONAFOR has issued operating rules for the Special Program for the
Conservation and Protection of Micro-Watersheds (SPRMPA) in priority areas to
promote the reduction of soil erosion, reforestation, and forest protection35. IWRM goes
beyond the water sector. Activities to promote land use planning, reduced soil erosion,
and protection of ecosystems are all part of IWRM. SPRMPA was established to recover
degraded areas as a means to mitigate the effects of climate change; recover natural
vegetation; control soil erosion and sedimentation from rivers, dams, and canals; and
promote the natural recharge of aquifers as well as improvements in water quality. The
program promotes soil conservation and reforestation activities. While guidelines for
SPRMPA refer to a possible national program, in its preliminary phase it is focused on
the Cutzamala watershed, including parts of the states of Mexico, Michoacán and the
Federal District, an area that is politically, institutionally and socially complex. The
resources allocated in 2009, which totaled approximately MX$120 million, demonstrate
the importance and priority that the federal government has placed on this program. The
program has several notable elements. First, the emphasis on planning and implementing
conservation measures within a specific microwatershed is critical for water resource
management. Second, in addition to incorporating most conservation activities included
in the national PROARBOL program, SPRMPA includes an innovative payment to offset
the opportunity costs associated with forgoing forest conversion. Lastly, the program has
the potential to leverage substantial additional resources which could result in important
improvements in sustainable watershed management.

106.   (4) CONAGUA has strengthened the protection of overexploited aquifers by means of its
programs to improve the water productivity of irrigation. The agricultural sector is the main
user of water (77 percent). As a result, effective water policy must include measures to
reduce the demand for water in agriculture, improve the efficiency of irrigation systems,
and increase the adoption of water-saving technologies. CONAGUA has three federal


35
  Programa Especial para la Restauracion de las Microcuencas en Zonas Prioritarias; SPRMPA,
established in July 2009.

                                                37
programs targeting the agricultural sector, one of which, the Program for Modernization
and Technology Upgrade of Irrigation Units (PMTUR), is particularly relevant to this
operation. The PMTUR's main objective is to improve water productivity in irrigation
systems by funding agricultural producers. In 2009, the operating rules incorporated new
criteria prioritizing activities that improve the sustainability of the resource. The main
additions are: a) giving priority to those projects in which users give back to CONAGUA
more than 20 percent of their concession for water use; b) projects to decrease the use of
water from overexploited aquifers; and c) projects that promote agricultural activities
with low water consumption.




                                           38
               VI.        OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

107. Overall, the Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL is
expected to have a significant positive impact on the country's poor and vulnerable
communities. During preparation, the Bank reviewed recent poverty and social impact
studies in the water sector in Mexico. Those studies helped to identify the expected
impacts that the policies supported by this DPL could have on different social groups.36
Further work on a full Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) of selected policies
will be carried out by Bank staff with government counterparts during program
implementation.

108. The policies and reforms supported by this operation encompass adaptation
measures aimed at improving water availability and water quality whose social
impacts vary across regions. Broadly speaking, poor farmers located in the semi-arid
and arid central and northern parts of the country will benefit more from measures aimed
at improving water availability through watershed management, aquifer recharge, and
water efficiency and savings. Measures aimed at improving water quality are likely to
produce larger benefits for (a) poor people in the southern states, where the largest
infrastructure gaps remain; (b) persons living in slums that lack piped water or sanitation;
and (c) persons living in areas at risk of extreme weather events, such as coastal areas,
unstable slopes, and flood plains.

The Social Impacts of Water Scarcity

109. Water scarcity and the unsustainable use of water threaten development and
poverty reduction in Mexico (World Bank, 2009). Vulnerabilities observed in many
sub-regions of the country will be increased by the growing demand for water and
irrigation resulting from increasing population, and the drier conditions anticipated in
many water basins due to climate change. In addition, the attendant risks of water
scarcity are losses in economic livelihoods, migration, and social conflict. When existing
and future water problems are further aggravated by climate change and variability, the
result will very likely be an increase in these risks, especially affecting the poor.

110. Economic impacts of aquifer depletion on the poor. Fieldwork conducted for
the PSIA (WB 2009) showed that groundwater overexploitation affects poor people first
because they are most likely to use relatively shallow wells, which are the first to dry up
when water tables fall. The study noted that poorer farmers tend to have smaller and
weaker pumps that make access difficult and expensive. Farmers in several of the
fieldwork locations reported that their pumps had broken when water levels in aquifers



36
   Bank studies included the "PSIA for Groundwater Over-exploitation in Mexico" (2009) and the
"Climate Change with a Human Face in Mexico" (2010). Non-bank studies included SEMARNAT (2009):
The Social Impacts of Climate Change.

                                              39
fell. Typically, these farmers did not have the funds to upgrade or repair their pumps,
leaving them without access to groundwater, and the consequent decrease in production.

111. Migration. The PSIA also found that a rise in production costs due to
groundwater depletion had forced a number of farmers to abandon or considerably reduce
their productive activities, adding to the migration to urban centers in Mexico as well as
to the United States. According to a forthcoming World Bank study on the social
implications of climate change (2010), migration rates are significantly related to average
annual rainfall, being highest in municipalities with very little rain. Most migrants move
from degraded areas to main cities, and to provincial, state capitals or national capitals, or
go abroad (Morales 2008). In general, it is predicted that climate change will lead to
greater migration to urban centers, but will not dramatically alter migration rates from
Mexico to the United States (SICC 2010).

112. Social conflicts. Both collapsing aquifers and climate-related migration can be an
important source of social conflict. Figure 4 shows that many of the areas with aquifer
overexploitation have experienced high levels of water related social conflicts (Becerra-
Paez, Saínz-Santamaría, and Muñoz-Piña 2006). Several studies have shown that
migration to urban centers, whether caused by water shortages or in the wake of natural
disasters due to a changing climate are a stress factor that can contribute to conflict.
Increased social conflict in areas receiving migrants results from increased competition
for resources and high unemployment as well as from increased criminal activity from
people seeking sources of income. In addition, migrants without social networks in place
face the risk of social isolation and may be discriminated against.

     Figure 4: Aquifer Overexploitation and Very High to Very Low Social
                             Conflicts, 1990-2005




                                             40
113. Extreme weather events will compound water scarcity problems, particularly
in coastal areas. Both rising sea levels and coastal flooding could dramatically reduce
the availability of freshwater for many areas with large coastal populations as saltwater
intrudes into aquifers (24 percent of Mexico's population lives in coastal zones, Miller
2006). To the extent that this means bringing in water from elsewhere or desalinating the
water available, the cost of water will increase. The cost of water is regressive and
affects the poor the most. Those who cannot afford the higher cost of water and have to
rely on brackish water will suffer the associated health impacts, such as increased risks of
hypertension and miscarriages.

The Social Impacts of Water Scarcity Adaptation Measures

114. Both the PECC and the Fourth Communication emphasize the need for
water adaptation measures that take into account the situation of the most
vulnerable groups. The PECC explicitly states that "an examination from a human
rights point-of-view of vulnerability and adaptive capacity highlights the importance of
examining the underlying causes of inequality and discrimination and paying special
attention to society's marginalized and vulnerable". The Fourth Communication
promotes cross-sectoral adaptation measures to combat the adverse impacts of climate
change in Mexico, including adequate watershed management, aquifer recharge, and
other mechanisms for sustainable water resource management.

115. Reforms aimed at strengthening IWRM are likely to have a positive impact
on poor and vulnerable populations, especially if poor producers participate in
water governance structures. Integrated approaches to water resource management are
needed because both water scarcity and the impacts of climate change and variability on
water resources tend to be local. These approaches should be tailored to local
circumstances and give water users a voice in decision making, particularly marginalized
groups whose livelihoods are affected the hardest by climate change. Empowering RBCs
to manage water resources at the river basin level is the type of approach required to
enable poor farmers to participate in watershed management. While RBCs have a
participatory structure, in practice, overall participation has been low and skewed to
wealthier farmers (PSIA 2009). Elections for both the COTAS and the RBCs are not
sufficiently advertised in poor communities. In the dialogue with CONAGUA the Bank
has stressed the importance of strengthening its communication and awareness campaigns
to target poor producers, using structures such as ejidos, community radios and other
local media that are more likely to reach poor producers.

116.   Water banks are likely to have positive social impacts:

               Water banks can benefit small and informal water basin resource users by
       explicitly transferring rights to them so that they can use water efficiently.
       Because water banks provide a clear definition of water rights in a given basin,
       social participation of communities and poor people living in the area of the basin
       could be enhanced. This can improve the environmental quality of the water basin



                                            41
       and promote the inclusion of community-based sustainable practices among the
       population that depend on the basin's resources.

              Water banks may improve the equitable exploitation of water resources.
       The valuation of water in many basins and watersheds is quite low. As a result,
       businesses and households that can more easily afford it have a tendency to
       overuse or waste water. Thus, economically disadvantaged populations are left
       without adequate access to water and to bear the brunt of environmental
       reconversion. The explicit recognition of rights and the dissemination of
       transparent information for water use can increase equity in the use of the basin's
       resources. This will establish an unprecedented consensus for water transfer
       mechanisms and prices in many regions where socioeconomic inequality is high.

               One of the main social risks is the lack of adequate incentives to include
      the poor in the water bank. This risk is associated with the design of the program
      itself. A PSIA of the incentive structure of existing water banks will be carried out
      during implementation.

117. Efforts to promote the reduction of soil erosion, reforestation and forest
protection through SPRMPA are likely to have positive impacts on the poor. As
Figure 5 shows, extreme poverty has a positive correlation with soil degradation in rural
and urban municipalities. The program will not have an adverse impact on people's
ability to earn a livelihood because it will not include land expropriation measures.
Moreover, land that is currently subject to informal use will be excluded from the
program.

Figure 5: Extreme Poverty and Soil Degradation in Rural and Urban Municipalities




118. The norms and program operating rules aimed at recharging or conserving
groundwater resources are likely to have a positive impact on the poor. As

                                           42
mentioned earlier, a recent PSIA found that poor farmers are the first to suffer from
groundwater overexploitation. This DPL includes multiple prior actions that are likely to
alleviate this problem, including: NOM 014 (artificial recharge of aquifers with
wastewater) and NOM 015 (artificial recharge of aquifers with rainwater); new criteria in
the Wastewater Treatment Funding Program (WTFP) promoting the recharge of aquifers
and water re-use for conservation of groundwater resources; and new rules for PMTUR
in order to protect overexploited aquifers.

119. The distributional impacts of operational rules not related to adaptation for
water infrastructure programs are likely to be mixed. The PMTUR, for instance, is
aimed at small farmers and ejidatarios. It has pro-poor ranking criteria that give extra
weight to beneficiaries with higher levels of marginality. Within this target group,
however, the 2009 PSIA37 found that better-off farmers tended to have easier access to
government programs and thus received a disproportionate share of financial resources
for irrigation. The most important barrier for poorer farmers was the 50 percent co-
financing requirement and the retroactive payment of the government's share. Poorer
farmers who lacked the resources and cash flow to finance all or even part of the
investment would, therefore, be excluded of this program. In some cases, this was
partially mitigated when state entities provided farmers with all or part of their required
contribution.

120. Improving water availability and reducing inefficiencies in service provision
will have important social benefits at the household level. Large cities suffer
permanent water shortages because of poor infrastructure, which translates into unreliable
services (Olson and Saltiel, 2006). As a consequence, households pay between US$0.25
and US$0.35 per 1,000 liters of water to the owners of private water pipes to gain access
to the resource. Average social lifetime gains from improving water availability are
approximately MX$9,382 (US$833).38 These social gains result also from the
redistribution of benefits across households, particularly those with a high marginal
utility of consumption (poorest and with least access).

Water Quality and the Potential Impact of Adaptation Measures

121. Policy reforms aimed at improving water quality and sanitation will
strengthen the resilience and adaptive capacity of the poor against increases in
water-related infectious diseases, which are expected to take place due to climate
change. Increases in temperature and rainfall related to climate change, in turn, will
increase vector-borne infectious diseases (malaria and dengue) and waterborne diarrheal
diseases. Lack of access to water and sanitation services or poor water quality make the
poor more vulnerable to these diseases. Evidence of these impacts and the transmission
mechanisms include the following:



37
  The PSIA was done before the merger of two programs (uso pleno and uso eficiente) under the PMTUR
38
  See Baisa et. al. (2010) The Welfare Costs of Unreliable Water Service. Journal of Development
Economics. Vol 92, (1-12)

                                                43
                Climate change is likely to expand the geographical range and lengthen
        the transmission season of malaria and dengue in Mexico, where the number of
        cases of these illnesses has increased in endemic areas. According to Mexico's
        Third Communication, it is very probable that heavy rains and the increase in
        temperatures are partly responsible for this increase (SEMARNAT, 2007). The
        number of dengue fever cases in Mexico has increased by 600 percent since 2001
        (AP, 2007).

                Diarrheal diseases are also likely to rise as a result of increased
        temperatures and the chaotic conditions following more extreme natural disasters.
        In Chiapas and Puebla, an increase in the ambient temperature of one degree
        Centigrade produces an average increase in morbidity from acute diarrheal illness
        of 1.07 percent (Inter-Ministerial Commission on Climate Change, 2007).

                The provision of water and sanitation services is a critical factor in the
        prevalence of infectious diseases. The mosquitoes carrying the malaria and
        dengue viruses thrive in the containers that are typically used in slums for storing
        water, putting slum dwellers at greater risk than people living in areas with piped
        water. Lack of safe drinking water and sanitation makes good hygiene difficult,
        increasing the risks of diarrheal diseases.

               Indigenous peoples are particularly susceptible to infectious diseases
        because of their relatively poorer nutrition, lack of food and lack of access to
        water and sanitation infrastructure. Unfamiliar and stronger strains of diseases
        cannot be cured or prevented with traditional methods, while unpredictable
        changes in the agricultural calendar caused by climate change and variability
        create difficulties for elders, shamans, and healers by disrupting their ability to
        grow the plants needed for medicinal and ceremonial purposes. (World Bank
        2010).

                Finally, reforms aimed at reducing water pollution should also have a
        positive impact on the health of the poor because they tend be concentrated along
        water drains and riverbanks, and are therefore more exposed to water pollution.

122. CONAGUA's main programs aim at improving access to water and
sanitation for poor people in urban and rural areas (e.g. APAZU, PROSSAPYS,
PAL, Wastewater Treatment Funding Program). Since 2009, the Drinking Water and
Sewerage in Urban Areas Program (Programa de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado en
Zonas Urbanas, APAZU) has introduced pro-poor changes in its operational rules.39 For
example, the concept of poor/marginal populations was included by providing 20 percent
additional funding to projects that make available sewerage to people not connected to
the system (most likely marginal populations). In 2010, assistance to poor/marginal


39
  This has come partly in response to evaluations from CONEVAL (See CONEVAL. 2008. Informe de la
Evaluación Específica del Desempeño: Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento en Zonas
Urbanas de la CONAGUA.)

                                                44
populations was further increased by providing 10 percent additional funding for those in
the high to very high poverty ranges and up to 100 percent funding for populations with
the lowest human development index (per the Ministry of Social Development,
Secretaría de Desarrollo Social, SEDESOL) in areas where water coverage is less than
40 percent. Furthermore, the co-financing rates were modified to favor smaller localities,
which tend to be the poorest. Instead of the previous uniform 20 percent co-financing
rate, in 2010 CONAGUA introduced an adjustable rate that provides the highest co-
financing to the least populated localities and decreases proportionately as the size of the
locality increases. This is likely to have positive equity effects because small
communities have lower tax bases and less access to state and municipal funds, and also
tend to be the poorest.

123. CONAGUA has developed a comprehensive participatory framework for its
water and sanitation programs aiming at fostering users' involvement in the decision-
making and monitoring of different aspects of water management (see Annex 5 for a
detailed description). The agency has set up various participation mechanisms, including
collegial entities such as RBCs at the macro-regional level, basin commissions and
committees at the sub-basin and micro-regional level, as well as Technical Groundwater
Committees for aquifers and Clean Beach Committees in coastal zones. As previously
noted, however participation by poor and vulnerable communities in these structures
remains low. The majority of CONAGUA's programs and rules of operation place
emphasis on providing services to poor and vulnerable populations.

ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

124. The program is likely to have significant positive effects on the environment
and natural resources. The project will play an important role in reducing the negative
environmental effects of climate change to contribute to the sustainability of water
resources management in Mexico. The policy actions that comprise the DPL are
expected to have positive impacts, particularly as they relate to the country's
environment, natural resources and habitats, by both reducing the current impact of water
extraction for human activities and setting the stage for better adaptation to future climate
change. The reforms adopted in the water programs and norms will contribute to
increasing water use efficiency, promoting water conservation and reducing water
pollution, with clear positive environmental impacts.

125. The implementation of the IWRM approach supported by this DPL will
foster the integration of environmental and social considerations in the planning
and design of water projects and activities. The institutional strengthening activities
will enable CONAGUA to achieve the sustainability and adaptation goals established in
the PECC, which includes a detailed plan for addressing water issues related to climate
change. The program's main objectives are to reduce Mexico's vulnerability to climate
change by retrofitting water infrastructure and providing incentives for making it
adaptation-friendly, strengthening the capacity of strategic institutions to address
adaptation, and improving the quality of services and research and technology.



                                             45
126. The provisions of OP 8.60 on Development Policy Lending apply to the
Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL. The program plays an
important role in helping to mainstream environmental considerations in a key sector
(water) as well as in Mexico's overall approach to development. Since the justification
for the operation itself is to provide support to the government in its efforts to mainstream
climate change and environmental considerations into the water sector, the operation's
design is proactive with respect to internalizing environmental concerns. This occurs at
specific levels. At the sectoral level, policy reforms in the water sector support the
integration of environmental concerns by helping to increase efficient water use and
reduce waste, contributing to the sustainable management of natural resources. Other
positive effects on the environment are expected to derive from improved environmental
management at the national and local (basin, watersheds) level, on which the program
places particular emphasis by promoting improved transparency and community
participation.

127. OECD has produced two Environmental Assessments for Mexico (1997, 2003).
The major shortcomings identified in the Legal/Institutional Framework relate to two
aspects: Reporting and Access to Information. It has been common practice in previous
projects to request that the executing agency (CONAGUA) provides a work-program to
SEMARNAT in order to cross check that reporting functions are properly executed. With
regards to Public Information/Consultation, CONAGUA has already invited the civil
society to public meetings in order to present its projects and operations (starting with
PMIR in 2005) and their Environment and Social Frameworks. This led, among other
things, to an ongoing collaboration of CONAGUA with World Wildlife Fund in the
preparation/consultation of the Norm for Ecological Flows.

128. The implementing agencies (SEMARNAT and CONAGUA) have made real
strides on indicators of environmental compliance and enforcement, including
practical applications, revisions and improvements and currently are deemed to
have a good framework in place. Over time CONAGUA has developed specific
guidelines and operational manuals to guarantee compliance with federal environmental
legislation in Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) 40. The World Bank has produced
Environmental Capacity Assessments during the preparation of previous operations in
Mexico (such as for the Natural Disaster Fund project or Fonden and for the PMIR) and
results have highlighted that CONAGUA has institutional arrangements with capacity for
screening and supervision of potential environmental effects and mitigation measures.
The team recommends that environmental standards and procedures are followed for any
activity and / or incentive supported by the DPL. Additionally, it will be particularly
important to ensure that institutional capacity is strengthened at the de-concentrated level,
especially as more monitoring and executing functions are passed on to the river basin
organizations.




40
     CONAGUA (2002) Manual de Procedimientos en Materia de Impacto Ambiental

                                                46
IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

129. The proposed program is undertaken to support the GOM's national
strategies and plans in water sector and climate change adaptation. Thus,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation align with the GOM's own strategy,
objectives and processes. The National Development Plan 2007-2012 establishes
objectives and strategies (to be fulfilled by the end of the current Administration in
2012), which are implemented by means of a set of Sectoral Programs 2007-2012. The
water sector commitments of the PND are thus in line with the Environmental and
Natural Resources Sectoral Program (Programa de Medio Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales), implemented by SEMARNAT; the PNI implemented by the federal
government through CONAGUA in agreement with the Mexican Chamber for
Construction;41 the PNH implemented by CONAGUA; and the PECC implemented by
the CICC.

130. In an effort to synthesize large amounts of information, this operation
proposes a streamlined monitoring and evaluation framework, which will help the
GOM and the Bank assess progress towards the successful implementation of the
operation within the implementation timeframe, which extends to the end of the
current Administration. The evaluation of the program will be facilitated by the
overlap with the end of the Administration period, as progress will be assessed at that
point to take stock of the results achieved by the current government. CONAGUA will be
responsible for the implementation of the proposed components and for reporting
progress. SEMARNAT will provide additional information relating to implementation of
the PECC.

131. The proposed monitoring framework for this operation includes 17
monitoring indicators and corresponding expected outcomes, which can be
considered strategic milestones in assessing progress in implementation of the DPL.
The Bank will monitor actions taken to achieve these outcomes and review progress in
the implementation of the DPL, as well as subsequent government actions, through the
closing of the loan, which is going to be December 31, 2012. In compliance with the
Planning Law (Ley de Planeación, Art. 6) the federal government has to produce
progress reports on the implementation of the National Development Plan to inform the
Congress.42 The PND progress report provides information on the actions undertaken for
the completion of the Plan's objectives and strategies within the five basic policy pillars.
Thus, it will be the crucial instrument used by this DPL to monitor progress in all policy
areas.



41
  Agreement celebrated between the Parties on the 26th of June 2007 and ratified the 22nd of January 2009.
42
  These reports have to be delivered annually in the month of March while the current Administration is in
office. The government agencies in charge of the implementation of the sectoral programs provide the
SHCP with inputs for the PND progress report. Afterwards, the document is sent to the President's Office
for his signature. The information provided by the government agencies is based on 2007-2012 indicators,
as stated in the sectoral programs. The sectoral programs link their own objectives and strategies with
those of the PND.

                                                   47
132. The Bank will continue to help CONAGUA and SEMARNAT bring forward
the adaptation agenda in the water sector by means of a TAP (see section on Value
Added in Section IV). During the preparation of this DPL, the Bank has preliminarily
agreed with CONAGUA on the scope and contents of a TAP, which would include: (a)
development of CONAGUA's long-term planning vision ("Vision 2030"); (b) capacity
development on Climate Change; (c) enhancement of the water financing system
("sistema financiero del agua"); (d) positioning the water agenda through the COP 16
process; (e) development of models for adapting irrigated agriculture to climate change in
Northern Mexico; (f) strengthening the Mexican water rights administration system and
implementation of Water Banks in areas where concessions exceed water availability;
and (g) the preparation of a "white paper" on water and climate change (see Annex 11 for
a preliminary draft).

133. Implementation of the water sector programs and adaptation policies
embedded in the PECC will require a strong inter-institutional coordination
capacity. In response to this anticipated need, the Bank will support the government of
Mexico to implement its water sector programs through lending instruments and
technical assistance programs. A core element of the assistance is helping to build the
capacity of the institutions involved and to strengthen the linkages of those institutions in
their policy-setting, investment review and financing capacities. A parallel investment
and technical assistance project is concurrently being prepared by the Bank with
CONAGUA that will help strengthen its institutional capacity (PROME).

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

134. As documented in the 2003 Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA), 2007 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), and other
analytical work, the public financial management(PFM) systems at federal level are
adequate to support development policy lending. As envisioned in the CPS, the Bank
is collaborating with the Mexican Government at the central and sub national level in
strategic areas aimed at modernizing and reforming public finances, and increasing
transparency. This has been supported by a number of knowledge services to the SHCP
and Secretariat of Public Administration (SFP) through different instruments. Likewise,
the Bank has reviewed the PFM systems of the Mexican federal administration in the
context of a number of different DPLs approved in 2008 and 2009.

135. In the last decade, the Mexican Government has introduced a number of
laws and reforms in public finances aimed at improving fiscal responsibility and
transparency by modernizing the budget process and creating a more efficient and
transparent fiscal framework in line with international good practices. The funding
from this DPL will support the Federal Expenditure Budget (Presupuesto de Egresos
Federales, PEF) and, accordingly, will be subject to provisions of the annual PEF Law,
the Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, the Government Accounting Law, the
Manual of Budget Procedures among others. This set of legal and regulatory
arrangements, together with the country operating systems, provides for sound budget
formulation, execution and control arrangements for public expenditures. Other internal
control aspects are ruled by the Federal Public Administration Internal Control Standards.
                                             48
136. Rules and procedures governing the budget, accounting and public
expenditure laws are clear and comprehensive, and the budget monitoring and
control systems work well, but there remain some areas where the GOM is pursuing
further advances. Key priorities are developing a long-term focus for the budget,
including performance results in the budget formulation process, and engaging the public
sector to focus on results. Currently, the Mexican government is working towards
achieving the envisioned reforms in PFM, including harmonized budget and accounting
financial reporting, modernization of its treasury operations (including full
implementation of the Treasury Single Account), as well as designing an integrated
financial management system at federal level. With Bank support, progress has been
made towards international standards in different areas of PFM.

137. The Bank is collaborating with the Government in addressing the main
recommendations from the CPAR. Those recommendations resulted from close
collaboration with the main public sector stakeholders and incorporated the views of
representatives from twenty-two Mexican private sector organizations, international
development partners, representatives of civil society, and numerous government
officials involved in public procurement. The main recommendations from the CPAR
were: (i) Mexico's procurement system requires modernization, simplification and more
flexibility to respond to rapidly changing market conditions; and (ii) the system should be
more open and competitive and less focused on compliance and control. The reforms
proposed in the CPAR would better align the procurement system with the government's
objectives and generate substantial savings through reduced transaction costs and lower
market prices from suppliers. They would also contribute to enhance transparency,
predictability, and public trust in the system.

138. The Federal Supreme Audit Institution provides external oversight and
conducts a number of regular performance, financial and compliance audits of
government programs. The annual public accounts are prepared and sent to Congress
within four months of the end of the fiscal year. The external audit of these accounts is
undertaken by the Auditor General and presented to the legislature fourteen months after
the end of the fiscal year. Audit reports are comprehensive and there is a system in place
to follow up on audit findings and recommendations. The results of audits by the Auditor
General are made public in the annual audit report on the Federal Public Accounts.

DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

139. The flow of funds arrangements for this operation will be in line with those
generally used in DPLs for Mexico, per long-standing agreements with the
government. The SHCP has informed the Bank that BANSEFI will be the financial
agent of the Borrower with regard to this DPL.43 Under this arrangement, once the loan
becomes effective, the Bank will deposit the single tranche disbursement in US dollars
into a designated account of the financial agent for subsequent credit by the financial


43
  The use of a financial agent and designated account is a standard procedure of the government of Mexico
for its control purposes and not an additional requirement by the Bank.

                                                   49
agent to an account of the National Treasury (Tesorería de la Federación, TESOFE) used
for budgeted expenditures. Based on the review of the 2008 and 2009 audit reports of
BANSEFI and the extensive experience between the Bank and BANSEFI regarding
funds flow from bank-financed operations, there is no evidence that the banking control
environment into which the DPL proceeds would flow is other than adequate. If
requested by the Bank, the SHCP will provide the Bank with a written confirmation of
this transaction after funds are disbursed.

140. Based on the assessment of the borrower's current PFM and the conclusion
that the fiduciary arrangements for this operation are adequate, the Bank will not
require an audit of the designated account and no additional fiduciary
arrangements are deemed necessary for the DPL.

RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

141. The operation's main risks arise from the economic and fiscal situation, the
political and administrative context and the potential environmental / social risk.
Overall, however such risks are deemed to be of low impact and, as such, the proposed
loan is subject to low risk. Below is a matrix identifying the main risks assessed for the
operation and the related mitigation measures.




                                           50
         Table 2: Risks to the Sustainability of the Programs Supported by the DPL

     Economic and Fiscal Risks                                     Mitigation Measure
                                             The Mexican economy has been hard hit by the collapse in
                                             international trade and global economic crisis showing a historic
Persistence of the economic downturn in      contraction in GDP in 2009 by 6.5 percent. Economic activity
Mexico's major markets, particularly the     picked up again as of the second half of 2009 and is off to a
United States, and/or low commodity          strong start in 2010, led by external demand. The economic
prices could lead to fiscal pressures that   downturn has not affected funding for water sector and watershed
might undercut the Borrower's capacity       management programs. Indeed, Mexico responded to the crisis
to implement key aspects of the              by adopting initially a counter-cyclical fiscal stance, which has
operation, notably its capacity to fund      subsequently been complemented by measure to strengthen tax
water sector and watershed management        collection. Oil price movements as well as falling and
programs through which climate change        disappointing levels of oil production are a significant source of
adaptation is to be mainstreamed.            volatility in Mexico's public finances, in view of the country's
                                             high oil dependence and low non-oil tax base. Revenue
                                             stabilization funds, leveraged by a policy of oil price hedges, have
                                             compensated part of the revenue shortfall and allowed Mexico to
                                             implement its countercyclical policy response in 2009. Oil price
                                             hedges have been contracted and limits on revenue stabilization
                                             funds were lifted for 2010 thereby allowing for the replenishment
                                             of the funds and the revenue smoothing mechanisms to operate
                                             and mitigate future sharp drop in oil revenue. Throughout the
                                             crisis Mexico maintained access to domestic, international and
                                             multilateral debt markets. Policy measures to mitigate the effect
                                             of a waning global risk appetite include a new one-year
                                             arrangement for Mexico under the Flexible Credit Line (FCL) of
                                             the IMF (approved in March 2010) as well as a rules based
                                             intervention mechanism to increase the level of international
                                             reserves.
  Political and Institutional Risks                                Mitigation Measure
                                             Having transmitted its Fourth Communication to the UNFCCC,
                                             Mexico (the first non-Annex 1 country to do so) has consolidated
                                             its reputation as a global leader on climate change adaptation and
                                             is likely to wish to maintain its leadership position, rather than be
Presidential elections leading to a          seen as retreating. In addition, successive administrations have
change in administration in 2012 could       declared water a "strategic matter of national security," a view
weaken commitment to Mexico's                which further deterioration in water supply and quality would
climate change agenda and, specifically,     only reinforce. Mexico's commitment to climate change
to actions in the water sector to adapt to   adaptation, both broadly and in the water sector, is embedded in
climate change. Stakeholder opposition       the 2004 Water Law, which adopted the principles of IWRM, and
to the program could emerge as its           in a range of national plans and established water sector and
effects     become       clearer     with    watershed management programs. Stakeholder support is likely
implementation.            SEMARNAT,         to be maintained through participatory and consultative processes
CONAGUA, and CONAFOR may                     and arrangements mandated by national law, such as the
prove to lack the capacity to advance the    requirement for a 60-day public comment period on proposed
program.                                     regulations and the River Basin Councils and other multi-
                                             stakeholder councils. The Bank will support implementing
                                             capacity through a TAP and other technical assistance (TA)
                                             arrangements and through its on-going engagement with the
                                             government on water sector/climate change matters.




                                                     51
 Social and Environmental Risks                              Mitigation Measure
                                       The policies supported by the proposed operation are expected to
                                       have significant positive social and environmental effects,
                                       including benefits to the poor, agricultural producers, water users
                                       in general, and other stakeholders. Some potential negative
                                       environmental effects could eventually derive from: i) risks
                                       associated to lower institutional capacity at de-concentrated level.
                                       ii) possibility of increasing over-exploitation in cases of over-
                                       concessions of water; iii) incentives under programs not linked to
                                       proper environmental standards. For each of these risks,
                                       mitigation measures have been identified as follow: i)
                                       CONAGUA has developed a good capacity for screening,
                                       assessment and mitigation of environmental effects of its
                                       activities (see note on CONAGUA's Environmental Capacity),
Program implementation could produce   but as delegation of authority to Organismos de Cuenca
unexpected     adverse  social   and   progresses, it will be essential to strengthen their capacity to apply
environmental effects.                 CONAGUA's standards and procedures, and introduce the proper
                                       controls to ensure compliance at all levels; ii) the possibility that
                                       some river basins and aquifers are over-concessioned (worsening
                                       overexploitation of natural resources) can be mitigated by
                                       CONAGUA's efforts to streamline the process of revision and
                                       regularization of concessions, implementing Operational Norms
                                       and regulations to secure environmental flows, and monitoring
                                       water rights transfers through water banks; iii) in terms of federal
                                       programs, it will be important that all activities and incentives
                                       under this umbrella follow environmental procedures and federal
                                       norms, as well as standards and procedures set by CONAGUA,
                                       including advice prescribed the Mexican Government, the World
                                       Bank and the OECD such as improving information disclosure
                                       and consultation.




                                               52
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                 53
54
                        Translation Development Policy Letter

Robert B. Zoellick
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development


Mexico is highly vulnerable to climatic events because of its geographic conditions and
ecosystems characteristics, as well as its social and economic development realities.

One of the direct consequences of climate change for the water sector is likely to be a
decline in rainfall and water run-offs, as well as reductions in the volume of water stored
in dams and aquifers. This will have a negative impact on the availability of water for
cities, industries, irrigation and the generation of electricity. In addition, increasing
temperatures could worsen the quality of water in some rivers, which could promote the
proliferation of water-borne microorganisms and aquatic weeds.

Climate change can also result in increases in average sea levels through the thermal
expansion of the oceans as well as melting of icebergs. This will primarily affect
populations, ecosystems and infrastructure in productive zones located in or near coastal
areas.

Mexico's National Water Program (2009-2010) and the Special Program for Climate
Change (2009-2012) were developed to address the impacts of climate change while at
the same time complying with the strategies and policy guidelines dealing with
sustainable development and conservation of water resources contained in the 2007-2012
National Development Plan and in the Environment and Natural Resources Program. The
National Water Program and the Special Program for Climate Change specify the
objectives, strategies, policies and goals to recover basins, tributaries and groundwater.
Their aim is also to modernize water uses and reduce pressure on water resources in the
near term, as well as take a long-term conservation perspective.

In addition, the National Water Commission is undertaking a set of actions for the
sustainable management of water that place special emphasis on adaptation. The
objective it to improve use, increase water treatment and reuse, reduce discharges and
their impacts on bodies of water, and slow as much as possible the negative impacts on
distribution and availability resulting from global warming.

In this context, the National Water Commission, jointly with the World Bank, is putting
together a capacity building effort to support the internalization of this issue in our
institution, as well as follow-up Vision 2030 in the area of water. The program also
entails planning activities to strengthen the measurement of water quantity and quality in
our country. Finally, it includes the development of a "concept document" on the
adaptation of the water sector to climate change to be presented within the framework of
COP 16.

                                            55
The Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources values World Bank support
(through the technical assistance of experts) to improve the institutional framework to
develop and implement policies to confront climate change in the water sector and the
growing incorporation of the adaptation to climate change approach by operators, users
and consumers of water. These actions will be made possible within the framework of the
Policy Loan for Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector that the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit is negotiating with the Bank.

Best Wishes,


Ing. Juan Rafael Elvira Quesada
Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources




                                          56
                                             ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX
          Policy Matrix with Prior Actions, Outcomes and Indicators

  Policy Area         Prior Action        Short term outcomes (at                   Indicator                   Medium-Term
                                              DPL ICR date)                                                      Outcomes
1- Strengthening    Mexico has            · CONAGUA is                  · CONAGUA has established water · CONAGUA is
the institutional   strengthened its        implementing the              quality monitoring sites in 13        incorporating the
framework and       commitment to           monitoring system for         river basin organizations (baseline   effects of climate
monitoring          climate change in       measuring the impact of       in 2007 =400, target=1,500)           change in water
capacity in         the water sector by     climate change in the       · CONAGUA is operating                  planning
IWRM                submitting the          water cycle                   piezometric gauges (baseline in
                    Fourth                                                2007=220, target =370)
                    Communication to                                    · CONAGUA maintains and
                    the UNFCCC                                            operates the hydro climatic
                    CONAGUA has          · Water Resources                stations (baseline and target
                    strengthened the       Management plans have          =3,700)
                    institutional          been developed in a          · CONAGUA has conducted
                    framework for          participatory manner for       56,347 radio sounding
                    IWRM by                each basin                     measurements (baseline =3,787
                    delegating           · River Basin Councils are       annually)
                    increased              participating in the         · CONAGUA has developed 18
                    responsibility to 18   implementation of              plans for aquifers management
                    River Basin            projects and programs as       (baseline in 2007 =0)
                    Councils to            defined in the watershed     · River Basin Organizations are
                    oversee, plan and      management plans               implementing 13 water programs
                    manage projects                                       (baseline in 2007=0)
                                                                        · River Basin Councils are            · Institutionalization
                    and programs                                                                                of the process of
                    established in                                        overseeing the execution of water
                                                                          resources management plans            planning,
                    watershed                                                                                   programming,
                    management plans                                      (baseline=0, target=26)
                                                                        · Participation of women, youth,        budgeting of water
                    CONAGUA has           · CONAGUA is                    indigenous, elderly, people with      resources
                    strengthened the        improving efficiency in       different abilities has increased     management at the
                    institutional           water rights transmission     through their inclusion in the        basin level
                    framework for         · There is increased            Mexican Committee for               · Participation at
                    IWRM by setting         transparency in demand        Sustainable Use of Water              community level
                    up 2 water banks        and supply of water           (baseline in 2007=3, target=5)        of all stakeholders
                    to foster the           rights                      · CONAGUA has published and is          in management of
                    sustainable                                           implementing regulations on use       water resources is
                    management and                                        of water in priority basins           leading to more
                    efficient                                             (baseline in 2007 =0, target=4)       sustainable use
                    administration of                                   · CONAGUA has formulated
                    water resources                                       regulations on water use in
                                                                          priority aquifers (baseline in
                                                                          2007=0, target =10)
                                                                        · Water availability information for
                                                                          718 rivers basins has been
                                                                          published (baseline in 2007=91)
                                                                        · Water banks are performing their
                                                                          role by facilitating the exchange
                                                                          of water rights and increasing
                                                                          transparency



                                                                57
  Policy Area       Prior Action         Short term outcomes (at                Indicator                  Medium Term
                                             DPL ICR date)                                                  Outcomes
2­               CONAGUA has             CONAGUA is providing · Water availability                     · CONAGUA
Mainstreaming    issued two norms to     funding to implement          information for 653 aquifers      mainstreams aquifers
Adaptation to    provide regulatory      artificial aquifers recharge has been published (baseline       re-charge as a long-
Climate Change   instruments to                                        in 2007 =202)                     term sustainable
in Water         promote the                                         · Reach a volume of 60 percent groundwater
Programs         conservation of                                       of treated water (baseline =      conservation policy
                 groundwater                                           36.1 percent in 2007)             by including it in its
                 resources                                           · Irrigated area with treated       policies and programs
                                                                       wastewater in irrigation          as a key principle
                 CONAGUA has             Water utilities are           districts / units reaches 5,000 · Mainstreaming the
                 incorporated in the     receiving funding from        hectares (baseline in 2007        reuse of treated
                 Wastewater              CONAGUA to increase           =0)                               wastewater by
                 Treatment Funding       and promote water reuse · Hectares of forest restored           including such
                 Program (Fondos         and aquifers recharge         (cumulative baseline up to        principle in
                 Concursables)                                         2009 =3,000 ha)                   CONAGUA's
                 criteria promoting                                  · Productivity of irrigation        policies and programs
                 the recharge of                                       districts has increased 2.8
                 aquifers and water                                    percent annually to reach 1.66
                 re-use for                                            kg per m³ ­ (baseline
                 conservation of                                       =1.41kg per m³ in 2007)
                 groundwater
                 resources
                 CONAFOR has             · Forest cover is being                                       · The restoration of
                 issued operating          restored                                                      60,000 hectares of
                 rules for the Special   · Degraded areas of                                             forests by 2015
                 Program for the           microwatersheds in                                            (Cutzamala Special
                 Conservation and          priority areas are being                                      Program objective) is
                 Protection of             restored                                                      protecting watersheds
                 Microwatersheds in                                                                      and their hydrological
                 priority areas to                                                                       balance through
                 promote reduction                                                                       prevention of soil
                 of soil erosion,                                                                        erosion, flooding,
                 reforestation and                                                                       silting of dams, rivers,
                 forest protection                                                                       canals and other water
                                                                                                         bodies, as well as
                                                                                                         promotion of
                                                                                                         infiltration and
                                                                                                         improved water
                                                                                                         quality and
                                                                                                         production
                 CONAGUA has          · Irrigation districts are                                         Water use
                 strengthened the       receiving funding from                                           productivity
                 protection of          CONAGUA to increase                                              increased in the
                 overexploited          water efficiency                                                 agricultural sector
                 aquifers by means of
                 its programs to
                 improve the water
                 productivity of
                 irrigation



                                                              58
                        ANNEX 3: FUND RELATIONS NOTE




IMF Executive Board Concludes 2010 Article IV Consultation with Mexico
Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 10/39
March 16, 2010

 Public Information Notices (PINs) form part of the IMF's efforts to promote
 transparency of the IMF's views and analysis of economic developments and policies.
 With the consent of the country (or countries) concerned, PINs are issued after
 Executive Board discussions of Article IV consultations with member countries, of its
 surveillance of developments at the regional level, of post-program monitoring, and
 of ex post assessments of member countries with longer-term program engagements.
 PINs are also issued after Executive Board discussions of general policy matters,
 unless otherwise decided by the Executive Board in a particular case. The staff report
 (use the free Adobe Acrobat Reader to view this pdf file) for the 2010 Article IV
 Consultation with Mexico is also available.


On March 10, 2010, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
concluded the Article IV consultation with Mexico.1
Background
Mexico had significantly strengthened policy credibility and public and private sector
balance sheets before the onset of the crisis. Strong economic performance, with growth
averaging over 3.5 percent in 2003-07, was underpinned by robust macro policy
frameworks along with the flexible exchange rate regime. Considerable progress was made
in improving debt profiles, and the strong regulatory framework gave rise to a sound
banking sector.
Nevertheless, Mexico's resilience was severely tested during the global crisis. The surge in
risk aversion following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 triggered a
sharp retrenchment of financial flows from emerging markets, including Mexico, resulting
in liquidity strains and marked currency depreciation. Meanwhile, reflecting close U.S.
linkages, Mexico experienced a rapid decline in manufacturing exports in the first half of
2009. Unanticipated large losses on corporate foreign exchange derivate positions
disclosed in late 2008 further weighed on confidence, while the H1N1 virus outbreak in
mid-2009 put an additional drag on activity. Against this background, output contracted by
6½ percent in 2009, while the peso fell 25 percent against the dollar in the nine months to
mid-2009.
Prompt and effective policy measures were adopted in response to the crisis.
Macroeconomic policies were eased significantly, providing a fiscal impulse of 2.5 percent
of GDP in 2009 and reducing policy rates by a total of 375 bps, to 4.5 percent, since mid-

                                             59
2008. Targeted assistance was also extended to financial intermediaries to address funding
shortages. At the same time, Mexico's Central Bank (Banxico) made substantial
interventions (US$31.4 billion in total) to maintain orderly liquidity conditions in the
foreign exchange market, and secured contingent financing through the Federal Reserve
swap line ($30bn, expired in February 2010) and the Fund Flexible Credit Line ($47bn,
effective till mid-April 2010) to further support confidence. On the back of these strong
policy measures, growth has resumed since mid-2009, the peso exchange rate has
rebounded, while domestic financial stability has been maintained.
Building on the recent momentum, activity is expected to accelerate in the near term,
leading to projected growth of 4 percent for 2010. Inflation was pushed up to 4½ percent in
January 2010 by one-off increases in taxes and administered prices, but is expected to
return to the 3 percent target by end-2011 reflecting the considerable economic slack. With
domestic demand gradually strengthening, the current account deficit is projected to widen
slightly to 1½ percent of GDP in 2010.
The authorities have also undertaken a series of measures to further bolster fundamentals
and rebuild buffers. The FY2010 budget included a substantive tax reform, designed to
offset the revenue losses from lower oil production, while allowing for a temporary easing
of the balanced budget rule in response to the cyclical downturn. Requirements on
corporate disclosure of derivative exposures has been tightened, while structural reforms to
enhance growth potential--most recently reforms of the electricity sector--are being
advanced. In addition, the authorities have announced plans to increase foreign exchange
reserves gradually through a combination of retaining public sector foreign exchange cash
flows and the use of an options-based mechanism.
Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors commended the authorities for their sound policy frameworks and
progress in strengthening public and private sector balance sheets, which had enabled an
effective counter-cyclical policy response and helped preserve stability during the crisis.
Their swift action to secure contingency credit lines--from the U.S. Federal Reserve and
the Fund--has also helped maintain external confidence. The economy is starting to
recover, following the deep output contraction in the first half of 2009. However, the
uncertain global outlook could pose downside risks, underscoring the need to increase
room for policy maneuver and strengthen efforts to address medium-term fiscal and growth
challenges.
Directors considered that the 2010 budget is appropriate. The tax package represents an
important step toward achieving medium-term fiscal sustainability, while the temporary
easing of the balanced budget, in accordance with the exceptional clause of the fiscal rule,
would help cushion the impact of the withdrawal of fiscal support. Directors welcomed the
progress in fiscal reforms over the past three years. Given the expected structural declines
in oil revenues and rising current spending pressures, they welcomed plans to seek
expenditure savings and further strengthen tax administration. Further efforts would be
needed to advance on oil sector reforms, broaden the tax base, and simplify the tax system.
Moving to a structural budget rule would help reduce procyclicality and spending
volatility, further strengthening policy credibility. Directors saw the removal of the caps on
savings in the oil stabilization funds as a step in the right direction.
In light of the still weak demand conditions, Directors agreed that monetary policy should

                                              60
     remain supportive until the recovery is firmly established. The central bank's effective
     communication has helped limit the effects on inflation of the recent changes in taxes and
     administered prices. Nevertheless, second-round effects would need to be carefully
     monitored.
     Directors agreed that the flexible exchange rate has played an important role in the
     adjustment process, and welcomed the transparent, rules-based intervention mechanisms.
     Noting persistent market concerns about Mexico's low reserve coverage relative to balance
     sheet indicators, many Directors saw merit in the authorities' plan to explore options for
     further strengthening foreign exchange buffers. A number of other Directors pointed to the
     need to take due account of the costs and externalities of reserve accumulation.
     Directors noted that the financial system remains resilient, underpinned by strong
     regulation and supervision. They welcomed the authorities' prompt action to address
     emerging issues in some small nonbank institutions, and encouraged continued close
     monitoring of developments in this sector. Directors supported the intentions to broaden
     the regulatory perimeter, set up a committee for assessing systemic risks, and reform the
     financial sector resolution framework.
     Directors emphasized that the challenge of reinvigorating growth has gained new urgency
     in a weak global environment. They encouraged the authorities to expedite structural
     reforms to boost growth, building on recent important steps to improve productivity in the
     electricity sector. Key priorities include advancing on strengthening the competition
     framework, streamlining the regulatory framework, and enhancing labor market flexibility.

                             Mexico: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators 1/
                                                                                      2004     2005       2006   2007    2008   2009

                                          (Annual percentage changes, unless otherwise indicated)

National accounts and prices

Real GDP                                                                               4.0          3.2    4.9    3.3     1.5    -6.5

Real GDP per capita 2/                                                                 2.7          3.4    4.2    2.4     0.5    -7.3

Gross domestic investment (in percent of GDP)                                         24.8     24.4       26.1   25.8    26.4   22.1

Gross national savings (in percent of GDP)                                            24.1     23.8       25.7   25.0    24.9   21.4

Consumer price index (end period)                                                      5.2          3.3    4.1     3.8    6.5     3.6

External sector

Exports, f.o.b. 3/                                                                    14.1     14.0       16.7     8.8    7.2   -21.2

Imports, f.o.b. 4/                                                                    15.4     12.7       15.4   10.1     9.5   -24.0

External current account balance (in percent of GDP)                                   -0.7     -0.5      -0.5    -0.8   -1.5    -0.6

Change in net international reserves (end of period, billions of U.S. dollars)         -4.1     -7.2       1.0   -10.3   -7.5    -5.4

Outstanding external debt (in percent of GDP)                                         21.9     20.4       17.8   18.8    18.5   23.8

Total debt service ratio 5/                                                           30.8     25.9       30.3   23.0    23.0   28.3
(in percent of exports of goods, services, and transfers)
Nonfinancial public sector (in percent of GDP)

Augmented overall balance                                                              -1.6     -1.4      -1.0    -1.4   -1.5    -4.7



                                                                      61
    Traditional overall balance                                                              -0.2     -0.1       0.1         0.0   -0.1   -2.3

    Gross augmented public sector debt                                                      41.4      39.8      38.3        38.2   43.3   44.6

    Net augmented public sector debt                                                        36.8      35.2      32.4        31.4   35.8   38.8

    Money and credit

    Monetary base                                                                           12.0      11.7      18.4        10.0   16.7    9.4

    Broad money (M4a)                                                                       12.6      15.0      12.8        11.5   17.2    5.9

    Treasury bill rate (28-day cetes, in percent, annual average)                            6.8       9.2       7.2         7.2    7.5    5.4

    Sources: National Institute of Statistics and Geography; Bank of Mexico; and Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;
    and IMF staff estimates.


    1/ Methodological differences mean that the figures in this table may differ from those published by the authorities.
    2/ Fund staff estimates.

    3/ Exports net of maquila sector imports.

    4/ Excludes maquila sector imports.

    5/ Public and private sectors.

1
 Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year. A staff team
visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the country's economic developments and
policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the
conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this
summary is transmitted to the country's authorities. An explanation of any qualifiers used in summings up can be found here:
http://www.imf.org/external/np/sec/misc/qualifiers.htm



IMF EXTERNAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
Public Affairs     Media Relations
Phone:202-623-7300 Phone: 202-623-7100
Fax: 202-623-6278 Fax: 202-623-6772




          IMF Executive Board Renews US$48 Billion Flexible Credit Line Arrangement with
          Mexico
          Press Release No. 10/114
          March 25, 2010

          The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) today approved a
          successor one-year arrangement for Mexico under the Flexible Credit Line (FCL) in an
          amount equivalent to SDR 31.528 billion (about US$48 billion). The Mexican



                                                                        62
authorities stated they intend to treat the arrangement as precautionary and do not intend
to draw on the line.
The FCL was established on March 24, 2009 as part of a major reform of the Fund's
lending framework (see Press Release No. 09/85). The FCL is designed for crisis
prevention purposes as it provides the flexibility to draw on the credit line at any time.
Disbursements are not phased nor conditioned on compliance with policy targets as in
traditional IMF-supported programs. This flexible access is justified by the very strong
track records of countries that qualify for the FCL, which gives confidence that their
economic policies will remain strong.
Following the Executive Board discussion of Mexico, Mr. John Lipsky, First Deputy
Managing Director and Acting Chairman of the Board, made the following statement:
"Mexico has a sustained record of sound economic policies, and has very strong
economic fundamentals and frameworks. Public and private debt levels were reduced
and balance sheets strengthened in the years before the global crisis. Well implemented
rules-based policy mechanisms, including the balanced budget fiscal rule and inflation
targeting framework and flexible exchange rate regime, have anchored stability.
This strong policy framework has helped preserve stability during the crisis, and­­for
the first time in many decades­­allowed the authorities to deliver a sizable
countercyclical fiscal and monetary policy response. Adroit steps have been taken in
various financial market segments to maintain orderly conditions. The authorities have
continued to demonstrate their commitment and ability to reform in challenging times,
including through the passage of important revenue measures in the 2010 budget that
will strengthen the medium-term fiscal outlook. Swift action to secure contingent credit
lines during the crisis--from the U.S. Federal Reserve and the International Monetary
Fund--also helped maintain external confidence.
On the back of these strong policy measures and improving global economic conditions,
growth has resumed since mid-2009, asset prices have recovered from troughs seen at
the height of the crisis, and domestic financial stability has been maintained. Looking
forward, policies will continue to be underpinned by the rules-based macroeconomic
framework, and the authorities intend to continue to react as needed to any future shocks
that may arise.
Nonetheless, sizeable downside risks still confront the global economy. It is against this
background that, at the authorities' request, the Executive Board today approved a one-
year arrangement under the IMF's FCL, which the authorities intend to treat as
precautionary. This successor FCL arrangement will continue to play an important role
in supporting the authorities' overall macroeconomic strategy and in bolstering
confidence until external conditions improve, complementing financing from other
multilaterals.
Mexico's very strong policy frameworks and economic fundamentals, together with the
additional insurance provided by the successor arrangement under the FCL, put Mexico
in a very strong position to deal with other potential risks that could arise in the period
ahead as the global economy continues to gradually recover from the crisis."
To read the staff report and other documents related to the approval of Mexico's Flexible
Credit Line, please see: http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2010/cr1081.pdf


                                            63
IMF EXTERNAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
Public Affairs      Media Relations
Phone: 202-623-7300 Phone: 202-623-7100
Fax: 202-623-6278 Fax: 202-623-6772




                                64
      ANNEX 4: MACROECONOMIC, FISCAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
                          CONTEXT

1.      The Mexican economy is starting to recover from a deep contraction of
economic activity following the global economic and financial crisis. As a relatively
open economy, Mexico was hard hit by the collapse of international trade during the last
quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. As a result, annual economic growth in
2008 was down to a meager 1.3 percent and GDP actually fell by 6.5 percent in 2009. In
line with a global recovery in production and trade, economic activity in Mexico picked
up in the second half of 2009 and is off to a strong start this year.

2.      The recovery is led by a resurgence in the demand for exports. Manufactured
exports were down by 25 percent during the first half of 2009 compared to the same
period of the previous year. The decline in manufactured exports ebbed in the second
half of the year and exports started to increase again (on a year-on-year basis) during the
last two months of the year.

3.      Prior to the onset of the global economic downturn, Mexico experienced
moderate growth within a framework of enhanced macroeconomic stability. GDP
growth averaged 3.8 percent annually between 2004 and 2007. Fiscal policy successfully
focused on reducing the public sector deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio, and enhanced
price stability contributed to a healthy domestic credit expansion and growing domestic
demand.

4.       Counter-cyclical fiscal stimulus policies were implemented during 2009 to
mitigate the impact of the external demand shock on the domestic economy. The
fiscal stimulus policies included additional public investment in infrastructure, temporary
employment programs, a reduction and freeze of public sector administrated prices in the
energy sector and an expansion of development bank credit programs.

5.     The economic contraction led to a sharp decline in tax revenues that was
partially compensated by non-recurrent revenue in 2009. Non-oil tax revenues
dropped by 11.5 percent in real terms in 2009, while Value Added Tax revenues fell by
15 percent. The government compensated for lower oil and non-oil revenues with
income from a successful oil price hedge, an extraordinary transfer of profits from the
Central Bank and by drawing resources from revenue stabilization funds. These non-
recurrent revenues amounted to 2.8 percent of GDP and helped maintain the Public
Sector Borrowing Requirement at a modest 3.2 percent of GDP.

6.     Public revenue enhancing measures and a temporary budget deficit are part
of the 2010 public sector budget. The Mexican fiscal responsibility law requires a
balanced budget.44 It allows for a budget deficit only under "exceptional circumstances"



44
  A modification to the law adopted by Congress in 2008 includes all investments by the public sector oil
company in the budget but excludes these investments from the budget balance requirement. Those
investments are budgeted at 2.0 percent in 2010. As a result, the overall budget deficit for 2010 is

                                                   65
                                                                                                                                                              Figure 4-1 a-f: Real Economic Indicators
a) The Mexican economy faces the worst recession since the                                                                                                                                                                                           b)... the result of a sharp aggregate demand contraction
Tequila crisis...
                                                                                                            GDP Growth                                                                                                                                                                                                               Contribution to Growth 
               4%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4%
               1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1%

         2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5%                                       Private Consumption
         5%
                                              qoq%  s.a.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Private Investment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Public Expenditure
         8%                                   yoy% 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11%                                       Foreign Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GDP
   11%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14%
                                                2007:II




                                                                                                                         2008:II




                                                                                                                                                                                                2009:II
                                                                                     2007:IV




                                                                                                                                                               2008:IV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2009:IV
                                                                  2007:III




                                                                                                                                           2008:III




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009:III




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2007:II




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2008:II




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009:II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2007:IV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2008:IV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009:IV
                               2007:I




                                                                                                       2008:I




                                                                                                                                                                                 2009:I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2007:III




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2008:III




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2009:III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2007:I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2008:I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2009:I
c) Fall in exports, due to weaker external demand, has been                                                                                                                                                                                          d) Manufacturing output is closely correlated to
accompanied by a strong reduction in imports                                                                                                                                                                                                         significantly weaker activity in the US industrial sector....
                                                                                                                Foreign Trade                                                                                                                                                                                 Industrial Production Index (s.a.)
               30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        118

               28

               26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        114
 US$ billion




               24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         110
               22

               20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         106
               18

               16                                                   Exports                                             Imports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         102
               14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jul07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jul08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jul09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sep07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sep08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sep09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jan07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jan08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jan09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jan10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     May07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          May08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           May09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nov07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nov08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nov09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mar07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mar08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mar09
                                                                                 Nov07




                                                                                                                                                              Nov08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Nov09
                                                          Jul07




                                                                                                                                   Jul08




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jul09
                                                                       Sep07




                                                                                                                                               Sep08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sep09
                                    Mar07




                                                                                                           Mar08




                                                                                                                                                                                    Mar09
                       Jan07




                                                                                               Jan08




                                                                                                                                                                         Jan09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jan10
                                               May07




                                                                                                                        May08




                                                                                                                                                                                              May09




e) ...leading to job losses and higher levels of unemployment,                                                                                                                                                                                       f) which generate a lower wage bill and the contraction of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     household's consumption

                                                                                      Unemployment rate (%)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Wage Bill Index   
           9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2005=100) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         120 
           8                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         115 
           7                                                 Urban
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         110 
           6
           5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             105 

           4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100 

           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          95 
           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90 
                    Jan07




                                                              Sep07
                                                                             Nov07
                                                                                         Jan08




                                                                                                                                      Sep08
                                                                                                                                                      Nov08
                                                                                                                                                                Jan09




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sep09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nov09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jan10
                                            May07




                                                                                                                May08




                                                                                                                                                                                      May09
                                                     Jul07




                                                                                                                           Jul08




                                                                                                                                                                                               Jul09
                               Mar07




                                                                                                  Mar08




                                                                                                                                                                           Mar09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dec04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dec09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jun07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Oct05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nov07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jul09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Apr08

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sep08

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Feb09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mar06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jan07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aug06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 May05




                                            estimated at 2.7 percent of GDP (i.e. 2.0 percent oil sector investment and an additional 0.7 percent
                                            temporary deficit spending).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66
and only under the condition that a medium-term fiscal framework is adopted to return to
a balanced budget. Lower public sector tax revenues resulting from the sharp decline and
current slack in economic activity are further aggravated by rapidly falling oil production.
This is creating a more structural challenge to replace diminishing oil revenues with more
permanent sources of income. The policy response has been to increase income, value
added and excise tax rates and, at the same time, to allow for an additional budget deficit
of 0.7 percent of GDP in 2010. The latter is planned to be reduced to 0.4 percent by 2011
and should return to balance by 2012.

7.      Monetary policy has been eased to support efforts to offset the downturn in
economic activity. The severity of the economic downturn led the monetary authorities
to reduce the target for the overnight interbank interest rate by an accumulated 375 basis
points between January and July of 2009, from 8.25 to 4.50 percent. Lower economic
activity affected headline inflation, which was down to 3.6 percent by the end of 2009.
The Central Bank is projecting a temporary, one-time increase in consumer price
inflation in 2010, to a range of 4.75-5.25 percent by year-end, due to tax and public sector
price increases included in the 2010 budget. The monetary authorities have so far left the
policy intervention rate unchanged because of the perceived temporary nature of the price
increases as well as the continued substantial slack in economic activity. The Central
Bank currently projects to reach its medium-term inflation target of 3 percent by the end
of 2011.

8.      The monetary authorities have expressed their intention to increase the level
of international reserves to mitigate the impact of any financial shock. The global
financial crisis led to an important sell-off of emerging market assets in the last quarter of
2008 and early 2009. In order to maintain and restore liquidity on the foreign exchange
and domestic financial markets, the authorities employed several policy actions,
including extensive foreign exchange interventions, the provision of loans and loan
guarantees to domestic firms by government-owned development banks, and the
repurchase and reduced issue of longer-term government bonds. Interventions on the
foreign exchange market between October 2008 and the end of 2009 implied the sale of
almost US$35 billion of international reserves. In addition, the authorities aligned
bilateral and multilateral support through a US$30 billion currency swap arrangement
with the US Federal Reserve and a US$47 billion Flexible Credit Line (FCL) with the
IMF. Announcement of the FCL in April 2009 greatly reduced the volatility of the peso
that, nevertheless, suffered a substantial depreciation. With international reserves at
US$91 billion by the end of 2009 compared to US$85 billion in September 2008,
reserves have been more than replenished from the recent currency interventions. Even
though the authorities remain committed to a flexible exchange rate as the key instrument
for adjustment to external shocks, a higher level of international reserves is deemed
appropriate to avoid excessive exchange rate volatility and enable a gradual reduction of
the FCL, which was renewed for a year in March 2010.




                                             67
                                                                                                                                                  Figure 4-2 a-f: Financial Indicators
a) Increased risk pricing was reflected in significantly higher                                                                                                                                                          b)...and in a sharp depreciation and volatility in the exchange
sovereign risk spreads...                                                                                                                                                                                                rate
                                                                                 Sovereign Risk Spreads                                                                                                                                                                         Exchange Rate (pesos/US$)
                                                             EMBI  Global basis points over US Treasury                                                                                                                       16
 1,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15
  800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14

  600                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13
                                                                                                                                                                             LAC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12
  400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
  200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                                            Mexico
      0                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
           Feb07




                                                                               Feb08




                                                                                                                                              Feb09




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Feb10
                                           Aug07




                                                                                                                  Aug08




                                                                                                                                                                            Aug09
                           May07




                                                                                                 May08




                                                                                                                                                               May09
                                                             Nov07




                                                                                                                                  Nov08




                                                                                                                                                                                         Nov09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nov08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nov09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jul08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Jul09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mar08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sep08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mar09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sep09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mar10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jan08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jan09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jan10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          May08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        May09
c) Lower economic activity contributed to a downward trend                                                                                                                                                               d).. while monetary policy has been eased since January 2009
in inflation ...
                                                                                             Inflation Rate                                                                                                                                                                              Policy Interest Rate
 7%                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9
 6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8
 5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7
 4%                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
 3%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
 2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                   Aug06




                                                                                       Aug07




                                                                                                                                          Aug08




                                                                                                                                                                                       Aug09
                                              Nov06




                                                                                                         Nov07




                                                                                                                                                      Nov08




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nov09
          Feb06
                        May06




                                                             Feb07
                                                                          May07




                                                                                                                      Feb08
                                                                                                                                 May08




                                                                                                                                                                    Feb09
                                                                                                                                                                             May09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Feb10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sep05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sep06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sep07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sep08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sep09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jan06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jan07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jan08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jan09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jan10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          May06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          May07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        May08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   May09
e) Private sector credit contracted after a period of sustained                                                                                                                                                          f) The stock market also declined sharply,but has recently
growth.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rebounded.
                                   Credit to NonFinancial  Private Sector (yoy %)                                                                                                                                                                                               Stock Market Index (IPC)
  45%                                                                                                                                                                                                                        34000
  35%                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30000
  25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28000
  15%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26000
   5%                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22000
  5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20000
 15%                                                     Total                                                                          Consumption
                                                         Housing                                                                        Business                                                                             18000
 25%                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16000
                                2004:IV




                                                                     2005:IV




                                                                                                            2006:IV




                                                                                                                                           2007:IV




                                                                                                                                                                             2008:IV




                                                                                                                                                                                                            2009:IV
              2004:II




                                                   2005:II




                                                                                       2006:II




                                                                                                                              2007:II




                                                                                                                                                              2008:II




                                                                                                                                                                                          2009:II




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jul08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jul09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sep08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sep09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jan08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jan09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jan10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             May08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         May09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nov08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nov09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mar08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mar09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mar10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        68
9.     Credit to the nonfinancial private sector has started to contract. Despite a
brief period of double digit growth over the past few years, private sector credit in
Mexico, which is approximately 30 percent of GDP, remains low compared to other
countries in the region or countries at comparable levels of economic development.
Growth of credit slowed last year and has actually started to contract in real domestic
currency terms. As Figure 4-2e shows, the growth of credit dropped sharply over the past
three quarters reaching 1.6 percent in the third quarter of 2009.

10.     Households were the hardest hit sector in terms of declining access to credit.
After six years of double digit growth in consumer credit (fueled by the credit card
business), a significantly increasing non-performing consumer credit loan portfolio led
financial intermediaries to cut back on the expansion of consumer credit. This retrenching
had already begun when the impact of the global financial crisis was felt in Mexico.
Consumer credit started to decline in real terms during the last quarter of 2008 and data
for December 2009 show an annual contraction of 20 percent. In addition, credit growth
to nonfinancial private sector firms and for housing finance, which account for some 58
and 29 percent, respectively, of total credit to the nonfinancial private sector, is rapidly
leveling off. Total housing loans outstanding had barely increased by the end of 2009
and credit to private sector firms is down to a 2 percent growth rate.

11.     In line with the global economic recovery, economic activity in Mexico is
showing a strong rebound. Recent economic data suggest that economic activity began
to recover during the second half of 2009. Due to the depth of the recent recession, as
well as the impact of lower medium-term growth in the advanced economies and in
Mexico's main trading partner, the Mexican economy is expected to operate below
potential for a couple of years. Assumptions regarding the external environment have a
major impact on projections of the main indicators of macroeconomic activity. The base
case scenario presented in Table 1 in the main text (Chapter 2) adopts assumptions for
global economic activity found in the Bank's Global Economic Prospects and in the
IMF's World Economic Outlook Update (both dated from January 2010).45 The impact
of this external scenario on the Mexican economy results in a modest rebound by 2010
and 2011 and a return to potential output by 2012.

12.    Mexico faces rising fiscal pressures resulting from a deteriorating outlook for
public sector revenues and increasing public debt-to-GDP ratios. Fiscal discipline
and a strong fiscal policy framework, including the establishment of stabilization funds
and the acquisition of oil price hedges, enabled a countercyclical policy response for
2009. The public debt-to-GDP ratio posted an important increase at the end of 2008 that
can be attributed, in part, to the issue of a recognition bond to public sector workers who
opted for the individual savings account in the public sector pension reform. The sharp
economic contraction, the depreciation of the currency and a higher fiscal deficit (PSBR)
contributed to a further increase of the public debt-to-GDP ratio in 2009. While there


45
  World output is projected to fall by 2.1 percent in 2009 and experience a gradual recovery in 2010 when
growth is expected to pick up to 3.0 percent. Similarly output in the United States is projected to contract
by 2.5 percent in 2009 before rebounding by 2.7 percent in 2010.

                                                    69
was some room for increases in the public debt and the debt-to-GDP ratio, the rapid
increase and the relatively high rate that the latter indicator is expected to reach by 2010
and 2011 suggest limits to fiscal stimulus options. In this regard, policymakers faced a
difficult trade-off between early fiscal consolidation which may aggravate the contraction
of the domestic economy and a clear and credible medium-term fiscal strategy of
revenue-enhancing measures or sustainable spending cuts to compensate for the lower
public sector revenue.

13.     Public debt remains manageable despite a significant increase in the debt-to-
GDP ratio anticipated in 2010 and 2011. Debt sustainability analyses show that the
debt-to-GDP ratio can be expected to trend downward by 201246 (see Figure 4-3). This
estimate is based on average levels of economic growth, the primary balance and the real
interest rate on public debt observed during the decade before the current economic crisis.
Bound tests47 with respect to the key growth and primary balance variables show that the
debt-to-GDP ratio will continue to trend upward and additional corrective policies will be
needed only in the case of a combined growth and primary balance shock.

     Figure 4-3: Mexico Fiscal Sustainability Analysis: Public Sector Debt to GDP
                                   ratio, 2005-2017
                      Shock in Growth Rate                                                                            Shock in Primary Balance                                                                   Combined shock in
 42%
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Growth Rate & Primary Balance
                                                                                                  42%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   42%
 40%                                                                                              40%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   40%
 38%                                                                                              38%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   38%

 36%
                                                                                                  36%                                                                                              36%

 34%
                                                           Baseline                               34%                                                                                              34%                                                           Baseline
                                                                                                                                                           Baseline
 32%                                                                                                                                                                                               32%
                                                           Baseline w. shock                      32%                                                                                                                                                            Baseline w. shock
                                                                                                                                                           Baseline w. shock
 30%                                                                                                                                                                                               30%
                                                                                                  30%
       2005
              2006
                     2007
                            2008
                                   2009
                                          2010
                                                 2011
                                                        2012
                                                               2013
                                                                      2014
                                                                             2015
                                                                                    2016
                                                                                           2017




                                                                                                                                                                                                         2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2017
                                                                                                        2005
                                                                                                               2006
                                                                                                                      2007
                                                                                                                             2008
                                                                                                                                    2009
                                                                                                                                           2010
                                                                                                                                                  2011
                                                                                                                                                         2012
                                                                                                                                                                2013
                                                                                                                                                                       2014
                                                                                                                                                                              2015
                                                                                                                                                                                     2016
                                                                                                                                                                                            2017




14.     The external current account deficit is not a cause for concern. The rapid
deterioration in the external financing and economic conditions facing the Mexican
economy was quickly reflected in the peso's exchange rate. This led to a rapid adjustment
in consumption and investment plans by Mexican households and businesses, which, in
turn, led to a sharp contraction in imports in line with (or even more pronounced than) the
fall in exports. The economic recovery projected for the next three years will lead to a
slight increase in the current account deficit




46
   Values for the variables used in this exercise include: growth average 3.1 percent, standard deviation
2.07 percent; primary balance (adjusted for off-balance expenditure and excluding non-recurrent revenue)
average 0.55 percent, standard deviation 0.69 percent; and real interest rate 3.3 percent.
47
   Shocks are permanent one-half standard deviation shocks.

                                                                                                                                           70
ANNEX 5: PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS AND PARTICIPATION FRAMEWORK
1.      Mexico has developed a comprehensive institutional framework for citizen
participation that draws from several articles of the Constitution and from a set of laws48
(including the Planning Law) that mandate that the National Development Plan and other
government programs should be developed within a participatory process. This
framework applies to both the environmental and the water sectors, which have
developed their own specific guidelines and options for citizen participation. The specific
policies, norms and programs contemplated under the Adaptation to Climate Change in
the Water Sector DPL have been framed within this institutional framework, which is
detailed below.

2.      The environmental sector recognizes the right of access to environmental
information and the right of citizen participation together with the government's
responsibility for promoting and facilitating it through several laws and bylaws.49 At the
state level, most environmental laws also include participation provisions, mainly through
the creation of consultative councils.50 One of the objectives of the 2007-2012 National
Development Plan was to guarantee that Mexicans have effective opportunities to
exercise their rights as citizens, and ensure environmental sustainability through
responsible participation. Building on this objective, SEMARNAT formulated the
National Strategy for Citizen Participation in the Environmental Sector (Estrategia
Nacional para la Participación Ciudadana en el Sector Ambiental, ENAPCi), through a
participatory process involving civil society. The ENAPCi outlines six strategies aimed at
strengthening participation options and mechanisms while fostering the integration of
environmental rights and equity criteria in environmental policies and institutions.51

3.       SEMARNAT's participation mechanisms are classified under three headings.52

         a)   Accountability and Environmental Information: provides access to the
             agency's main reports and contact people.
         b) Information and Consultation: identifies the agency mechanisms whose aim is
            to inform and consult with the public about projects and develop official rules.
            These mechanisms include, for example, environmental impact evaluations.


48
   Constitution of the Mexican States, Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, and 26; Ley de Planeación (Planning Law); Ley Federal
de Transparencia y Acceso a la Información Pública Gubernamental (Transparency and Public Information Law) and
other state and municipal laws on transparency and access to information;; Ley Federal de Fomento a las Actividades
Realizadas por Organizaciones de la Sociedad Civil (Law for the Promotion of Activities Carried Out by Civil Society
Organizations).
49
     Ley General del Equilibrio Ecologico y la Proteccion al Ambiente y Reglamentos (General Law for Ecological
Balance, Environmental Protection and Regulation); Ley de Desarrollo Forestal Sustentable (Sustainable Forest
Development Law); Ley General de Vida Silvestre y Reglamento (General Wildlife Law and Regulation); Ley General
para la Prevencion y Gestión Integral de los Residuos y Reglamento (General Law for Integrated Management and
Prevention of Waste and Regulation).
50
    For a complete list of environmental consultative councils at the state level see Estrategia Nacional para la
Participacion Ciudadana en el Sector Medioambiental, ENAPCi, Unidad Coordinadora de Participacion Social y
Transparencia, Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources, September 2008, p. 50.
51
   Ibid, p. 32
52
   See http://www.semarnat.gob.mx/participacionsocial/mecanismosdeparticipacion/Paginas/inicio.aspx

                                                         71
        c) Consultative Bodies: identifies the main councils and working groups across
           different sub-sectors, including climate change, sustainable development and
           wildlife conservation. A special unit (Unidad Coordinadora de Participación
           Social y Transparencia) coordinates social participation and transparency
           activities, including those of the Consultative Councils for Sustainable
           Development (Consejos Consultivos para el Desarrollo Sustentable). There
           are currently 32 "nucleus" councils in each of the states, as well as six
           regional councils and one national council. Nucleus councils are made up of
           representatives from academia, the private sector, nongovernmental
           organizations, youth organizations, indigenous peoples, women and gender
           groups.

4.      For its part, the water sector has also mainstreamed participation mechanisms
through provisions defined in the National Water Law (article 14 bis and 15) and its
bylaws (articles 21 and 25). According to this legislation, CONAGUA (jointly with state
and municipal governments, river basin councils, and the national Water Consultative
Council) must convene and facilitate citizen participation in the planning, decision-
making, execution, evaluation and monitoring of the national water policy. Specifically,
the law establishes the creation of river basin councils as entities representing users and
civil society organizations (at least 50 percent of the membership). The river basin
councils, in turn, support river basin organizations (organismos de cuenca) which are also
supported by basin commissions and committees at the micro-regional level.53

5.      In the area of climate change, creation of the Inter-Ministerial Commission on
Climate Change led to the establishment of the Consultative Council on Climate Change
(C4) as a "permanent CICC consultation body comprised of 23 specialists from the
academic, social and private sectors, that follow-up the Commission's work in order to
evaluate its performance and present recommendations to improve or strengthen its
actions."54 CICC convened two public consultations in 2008 and 2009 to generate
comments on the proposed contents of the Special Climate Change Program (PECC).55
Drafting of the Fourth Communication also entailed a consultative process with
participation from universities and research centers, professional and private sector
associations and nongovernmental organizations.56

6.      The normative framework in the water sectors follows a rulemaking procedure
that includes a mandatory 60-day notice and comment period.57 The public consultation
of Mexican Official Norm 014 (artificial recharge of aquifers with treated wastewater)


53
   National Water Law (Ley de Aguas Nacionales), accessed at
 http://www.conagua.gob.mx/Espaniol/TmpContenido.aspx?Id=Leyes|MARCO percent20NORMATIVO|6|0|0|0|0
54
   www.semarnat.gob.mx/
55
     The public consultations took place in June-July 2008 and in March-April 2009. See
http://www.semarnat.gob.mx/queessemarnat/consultaspublicas/Pages/programaespecialdecambioclimatico.aspx
56
    "México. Cuarta Comunicación Nacional ante la Convención Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio
Climático", III. Arreglos Institucionales, p. 119, 2009. Accessed at
http://www2.ine.gob.mx/publicaciones/consultaPublicacion.html?id_pub=615
57
   Article 47, Ley de Normalizacion

                                                   72
and NOM 015 (artificial recharge of aquifers with rain water) took place in June and July
2009, respectively, with comments and responses recorded in the official gazette.58
Moreover, CONAGUA has partnered with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to draft the
rules to regulate and establish the Environmental Flow. The NOM will be published in
2010, and is currently undergoing expert review. WWF is inviting experts to be part of
the working group and discuss the review process. This is the first time that CONAGUA
has involved civil society organizations in the design of its norms in such an active form.

7.      Although consultation and participation mechanisms in water and sanitation
programs vary depending on their particular design features, there are two main
mechanisms. First, programs may receive feedback from users (including municipal and
inter-municipal water utilities operators) and nongovernmental organizations
participating in river basin councils. Second, the Rural and Urban Programs, and the
Clean Water Program are subject to CONAGUA's guidelines for the promotion and
operation of contralorias sociales (social monitoring), in compliance with the federal
government's social monitoring guidelines issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration, which apply to all federal social development programs. The
contralorias sociales in these water programs involve the participation of beneficiaries in
the direct monitoring of works and other activities funded by the program.

8.      Overall, the government of Mexico has a broad and highly institutionalized
framework of participation in the environmental and water sectors. A quick desk review
of civil society organizations dedicated to environmental issues showed that several
nongovernmental organizations (including local chapters of international organizations
such as Oxfam, Greenpeace and The Nature Conservancy), as well as other national
NGOs with environmental expertise participate in the consultation processes, with a
majority of them specifically monitoring climate change at the country level. In both the
environmental and the water sector, participation is concentrated among organizations
with technical expertise (including the mentioned NGOs) and with a heavy representation
of universities and research centers, both at the national and at the regional level. Active
citizen participation at the local level is still incipient, at least for groundwater
management (World Bank 2009). Advice on how to strengthen it will be part of the
policy dialogue during implementation of the DPL, particularly with regards to watershed
management and river basin councils. Recommendations in this regard are also likely to
emerge from the upcoming PSIA on climate change adaptation.




58
     Starting on June 3rd. and July 25th, 2009, respectively.

                                                                73
   ANNEX 6: POLICY INSTRUMENTS FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE
                 CHANGE IN THE WATER SECTOR
1.     The PECC recognizes the acute water stress that Mexico suffers and establishes
the following objectives to overcome the problem:

                Improving the availability and quality of water: Mexico has critical and
       urgent water-related problems including the overexploitation and pollution of
       surface and groundwater. More than 50 percent of the groundwater used in the
       country comes from overexploited aquifers, affecting primarily domestic and
       industrial use. The current situation is not sustainable in the medium and long
       term, and will be clearly exacerbated by the effects of climate change. If not
       addressed soon, this issue will become an obstacle to continued economic
       development and will have serious negative impacts on efforts to reduce poverty.
       The PECC proposes several measures to improve this situation, such as
       increasing water access, coverage, and treatment volumes in both urban and rural
       areas, and setting ambitious coverage goals.

                 Strengthening adaptation capacities to extreme hydrometeorological
       events: The foreseeable alteration of rain patterns and higher incidence of
       hurricanes, together with inefficient agricultural practices, the overexploitation of
       aquifers, and insufficient treatment of urban and industrial waters, will increase
       the vulnerability of water resources. The PECC sets as a top priority the
       identification of vulnerable and overexploited water basins and aquifers and the
       development of sustainable water management plans for watersheds and
       aquifers. It also describes the actions to be taken in case of an emergency to
       ensure the safety of the population by protecting, and in extreme cases,
       resettling, vulnerable communities, and formulating communication plans and
       outreach campaigns. The key element is the introduction of the concept of
       ecological planning as a tool to enhance the ability to respond to these
       emergencies. Important components include the consolidation of a national
       meteorological and hydrological observatory and further investment in R&D to
       deepen knowledge about the impacts of climate change on the water cycle.

                Reducing the vulnerability of human settlements and hydraulic
       infrastructure and incorporating integrated risk management actions: The goal
       is to modernize the existing infrastructure and strengthen the planning capacities
       through the development of ecological planning programs that incorporate
       elements of protection of human settlements and productive areas in high-risk
       zones, the rehabilitation of dams, and the reestablishment of water and sanitation
       services to their full capacity following emergencies.

                Consolidating a national system for meteorological and hydrological
       information: There is a well-established platform for meteorological and
       hydrological observation, composed of several federal and state agencies that
       form the basis on which to build integrated climate change capacities for the long
       term. This national system has to be further consolidated by putting more
       systems and observation sites into operation.

                                            74
                 Increasing knowledge about the impacts of climate change on water
       resources and their vulnerability: Adaptation capabilities can only develop if
       there is more scientific and technological state-of-the-art information on climate
       modeling and water resources. The objectives include the development of several
       studies of regional characteristics under different climate change scenarios, the
       development of modeling tools to evaluate and identify possible impacts, and the
       performance of cost-risk analyses of adaptation measures in new construction.
       Another part of the strategy involves training decisionmakers in the use of
       climatic information and in its application in the prevention of disasters related to
       climatic risks at the regional, state, and national level.

                Water conservation and modernization of the irrigation districts: The
       vulnerability of the agricultural sector varies greatly depending on the region, the
       crops, and the technologies used, as well as the variability of the hydraulic
       regime. As a consequence of worsening climate conditions, it is estimated that
       there will be variations in soil degradation rates, increased salinity in irrigated
       areas, increased losses due to extreme events, and changes in production
       patterns. The aim of the PECC is to establish a comprehensive adaptation
       process in the agricultural sector. The goals are to reduce the vulnerability of the
       agricultural sector and ensure the conservation of agrobiodiversity in the face of
       climate change, and to modernize the hydroagricultural infrastructure and
       increase the productivity of water in the irrigation districts.

2.      The PECC follows the phased approach proposed under the Adaptation Policy
Framework to Climate Change (UNDP 2005). Thus, the PECC establishes three main
stages in the development and implementation of the Adaptation Program (see Table 6-
1). The first stage (2008­2012) includes an evaluation of the country's vulnerability and
an economic assessment of the priority measures. The development of the first
comprehensive national adaptation proposal is in line with the objectives of this
operation. The second stage (2013­2030) comprises the strengthening of national,
regional, and sectoral adaptation strategic capabilities. The policies supported by this
Adaptation to Climate Change DPL in the water sector coincide with various objectives
of the second stage, such as strengthening and reformulating public adaptation policies
related to sustainability and introducing sustainability criteria in sectoral programs. The
third stage (2031­2050) will consolidate the acquired capabilities.




                                            75
                 Table 6-1: Stages of the Long-term Adaptation Path in Mexico
                 First Stage                               Second Stage                       Third Stage


    Evaluation of Vulnerability and                                                       Consolidation of
          Assessment of the                   Strengthening of Specific Capacities
                                                                                            Capacities
        Economic Implications

2008                           2012           2013                         2030        2031            2050

 Special Program on Climate Change,              Construction of Indicator and            Long-term Goals
              2009­2012                              Monitoring Systems                Indicating the Degree
                                                                                       of Adaptation by 2050

                       Adaptation and         Crosscutting adaptation measures.        Development planning
                       mitigation cost                                                 with a focus on
                       inventory for key      Costs of adaptation and mitigation are   ecosystem integrity.
                       economic sectors.      accounted in the GDP.
Long-term
vision on              First proposal on      Sectoral programs integrate
mitigation and         national               environmental sustainability and
adaptation             comprehensive
                                              climatic stability criteria.
                       adaptation.
                                              Formulation and evaluation of public
                       Pilot project in                                                National civil
                       high-risk sites.       policies on adaptation, and
                                              modification of existing policies.       protection system
                       First review of                                                 deeply restructured.
Mitigation and         key instruments in     Balance between
adaptation             sectoral economic      degradation/deforestation with
according to the       policy.                restoration/reforestation.
long-term goals
                       First proposal of      National planning system chooses
                       adjustment of the                                               Territorial planning of
                                              sustainable development options that
                       national planning                                               human settlements and
                                              suit the adaptation objectives.
                       system for Strategic                                            large infrastructure.
                       Adaptation to
                                              Regional and national programs in
                       Climate Change.
National Civil                                operation to resettle high-risk human
Protection System      Proposal to            settlements and infrastructure.
(SINAPROC) as a        strengthen
platform for long-     SINAPROC               Balance in the emissions caused by       National coastal
term adaptation        following an           deforestation and carbon capture         protection system for
                       Integrated Risk        through reforestation.                   natural and human
                       Management
                                                                                       systems.
                       Approach.

                       National Atlas of
                       Vulnerability to CC
                       coordinated by
                       different agencies.




                                                      76
            Table 6-2: Status of National Communications Submitted to the UNFCCC

                Initial National      Second          Third           Fourth          Fifth
                Communication      Communication   Communication   Communication   Communication

  Annex 1:
                                                                                         
    G-8                                                                            (Except Italy and
                                                                                       the US)

    EU                                                                                    

 Non-Annex
     1:
 "+5"Group

  Mexico                                                                

   Brazil              

   China               

    India              
   South
                       
   Africa
   Other:

 Argentina                              

   Bolivia                              

 Costa Rica                             
 Democratic
 Republic of                            
   Congo
 Dominican
                                        
  Republic
   Niger                                

Source: UNFCCC (March 2008).

   Links between the PND, the PECC and the PNH and Progress in These Areas

   3.      The National Development Plan is being implemented through special and
   sectoral programs. Special programs promote key cross-cutting initiatives coordinated
   by several federal ministries, while the sectoral programs develop an array of objectives
   and strategies from the PND that fall under their purview, in order to promote them at all
   government levels within the specific sector. Two main programs provide the foundation
   for the implementation of the National Development Plan with respect to water and
   adaptation to climate change; namely, the National Water Plan and the Special Program
   for Climate Change.
                                                   77
  4.     The PND has five pillars: (a) rule of law and security; (b) competitive economy
  that generates jobs; (c) equal development opportunities; (d) environmental
  sustainability; and (e) effective democracy and responsible foreign policy. The
  Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL promotes actions within the
  fourth PND pillar that have a positive impact on other portions of the Plan, such as
  enhancing competitiveness and promoting equitable development opportunities.

  5.      Table 6-3 presents the objectives and strategies of the PND's sustainable
  development pillar, which are directly related to this DPL. Table 6-4 shows how
  implementation of the PND relates to the Programs' objectives and strategies, as well as
  how the program helps achieve the PND's goals. The first column shows the PNH
  strategy and the matching PECC strategy; the second column identifies the actions taken
  according to the Programs' indicators, as per the third Governmental Progress Report;
  the third column shows the PND pillars to which the programs are contributing, as stated
  in the PNH and PECC.

  Table 6-3: Objectives and strategies of the National Development Plan (PND) 2007-
  2012 strongly related to the Adaptation to climate Change in the Water Sector DPL

                                   Pillar - Sustainable Development

         Linked Objectives                                     Linked Strategies
                                           1.1 Promote the development of infrastructure to meet
                                           existing needs for water services and sanitation in the
                                           country.
Objective 1. Increase coverage of safe     1.2 Encourage a culture that emphasizes water saving and
water and sanitation in the country.       the rational use of it in the domestic, industrial and
                                           agricultural plain fields.
                                           1.3 Promote the development and dissemination of more
                                           effective and efficient technologies for drinking water,
                                           water use and treatment.
                                           2.1 Strengthening technical and financial self-sufficiency
                                           of operating bodies of water.
Objective 2. Achieve a                     2.2 Expand the capacity of wastewater treatment in the
comprehensive and sustainable              country and the use of treated water.
management of water.                       2.3 Promote integrated and sustainable management of
                                           water from a watershed perspective
                                           2.4 Promote efficient water use in agricultural activities to
                                           reduce fluid consumption while protecting soil salinization.
Objective 3. Stop the deterioration of     3.1 Carry out forest restoration programs throughout the
forests in Mexico.                         country as a scheme of conservation of ecosystems.
Objective 5. Integrate conservation of     5.1 Promote the implementation of cleaner technologies
natural capital with the country's         and friendly environment among the country's productive
social and economic development.           sectors.
Objective 6. Ensure that the               6.4 Ensure adequate legal framework for implementation
management and implementation of           of the authority and ensure strict compliance with
environmental law are effective,           environmental legal system through inspection activities,
efficient, expeditious, transparent and
                                                78
encourage sustainable investments.             monitoring and damage repair.
Objective 8. Ensure close                      8.2 Participate actively in international efforts towards
coordination and integration of efforts        environmental sustainability.
among the agencies of the Federal
Government, the three tiers of
government and the three branches of
government for the development and
implementation of policies related to
environmental sustainability.
                                               11.2 Develop regional climate scenarios for Mexico.
                                               11.3 Evaluate impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to
Objective 11. Promote measures to              climate change in different socioeconomic sectors and
adapt to climate change impacts.               ecological systems.
                                               11.4 Promote the dissemination of information on impacts,
                                               vulnerability and adaptation to climate change.
Objective 13. Build scientific and             13.2 Enhancing international cooperation in environmental
technical information to enable the            research, enabling the country to tap existing financing
advancement of knowledge on                    mechanisms that serve to complement national efforts in
priority environmental issues to               this area.
support decision making of the
Mexican state and facilitate
responsible and aware public
participation.

   Table 6-4: Links between the PNH, the PECC and the National Development Plan.
                                                                                                  PND
 PNH (and PECC strategies)                               Progress (2009)                       strategies
                                                                                               triggered
Objective 1: To improve water productivity in the agricultural sector
                                                                                              1.2, 1.3, 2.4,
 1.1 Modernize infrastructure          29477 hectares incorporated to irrigation (2007-       5.1
 and farmland technology                2009).
 upgrade in coordination with          39000 new hectares incorporated to the
 users and local authorities.          modernized irrigation program in 2009.
 (3.3.2 PECC)                          442,863 hectares have been upgraded and
                                       rehabilitated (2007-2009).
 1.5 Encourage the                                                                            2.4
                                       In 2009 380 Irrigation Units are organized,
 development and                          compared to 144 in 2007.
 consolidation of agricultural
 user organizations.
                                                                                              2.4
 1.7 Widen the agricultural            1350 hectares incorporated to technified rainfed
 frontier for irrigation and              farming (2007-2009), from a total of 4750
 technified rainfed farming in            hectares from January 2007 to June 2009
 zones with water availability
 through land-use planning.

Objective 2: Increase the access and Quality of Water, Drainage and sanitation Services


                                                    79
                                                                                           1.2, 1.2, 1.3,
 2.1 Strengthen technical           From 2007 to 2009, CONAGUA registered an               2.1
 development and financial           increase in WUs efficiency according to the
 self-sufficiency of Water           measures taken from 80 Water Utilities (sample
 Utilities in the country by         group) that follow the Program of Evaluation and
 increasing its overall              Monitoring of the Management Indicators for
 efficiency and better               Reaching Global Efficiency.          The global
 services.                           efficiency in 2007 was 37.25 percent and, in 2009,
                                     increased to 39.7 percent.
                                                                                           1.1,1.2, 1.3,
 2.2 Treat the generated            90911,6 liters per second of treated water in 2009     1.2, 5.1
 wastewater and encourage its       43.5 percent water treatment coverage in 2009,
 reuse and sharing. (2.4.3           compared to 36.1 percent in 2007.
 PECC)
                                                                                           1.1
 2.4 Increase coverage of           75.2 percent of drinking water coverage in 2009,
 drinking water and sanitation       compared to 74.7 in 2007.
 in rural communities,              60.8 percent coverage in sanitation in 2009,
 leading to the sustainability       compared to 59.9 in 2007.
 of services. (3.2.1 PECC)
                                                                                           1.1
 2.5 Increase coverage of           95.4 percent of drinking water coverage in urban
 water and sanitation in urban      areas, compared to 94.5 in 2007.
 communities, leading the           95.0 percent coverage of drilling in urban areas,
 sustainability of services.        compared to 94.2 in 2007.
 (3.2.1 PECC)
                                                                                           1.1
 2.6 Improve the quality of         97.1 percent of disinfected water coverage in 2009
 water supplied to                  compared to 96.2 percent in 2007.
 populations. (3.2.1 PECC)          318.6 m3/s of disinfected flow
Objective 3: Promote the integral and sustainable water management in basins and aquifers
                                                                                           2.2
 3.2 Strengthen the quality of      For the biological oxygen demand indicator of
 water in the Comprehensive          water quality (DBO5), in 2008 the quality was
 Water Management. (3.2.1            40.6 percent, (monitored in 528 stations); the
 PECC)                               value of 2007 was 38.2 percent.
                                                                                           2.2, 2.4
 3.3 Develop incentives and         Up to 2010, 6 Water banks are in operation; there
 economic instruments                were no Water Banks operating in 2007.
 promoting the preservation
 of the country's rivers, lakes,
 wetlands, river basins,
 aquifers, and coasts. (4.3.7
 PECC)
                                                                                           2.2, 2.4
 3.4 Consolidate a                  Installation of volumetric flow measurement
 comprehensive system for            instruments in order to improve the calculations of
 measuring the different             the water extracted from every source: for 2009,
 components of the                   the government programmed MX$ 49.5 million to
 hydrological cycle. (3.2.5.         purchase 232 flow meters. Up to June 2009,
 PECC)                               MX$14.9 millions have been invested in the
                                     purchase of 82 flow meters. From 2007 to June
                                     2009, the government has purchased 733 flow
                                     meters.

                                                80
                                                                                       1.3
3.5 Develop legislation to       Publication in the Diario Oficial of two Official
promote aquifer recharge          Mexican Norms: NOM 14 and NOM 15,
                                  promoting the recharge of aquifers with rain water
                                  and with treated wastewater.
3.6 Publish the availability     In 2009 the availability of 282 aquifers and 722
of water in aquifers and          basins was published.
basins of the country (3.2.2
PECC)
                                                                                       1.2, 2.4
3.8 Regulate the use of water    1 Declaration of Groundwater Reserve published,
in major river basins and         9 technical studies already elaborated and under
aquifers in the country.          review.
(3.2.2 PECC)
                                                                                       2.3
3.12 Strengthen the              In November 2008, the Northern Border Program
cooperation schemes which         2008-12 was published in SEMARNAT's
will achieve sustainable          webpage. Up to date, the main outputs of the
water management in trans         Program are: increased drilling coverage to 89.9
boundary basins according to      percent in urban areas; 82 percent of wastewater
their regulations.                treated; 2,598 hectares of forest plantations and
                                  17,369.3 hectares with soil restoration; two
                                  territorial management programs in Burgos'
                                  Basin; the promotion of 28 bilateral projects and
                                  actions.
                                                                                       2.3
3.13 Promote the                 Agreement on internationally relevant wetlands
development of national           (Ramsar): México has worked intensively in the
wetland inventory. (3.3.9,        recognition of wetlands for preservation. The
3.4.2 PECC)                       country has the second world place in number of
                                  wetlands registered in the Ramsar List
                                  (corresponding to 8 million of hectares). The most
                                  recently included wetland is located in Bahía
                                  Adair, Sonora.
                                                                                       2.3
3.14 Institutionalize the        The River Basin Councils have agreed in the first
process of Planning,             semester of 2009 on specific actions to promote
Programming, Budgeting           water quality improvement, strengthen its
and the mandatory                distribution and efficient use, and foster the
application of the water         conservation of ecosystems.
programs for priority            In 2009, 9 Auxiliary Units of the River Basin
watersheds. (3.2.2 PECC)         Councils have been supported to formulate their
                                 own management plans (6 Auxiliary Units
                                 completed their plans in 2007 and 25 Auxiliary
                                 Units in 2008). During the first semester of 2009,
                                 operational support has been given to 5 River
                                 Basin Councils and 25 Auxiliary Units for the
                                 installation of management agencies and the
                                 strengthening of the existing ones.
                                                                                       2.3
3.15 Encourage the               Mexican Norm on Ecological Flow under
preservation of ecosystems        discussion in the working group.
in the country trying to keep
the channels in the volumes

                                             81
required. (3.4.2, 3.4.3, 3.6.2)

Objective 4: Improve the technical, administrative and financial development of the water sector.
                                                                                          1.1, 2.2, 2.4
4.1 Increase budgetary and         CONAGUA's budget for operation, conservation
financial resources, and             and development of water infrastructure increased
improve their distribution           11.5 percent from 2008 to 2009 and 6.1 percent
and implementation of                from 2007 to 2009.
investment projects in the
water sector.
                                                                                          1.2, 1.3, 2.4,
4.3 Consolidate applied            The National Council of Water Sector Science and       5.1
research and technology            Technology was created the 28th of March 2008.
transfer. (4.5 PECC)               The aim of this Council is to coordinate efforts
                                   (SEMARNAT-CONAGUA-CONACyT)                     to
                                   achieve the objectives of the PNH and the PECC.
                                   By the end of 2008, the IMTA leveraged
                                   resources in the amount of 377.3 million to
                                   undertake 205 research and technology
                                   development projects. These projects are related
                                   to integrated water resource management. From
                                   the 205 projects, 44 were implemented with
                                   federal resources and 161 with self-generated
                                   resources.
                                   From January to June 2009, 78 additional projects
                                   have been initiated; the goal is to complete 190
                                   projects by the end of the year with an approved
                                   federal budget of MX$388.8 million.
                                                                                          2.3, 6.4
4.5 Promote compliance             From January 2007 to May 2009 8,482 inspection
with existing legal                  visits were paid to verify the compliance to the
framework and promote                National Water Law and its Rules.
development of tools to
strengthen the proper use
and sustainable water
management.
                                                                                          13.2
4.7 Participate in the             Mexico is hosting the COP 16 in November 2010
deliberations and actions in         and is so far the only Non-Annex 1 Country to
relation to water in the             have submitted four Communications of the
international arena. (4.2.2          UNFCCC
PECC)

Objective 5: To consolidate the participation of users and organized society in water management and
to promote a culture for the proper use of this resource
                                                                                            1.2,     2.1,
5.1 Build awareness among          2 national campaigns in 2009: "Water culture: fair       2.4
the population on the                price 4th edition" (these type of campaigns were
obligation to pay for water          also held in 2007 and 2008); and "Water Culture;
and its responsible use.             new habits". In 2008, the "Efficient water use"
(3.2.5 PECC)                         campaign was held.

                                                                                            1.2,     2.1,
5.2 Inform the population in       Bulletins, information on relevant events, and           2.4
a timely, effective way about        other institutional materials are available to the
                                               82
water scarcity, the costs of        public through the CONAGUA's webpage.
supplying water, how to use
it responsibly, and its
economic, sanitary, social,
and environmental values.
                                                                                            1.2,       2.1,
5.3 Promote educational and       In 2009 the Water Culture program supported 31            2.4
communication programs to           federative entities, one more State compared to
foster water culture.               2007. From 2007 until the end of 2008, 349
                                    Water Culture Spaces were opened (the operation
                                    of the 482 already in place was strengthened), 550
                                    events were organized, 596 learning materials
                                    were delivered and 312 training workshops on
                                    water culture were held. In 2009, there were 1352
                                    Water Culture Spaces; compared to 1120 in 2006
                                    (the goal for 2009 was the opening of 139 water
                                    culture spaces).
                                                                                           1.2
5.4 Position the topic of         The goal to implement Water Culture Programs in
water as a strategic resource       the country's 32 states (the Capital District) has
upon which national security        been reached in 31 States, only Sonora is missing.
depends.
                                                                                           2.3
5.5 Consolidate the               Currently 26 River Basin Councils are established,
managerial autonomy of            the most recent one began to operate in 2009 (100
River Basin Councils.             percent of the national territory covered). There
                                  were 25 River Basin Councils in 2007.
                                  During 2009, 18 of the 26 River Basin Councils
                                  were supported to execute priority actions as set in
                                  their working and action plans.
                                                                                           2.3
5.6 Strengthen the                In 2009, 9 Auxiliary Units of the River Basin
managerial autonomy of the          Councils have been supported to formulate their
auxiliary bodies of River           own management plans (6 Auxiliary Units
Basin Councils.                     completed their plans in 2007 and 15 Auxiliary
                                    Units in 2008). During the first semester of 2009,
                                    operational support was provided to 5 River Basin
                                    Councils and 25 Auxiliary Units for the
                                    installation of management agencies and the
                                    strengthening of the existing ones.
                                                                                            1.2, 2.1
5.7 Foster the institutional      PATME is supporting water utilities at national
development of agencies and         level in the implementation of efficiency
organizations participating in      improvement actions; through PATME, technical
water management.                   assistance     and    institutional    strengthening
                                    activities, such as capacity building, are provided.
                                    During the second semester of 2009 workshops on
                                    billing and water supply network sectorization
                                    were held for water utilities; during 2008 WUs
                                    attended workshops on commercial systems and
                                    electromecanic efficiency.

Objective 6: Prevent the risks


                                               83
                                                                                       Contributing
6.1 Promote the relocation of     16 Atlases of Risk and hazard prevention have        to strategies
human settlements located in      been published.                                      of the (i),
risk areas.                       Between January 2007 and June 2009                   (ii) and (iii)
                                  MX$2,021.7 million from federal sources and          PND pillars.
                                  MX$ 559.6 million from non-federal sources
                                  have been used to support 26908 actions in Baja
                                  California Sur, Campeche, Chiapas, Distrito
                                  Federal, Hidalgo, Quintana Roo, Sinaloa, Sonora,
                                  Tabasco, Tamaulipas y Veracruz.
                                                                                       Contributing
6.2 Provide the National Civil    63462 meteorological bulletins have been issued      to strategies
Protection System and the         from September 2008 to August 2009.                  of the (i),
population with timely,           During the first semester of 2009, the SMN           (ii) and (iii)
reliable information on the       website had 1,553,646 visits.                        PND pillars.
occurrence and evolution of
severe meteorological and
hydrometeorological events.
                                                                                       Contributing
6.3 Transform, renovate, and      The National Meteorological System performs          to strategies
modernize the National            monitoring through 18 observatories, 9               of the (i),
Meteorological Service and to     meteorological stations, 11 meteorological           (ii) and (iii)
widen its monitoring              radars, 15 radio-sensing stations. 2834              PND pillars.
coverage.                         conventional meteorological stations are under
                                  operation, as well as 615 hydrometric stations
                                  and 215 hydro climatologic stations.
                                  The current capacities in terms of infrastructure
                                  and human resources of the different
                                  meteorological information and monitoring
                                  systems were diagnosed; recommendations were
                                  emitted to improve the development and quality
                                  of information for climate change research.
                                                                                       2.3, 3.1
6.5 Implement the actions of      In the frame of the Coordination Agreement for
restoration and preservation       the Recovery and Sustainability of Cuenca
in the upper reaches of the        Lerma Chapala, the following progress has been
watersheds to reduce runoff        achieved (from September 2008 to august 2009):
and possible effects.              the Program of Integrated Natural Resource
                                   Management in Micro Basins received an
                                   investment of $4.2 million in 21 micro basins.
                                                                                       Contributing
6.6 Conduct preventive            The Program for Prevention and Attention to          to strategies
actions that make it possible      hydrometeoriological events (Programa de            of the (i),
to be in a better position to      Prevención de Inundaciones y Atención de            (ii) and (iii)
face hydrometeorological           Emergencias) promotes the implementation of         PND pillars.
events. (PECC 3.2.3)               prevention and contingency programs in
                                   populated as well as productive areas:
6.7 Maintain, conserve, and        The program for protection of populated areas
expand water infrastructure to     (Programa de Control de Avenidas para
protect population centers and     Protección de Centros de Población) aims at
productive areas.                  diminishing the damages caused by floods. From
(PECC 3.2.2)                       June to January 2009, MX$537.2 million were
                                   spent. Taking into account the resources invested
                                   from 2007 to June 2009, the total amount is
                                             84
                                      MX$3,102.2 million; 86 percent (MX$2,671.5
                                      million) were provided by the Federal
                                      Government and 14 percent (MX$ 430.7 million)
                                      by the States.
                                      The program for protection of productive areas
                                      (Programa de Control de Avenidas para
                                      Protección de Áreas Productivas) invested
                                      $MX231.7 million in public infrastructure from
                                      2007 to June 2009.
                                    The National Program of Dam Security aims at
                                      supervising the main hydraulic infrastructure:
                                      844 hydraulic installations were supervised from
                                      January 2007 to May 2009.
                                                                                           Contributing
6.8 Promote ecological land-        14 ecological planning plans for priority areas (7     to strategies
use programs in regions at            in 2009) have been elaborated.                       of the (i),
risk due to                         The Technical Study on the General territorial         (ii) and (iii)
hydrometeorological events.           Ecological Planning has been submitted.              PND pillars.

Objective 7: To assess the effects of climate change on the hydrological cycle
                                                                                           11.2
7.1 Evaluate the effects of        The National Ecology Institute (Instituto Nacional
climate change on the                de Ecología INE) has elaborated 19 studies from
hydrological cycle variables.        2007 to 2009 related to impacts of climate change
(3.2.5 PECC)                         for human health, meteorological prognosis,
                                     vulnerability of southeastern states to climate
                                     change and adaptation of ecosystems and species
                                     to climate change among others. (e.g the
                                     "Evaluation of the Frequency and Intensity of
                                     Extreme Meteorological Events and Regional
                                     Level Hurricanes to Prevent Their Effects in the
                                     Future Due to Variability and Climate Change in
                                     Mexico" and "Identification and Evaluation of the
                                     Impacts of Climate Change in Geographical
                                     Distribution of the Ecosystems in Mexico".
                                     Climate change scenarios for 2030 and 2050 have
                                     been developed, based on general models and the
                                     application of statistical techniques.
                                     Hydrological processes in the Guayalejo-Tamesí
                                     river basin have been studied, as well as the water
                                     demand and the hydraulic infrastructure in place.
                                     Adaptation measures were identified, emphasizing
                                     irrigation technology upgrade and the shift to
                                     more sustainable crops.
                                     The vulnerability of Mexico's southeastern states
                                     in the face of extreme rains and climate change in
                                     Tabasco has been assessed. Adaptation and
                                     Prevention measures have been proposed.
                                     Two regional climatic scenarios for Mexico at a
                                     50X50 scale were elaborated to have data at a
                                     higher resolution, to help develop the state level
                                     climate change actions plans.
                                                85
                       ANNEX 7: WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONS

1.       The National Water Law assigns responsibilities to sector institutions at the
federal, state and local levels. At the federal level the relevant institution is the National
Water Commission (Comisión Nacional del Agua, CONAGUA), while at the regional
level there are River Basin Organizations (organismos de Cuenca) and at the state level
there are local offices of the CONAGUA, called Direcciones Locales. The state level
institutions include also the state water commissions (Comisiones Estatales de Agua,
CEAs), responsible in terms of potable water. Finally, at the local level the relevant
institutions are the municipalities and water utilities (organismos operadores, OOs), as
well as the irrigation districts and units.

Federal Institutions

2.        Although CONAGUA is a de-concentrated agency of the Ministry of the
Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT), it enjoys a considerable degree of
autonomy. Its mission is managing and preserving the nation's water and inherent assets
to achieve a sustainable use of the resource. The Commission carries out its
administrative, normative, technical and consultative duties in coordination with state and
local government entities and with the participation of water user associations, operators,
academia and institutions representing the private sector and civil society. While
SEMARNAT retains jurisdiction over overall policy-making and coordination of water
with natural resources management (as well as extraordinary circumstances),
CONAGUA is tasked with the design and implementation of the National Water Program
(PNH) and the administration and protection of national waterways. The Commission's
purview includes water resource management and policy, the administration of water
rights, irrigation and drainage issues, and water supply and sanitation. CONAGUA plays
a key role in administering financial flows to all sub-sectors, as well as financing,
developing and operating water infrastructure (water supply, sewerage and wastewater
treatment) and promoting social development (especially through irrigation and the
support of agriculture). CONAGUA is also responsible for the prevention and
management of water-related and meteorological disasters (floods, droughts, hurricanes,
etc.).

3.       CONAGUA is both a federal regulator with ample powers and the main bulk
water supplier entitled to collect water user fees from national water users and from
dischargers of effluent to national bodies of water, as established by the Federal Rights
Law. Since its creation in 1989, the Commission has evolved into a remarkable
institution with many accomplishments. It is internationally recognized in the areas of
policy reform, modernization of water sector and disaster management. However, the
CONAGUA still faces important challenges that need urgent attention. These include
reducing the over-exploitation of aquifers, pollution and the over-allocation of water
rights; promoting decentralization and participation; achieving higher levels of financial
sustainability; and adapting the sector to climate change impact.CONAGUA manages a
budget of about US$ 2,684 billion (2009) 59.



59
     SEMARNAT, Statistics on Water In Mexico-2008 Edition revised August 2009
                                                 86
4.      CONAGUA represents an important experiment in consolidating most aspects of
water resources management into one institution, including: policy, water rights
administration, planning, irrigation and drainage development, and water supply and
sanitation development, whereas, in other countries, these activities are divided among
various institutions.

Regional and State Institutions: The River Basin Organizations

5.      Reforms to the National Water Law undertaken in 2004, resulted in the gradual
transfer of key CONAGUA functions from the federal level to 13 river basin
organizations (formerly known as "hydrographic regions"). Depending on the size and
complexity of the area, a river basin organization can cover several states (total or
partially). It can also be made up of different participatory entities organized such as the
river basin councils, the basin commissions (comisiones de cuenca), the basin committees
(comités de cuenca) and the COTAS (aquifers level committees) These organizations
have started to play an increasing role in the sector since the 2004 reforms.

6.     The river basin organizations (RBO) were conceived as specialized units within
CONAGUA with technical and administrative autonomy to manage the assets and
resources allocated to them by CONAGUA. The RBOs are headed by a Director General
(who is appointed by the Director General of CONAGUA) and an Advisory Council
(Consejo Consultivo). CONAGUA presides over the Advisory Council, which includes
designated representatives from the SHCP, SEDESOL, the Ministry of Economics
(Secretaría de Economía SE), SEMARNAT, the Health Ministry (Secretaría de Salud,
SSA), Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Food
(Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentación),
SAGARPA, CONAFOR, a state representative for each state within the RBOs territory
(or the Distrito Federal when appropriate) and one representative of the municipal
presidents per state. The Director General of the RBOs serves as the Technical Secretary
of the Advisory Council. The Council also includes a designated representative from
among the user representatives in the basin or from the RBCs in the
hydrologic/administrative area. Currently, the user representatives have a voice but not a
vote.

7.      The RBOs are responsible for formulating regional water policy, designing
programs to implement the policies, conducting studies to estimate the value of the
resources generated within their boundaries (water user fees), recommending specific
rates for the water user fees, and operating the necessary mechanisms for collecting the
fees. The RBOs have been vested with enough power to collect information, analyze it
and propose priorities as well as how these priorities should be addressed, and estimate
the resources likely to be originated within their own hydrographic regions.

The River Basin Councils

8.      The River Basin Councils' (RBC) main function is to review and provide input to
activities to improve water resources management and to develop water infrastructure in
their respective basins. . They are intended to serve mainly as advisory councils, making
their members aware of relevant issues and giving them a voice on key issues (such as
investment priorities, water valuation to estimate contribution amounts, technical
                                            87
assessment of water availability, etc.). River basin councils have auxiliary organizations
that carry out similar functions at the sub-basin level (basin commissions) and at the level
of specific aquifers (COTAS). The RBCs are fora for the government, water users and
representatives of other stakeholders that may

9.      More than half of the RBCs' members represent various levels of government,
while the remainder represents users and society as a whole. They are fora for their
members and offer an instance to present and analyze complaints; propose and suggest
solutions; and promote programs, projects and actions, such as pollution control, water
efficiency and basin protection programs. The RBCs can help to resolve conflicts by
developing consensus among various parties involved and recommending actions to
CONAGUA. Basin commissions, basin or water committees and COTAS participate in
the RBCs and are expected to provide technical input as well advance their particular
interests. Twenty-five established RBCs share basin boundaries with the RBOs.
However, in some cases, two or more RBCs are within the area of one RBO. Some states
are located entirely within the area of one RBC, while other states may be divided
between two or more RBCs. In the latter case, the state participates in all of the RBCs
within its territory.

10.    Together with CONAGUA, the RBCs are expected to guide the activities of the
RBOs. However, decisions made by the RBCs are not binding upon the RBOs. RBOs
and RBCs are also expected to play a key role in the administration of the Water
Financial System (Sistema Financiero del Agua, SFA) introduced in 2004 with the
National Water Law.        Under this system, CONAGUA, the RBOs and other
administrative service providers are to encourage users to pay the fees for the use of
national waters (including those underground) for all purposes (including for the
discharge of wastewaters) as established in the Federal Rights Law.

Institutions at the State Level

11.    Water Sector institutional arrangements and legal frameworks vary substantially
among the 31 States. Each State has its own law governing state water policy and
management of water resources. Like the Federal Government, States also prepare 6 year
development plans which include priorities for the water sector. Most States have created
an autonomous State Water Commission (Comisión Estatal del Agua, CEA) to carry out
the water sector functions in their jurisdiction

12.     These Commissions are autonomous entities that usually operate under the
authority of the State Ministry of Public Works. While their attributions differ widely
among states, they all have some authority and responsibility in water resources
management. Some also have responsibilities in irrigation and in the provision of water
supply and sanitation services, such as: (a) the provision of technical assistance to
municipalities and irrigation districts and units; and (b) monitoring of the performance of
service providers, and the operation of water distribution systems and bulk water supply.

13.    In terms of scope and responsibilities, in 20 States the CEAs have an explicit
mandate to provide technical assistance to support municipalities in the provision of
water services. In some States, the CEAs monitor data on the performance of service
providers, but seldom are these data aggregated into a comprehensive information
                                            88
system. The CEAs also have a role in channeling federal and state subsidies to service
providers, although their level of discretion in administering federal funds is limited by
the detailed operational rules of these funds.

14.      In general, the provision of water and sanitation services falls within the purview
of municipalities. For that purpose, most municipalities in Mexico have created water
utilities (Organismos Operadores). The performance of water utilities in Mexico varies
widely among municipalities, with some of them reaching levels similar to the best
performers in Latin America and the Caribbean while others yield very poor results.




                                            89
  ANNEX 8: FEATURES AND RELEVANCE OF KEY FEDERAL PROGRAMS

Overview

1.      While Mexico's National Water Commission (CONAGUA) functions as a branch
of the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources, in practice, it has a good deal
of independence and is in charge of the administration of national waters and water
infrastructure (water supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment).60 CONAGUA fulfills
its mission through the 13 river basin organizations. Additional information on
CONAGUA is available in Annex 7.

2.      Although mean annual precipitation in Mexico is 773 mm, rainfall varies
significantly during the year and among the country's various regions. As a result, water
availability is highly variable, a problem that is compounded by Mexico's geography.
The availability of water does not correspond to the distribution of the population and of
economic activity, creating water stress in several areas of the country. Seventy-seven
percent of Mexico's residents live in the arid and semiarid northern, central and
northeastern regions, an area that accounts for 87 percent of national GDP but receives
only 31 percent of the available water. The discrepancy between the physical supply and
economic demand for water has played out in different ways. Figure 8-1 shows the
contrast between economic development and water availability across various regions.

     Figure 8-1: Regional Development and Water Availability in Mexico, 2007




Source: CONAGUA. Deputy Director General's Office for Planning. Produced based on: CONAGUA.
Deputy Director General's Office for Technical Affairs, and INEGI. 2004 Economic Censuses. Mexico,
2005.



60
    The National Water Law establishes that use of the nation's waters will be made available through a concession
granted by the Federal Executive Branch (through the CONAGUA) by means of the river basin councils, or granted
directly by CONAGUA when appropriate, according to the rules and conditions established in said law and its by-laws.
Similarly, a permit issued by CONAGUA is required to discharge wastewater. Concession and discharge permits are
recorded in the Public Registry of Water Rights (REPDA), which was established in 1992 at the same time that the
National Water Law was enacted.
                                                       90
    3.      Through CONAGUA, the federal government has developed and implemented a
    series of funding programs for the water sector. The aim of these programs is to satisfy
    the demand for irrigation and drinking water, as well as collect and treat wastewater.
    These programs provide financial incentives to conserve the resource through improved
    efficiency in agricultural irrigation, increased access to water services (mainly for the
    poor), optimizing the operation of water utilities (i.e., increasing efficiency), and
    improving the environmental quality of the nation's rivers.

    4.      The formulation of a strategy to mitigate the impacts of climate changes and adapt
    to them must recognize the need to make continuous use of an array of policy options
    with a view to the long term (SEMARNAT 2009b). In line with this strategic guideline,
    CONAGUA's water infrastructure funding programs include a set of incentives to adapt
    to climate change. A selection of CONAGUA's programs is described in the sections
    below, stressing those programs that are related to the adaptation to climate change.
    Table 8-1 provides an overview of CONAGUA's budget for these programs during the
    past three years. Overall, the budget more than doubled between 2006 and 2009. The
    largest program among these is the Program for Drinking Water, Sewerage and
    Wastewater Treatment for Urban Areas, which accounts for almost 50 percent of total
    funds, followed by the Program for Construction and Rehabilitation of Potable Water and
    Sewerage Systems in Rural Areas.

                       Table 8-1: CONAGUA's Budget by Program 2006-2009
                                   (Actual budget - million pesos)
                                                                                                 Total
                  CONAGUA Program                           2006     2007     2008     2009     2007-09
         Program for Drinking Water, Sewerage and
         Wastewater Treatment in Urban Areas                 2,414    4,144    6,082    5,180    15,407
         Program for Construction and Rehabilitation
         of Potable Water and Sewerage Systems in
         Rural Areas                                          845     1,971    2,175    2,136     6,281
         Wastewater Treatment Funding Program                   0         0      600    1,779     2,379
         Program for Rehabilitation and
         Modernization of Irrigation Districts                659     1,163    1,768    1,572     4,503
         Program for Modernization and Technology
         Upgrade of Irrigation Units                           448      718      468      620     1,806
         Land Lot Development Program                           96      119      141      144       404
         Clean Water Program                                    29       39       45       44       128
                           Total                             4,492    8,154   11,279   11,474    30,907
Source: CONAGUA, 2010.

    I.        Irrigation Systems and Institutions

    5.       There are three types of organizations for irrigation systems in Mexico that are
    based on the origin of the infrastructure's financing. These are: irrigation districts
    (distritos de riego), irrigation units (unidades de riego) and private irrigation systems
    (sistemas particulares).

    6.     An irrigation district is a system that supplies water infrastructure services in
    areas of 5,000 ha or more relying on infrastructure that was originally constructed and
                                                       91
operated by the federal government. The administration of irrigation districts has been
transferred to user associations (Asociaciones Civiles de Usuarios, ACUs) by means of
governmental concessions. The Irrigation Management Transfer Program, which is part
of the institutional reform of public irrigation districts, began in 1989 and is enforced
through the 1992 National Water Law. This program improved the management and
conservation of infrastructure by promoting financial autonomy, supervision and
efficiency, thus contributing to the sustainability of irrigated agriculture. Practically all
of Mexico's 85 districts (representing an area of 3.5 million hectares) have been
transferred to 506,000 users organized into 445 water user associations. Federal
resources formerly invested in the operation and maintenance of irrigation districts and in
programs for the technological upgrade of rainfed infrastructure were substantially
decreased as a result of the transference of responsibilities to users. Now, capital
investments can be redirected towards the modernization of irrigation systems or the
construction of infrastructure in other parts of the country.

7.      Irrigation units are smaller-scale irrigation systems wherein each supplies water
infrastructure services to communal farmers who work their land independently or as a
group. Farmers who belong to irrigation units contribute about 40 percent of water
infrastructure (such as wells, diversions, pipes, etc.) and part of the construction costs,
mainly in the form of labor. Once the works are completed, they became the owners of
these facilities and are responsible for operation and maintenance. Most irrigation units
use ground water; the exceptions are the small units that use surface water. Given the size
of these irrigation systems, no specific supervision offices have been created; the training
and empowerment of users ensures the systems performance and CONAGUA oversees
the general operations of the system. There are 39,490 irrigation units covering an area
of 3 millions of hectares.

8.      Private irrigation systems, which cover about 15 percent of the irrigated area, are
counted as irrigation units. These groups incorporate irrigation works developed by the
private sector, which they generally manage as one unit (complejo productivo).

9.       Mexico has the world's seventh largest irrigated area (6.5 million hectares under
irrigation). Water used for agriculture represents around 77 percent of estimated total
national water abstraction, which totals 78.9km3 for the country as a whole. Of the 6.5
million hectares with irrigation facilities in Mexico, about 67 percent are irrigated with
surface water (40.5 km3), and the remaining hectares are served by groundwater pumping
(20.1 km3).

10.     In light of the importance of the agriculture sector in total water use, demand
management and efficiency improvements in irrigation are key drivers of federal
programs. CONAGUA's main programs for water efficiency improvements in the
agriculture are described below, stressing characteristics related to adaptation:

i. Program for the Rehabilitation and Modernization of Irrigation Districts

11.     The aim of the Program for the Rehabilitation and Modernization of Irrigation
Districts (Programa de Rehabilitación y Modernización de Distritos de Riego) is to
achieve the efficient and sustainable use of water resources through the rehabilitation and
modernization of Mexico's hydraulic infrastructure and by improving irrigation
                                            92
technology. Once completed, the infrastructure is transferred to irrigation districts
(distritos de riego). This program provides explicit incentives for the conservation and
efficient use of the resource by:
       a. Funding irrigation systems that reduce water usage (e.g., high- or low-
          pressure systems, or demand-based irrigation)
       b. Implementing low water consumption agriculture (including macro-metering
          of surface and groundwater).

12.     Funding is provided for infrastructure projects, such as the rehabilitation of
canals, the construction of drains, operating roads, water wells and pumping stations for
the development of efficient irrigation systems and agriculture of low water consumption.
The program also provides funding for works supervision, training, and equipment for
water control and metering, as well as for carrying out studies and developing projects.

ii. Development Program for Plots of Land

13.     The Development Program for Plots of Land (Programa de Desarrollo
Parcelario, PRODEP) is geared towards the optimization of service and the operation of
hydraulic infrastructure for agriculture. PRODEP provides funding for acquiring
machinery and equipment for infrastructure maintenance and for the efficient use of
water at the level of individual plots of land by means of improvements in land gradients
to increase irrigation efficiency.

14.     The beneficiaries of this program are ejidatarios and small land tenants. A total of
584,123 users, organized into 468 civic associations, have concessions to hydraulic
infrastructure to irrigate 3.5 million ha in irrigation districts (distritos de riego). The
criteria to assign priorities to the various projects and works that apply to this program
are:
           ACUs and SRLDRs (Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada de Distritos de
           Riego) that have resources available and are not indebted with PRODEP,
           Availability of an assessment of average annual conservation needs and a
           long-term plan of conservation and land gradient development,
           Applications where the use of machinery has been optimized have a higher
           priority,
           Applications that exceed the annual limit in the allocation of resources are
           eligible based on special criteria laid out in the rules of operation.

15.     From 2007 to 2010, PRODEP operation rules have increased federal support for
agricultural units operating hydraulic infrastructure at the level of individual plots and
shifted the program's orientation toward the neediest users' organizations. The increase
in the maximum federal support per application per year has improved the capacity of the
ACUs and SRLs to purchase machinery and equipment for conservation of hydraulic
infrastructure and to improve land gradient for irrigation purposes. This improvement
contributes to a more efficient use of the water at the level of the individual land plot, and
thereby constitutes an adaptation measure.

                                             93
16.     Recent changes in eligibility and selection criteria have increased the focus on
beneficiaries/applicants with less developed infrastructure and higher technological
needs. Priority is now being given to ACUs and SRLs that show the highest need for
machinery and equipment. The consideration of applications that exceed the maximum
federal support limit are now based on an assessment of the conservation and physical
capital needs.

17.     Follow-up indicators have been developed to measure the efficiency and coverage
at the irrigation district level (e.g., productivity of water used, progress in area covered,
and amount of support disbursed). Increased water conservation through improved
efficiency in irrigation contributes to climate change adaptation.

iii. Program for the Modernization and Technological Upgrade of Irrigation Units

18.     The aim of the Program for the Modernization and Technological Upgrade of
Irrigation Units (Programa de Modernización y Tecnificación de Unidades de Riego) is to
improve water productivity in irrigation systems by providing funding to agricultural
producers. Both surface water and groundwater uses are considered in this program. The
program started in 2009 as a merger of two previous programs: the Program for the
Efficient Use of Water and Electricity (Programa de Uso Eficiente de Agua y Energía
Eléctrica) and the Program for Full Use of Agricultural Hydraulic Infrastructure
(Programa de Uso Pleno de la Energía Hidroagrícola).

19.     The objectives of this program are to construct, rehabilitate, complement, expand,
and modernize water infrastructure for water intakes, transportation, and distribution in
Rural Development Irrigation Units (Unidades de Riego para el Desarrollo Rural,
UREDALES). The program promotes water and energy savings through the
rehabilitation of pumping plants, wells, and equipment in these irrigation units, as well as
in private wells located in the irrigation districts. The target population is made up of
agricultural producers, ejidatarios, small landowners, and associations of producers, as
well as producers within the irrigation districts who own their own wells.

20.     One of the conditions to receive funding under the Program for the Modernization
and Technological Upgrade of Irrigation Units is that the water wells in the irrigation unit
must already be overexploited. At the same time, to reduce stress on these wells,
producers must commit to leave 50 percent of the recovered water in the aquifer, while
using only the volume of water allocated to them by CONAGUA, thereby conserving
water. The Program ranks applications for funding based on a set of criteria that gives
priority and incentives to climate change adaptation actions. For example, those projects
where producers give up water rights are ranked higher than those where they do not do
so.

II.   Water Supply and Sanitation

21.    The Mexican constitution establishes that local governments have the primary
responsibility for the provision of water supply, sanitation services and drainage. Because
of the multitude of municipalities (2,446), villages and hamlets (200,000) in Mexico as
well as the different policies and programs, there are a variety of local institutional
arrangements for providing services. Most large cities and some smaller towns have
                                            94
created decentralized municipal service providers (organismos operadores) with varying
degrees of independence. While service providers have their own legal personality and
board, in practice most are closely linked to the municipality, which typically appoints
most board members and the service provider's director. Often, there are also close
financial links between service providers and municipalities, such as the contracting of
debt and the payment of bills by the municipality on behalf of the service provider. In
many cases, accounts are held on a cash basis, not on an accrual basis, and are seldom
audited. In addition, there are usually no performance targets for the service providers.
Nevertheless, there are a few notable exceptions of service providers that operate
efficiently on a commercial basis. The best of these service providers that self-finance a
substantial proportion of their investments have been rated by credit rating agencies.

22.    Generally, in the case of smaller cities and towns water and sanitation services are
provided directly by a department of the municipality. The quality and efficiency of
services in smaller municipalities tend to be lower than in larger municipalities. Inter-
municipal service providers (a common institutional arrangement in some other
countries) that benefit from economies of scale by providing service to groups of small
towns or large metropolitan areas are almost nonexistent in Mexico.

23.    In rural areas, water services are provided directly by the local government or by
user groups (which sometimes take the form of cooperatives). In some cases, the state
water commission provides services in rural areas at the request of villages or
municipalities.

24.   The degree of private sector participation in water supply and sanitation in
Mexico has been limited, and concentrated mainly on build­operate­transfer (BOT)
schemes for wastewater treatment plants.

25.     The last decade has witnessed a significant improvement in coverage of water
supply, sewerage service and wastewater treatment. Between 2000 and 2008, water
supply coverage increased from 87.9 to 90.3 percent, while sewerage service coverage
rose from 76.2 to 86.4 percent and wastewater treatment grew from 23 to 40.2 percent.
The urban and rural divide in service provision has also been falling during the past 20
years; yet it remains evident for both drinking water and sanitation. According to the
2005 census, drinking water coverage for urban areas is 95 percent (up from 89.4 percent
in 1990), while it only reaches 70.7 percent in rural areas (up from 51.2 percent in 1990).
Urban coverage in sanitation is 94.5 percent (compared to 79 percent in 1990), while
rural areas register a coverage rate of only 57.5 percent (compared to 18.1 percent in
1990). Regions of Guerrero, Oaxaca and Chiapas have the lowest drinking water
coverage rates, while Oaxaca and Guerrero, along with the Yucatan also record the
lowest levels of sanitation coverage.

i. Program for Drinking Water, Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment for Urban
   Areas (APAZU)

26.    The Program for Drinking Water, Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment for Urban
Areas (Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento en Zonas Urbanas)
funds the development of drinking water, sewerage, and wastewater treatment systems in
urban areas with more than 2,500 residents. APAZU provides financial resources for the
                                           95
construction, expansion, rehabilitation, and improvement of water infrastructure, as well
as for efficiency improvement in water utilities and smart water use.

27.     From the standpoint of adaptation to climate change, APAZU provides funding to
projects that improve efficiency in operations and water use, including reduction of non-
revenue water. The program also ranks applications for funding based on a set of criteria
that gives priority to climate change adaptation actions such as the implementation of
water network improvements, leakage detection and prevention, and
commercial/financial efficiency measures by water utilities.

28.   In the past two years, CONAGUA has modified APAZU to improve adaptation
measures (no-regrets-type), including those listed below.
           Projects related to the recovery of aquifers became a target for federal funding
           under the APAZU program.
           Urban water drainage has been included in APAZU. In 2009, the subsidy for
           urban drainage was increased from 50 to 60 percent.
           The concept of poor/marginal populations has been incorporated by providing
           20 percent additional funding to projects that provided sewerage to residents
           who are not connected to the system (most likely marginal populations).
           Assistance to poor/marginal populations was recently increased. This was
           achieved by providing 10 percent additional funding to persons with high to
           very high marginal levels, and up to 100 percent funding to populations with
           the lowest human development index.
           In 2010, the subsidy was increased from 60 to 70 percent for wastewater
           treatment projects and for projects to improve commercial and physical
           efficiency for communities whose size ranges between 2,500 and 10,000
           residents.
ii. Wastewater Treatment Funding Program

29.    The aim of the Wastewater Treatment Funding Program (Programa de Fondos
Concursables para Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales) is to increase wastewater treatment
in localities with over 2,500 residents. This program provides funding to cover a
percentage of capital expenditures, as well as a subsidy for operation and maintenance
(O&M) costs. O&M costs are partly funded through payments based on the volume of
wastewater treated to pre-defined quality standards. It provides additional incentives for
wastewater reuse activities.

30.    This program ranks proposals for funding based on a set of criteria that gives
higher priority to climate change adaptation actions. For example, projects leading to the
reuse of treated effluent and those that use treated water to substitute for `first-use-water.'
Another aspect of this program that fosters adaptation is the provision of support to the
most vulnerable populations (vulnerability defined based on the marginalization index).




                                             96
ANNEX 9: PROGRAM FOR WATER SUSTAINABILITY IN THE MEXICO VALLEY

Background

  1.      The Valley of Mexico watershed has been overexploited for a long time.61
  Excessive extraction of groundwater for human activities causes the City of Mexico to
  sink at an average rate of 10 cm/year (max. rate of 40 cm/year).62 Continuous sinking of
  the terrain has reduced the capacity of drainage systems to evacuate water, thereby
  making the city and its inhabitants more vulnerable to climate change.63 Recurring
  flooding events during rainstorms are examples of the vulnerability of the system.

  2.      Other sources of water from outside the watershed have been incorporated into
  the system; namely, Sistema Lerma in the 1950s and Sistema Cutzamala in the 1970s.
  Yet, these additional sources are not sufficient to avoid aquifer overexploitation.

  3.      Municipal and industrial wastewater generated in the Valley of Mexico is
  collected in sewers, where it is combined with rainwater. Due to seasonal rain patterns,
  the quality and quantity of water transported in these sewers are highly variable
  throughout the year. Most of this wastewater is currently untreated. Figure 9-1 shows the
  current water situation in the Valley of Mexico.

  4.      To mitigate the vulnerability of the system and eliminate these water imbalances,
  the Programa de Sustentabilidad Hídrica del Valle de México was launched in 2008. The
  specific objectives of the program are to: (a) expand the drainage capacity of the
  Metropolitan Area of Mexico system through construction of the Túnel Emisor Oriente,
  and complementary works; (b) reduce the over-exploitation of aquifers for agricultural,
  industrial, and urban purposes, through wastewater reuse and untapped alternative water
  sources; and (c) treat all wastewater generated within the valley (approx. 40 m3/s).64




  61
     The Valley of Mexico is an endorreic watershed, i.e., a watershed where incoming water (through rain or
  rivers) cannot exit to the ocean. Therefore, the only pathways for water to exit the watershed are through
  evaporation or infiltration. Examples of other endorreic watersheds are the Caspian Sea and the Dead Sea.
  62
     In the year 1910, the City of Mexico was, on average, 1.9 meters above Lake Texcoco. Currently, the
  City is 10 meters below Lake Texcoco (i.e. the City of Mexico has sunk almost 12 meters in 100 years).
  63
     Sinking of the Gran Canal de Desagüe has reduced its drainage capacity from its original 80 m3/s (by
  gravity) down to 28 m3/s (with pumping stations). Similarly, the capacity of the Emisor Central, which was
  built to evacuate wastewater and rainwater, has been reduced from its original 170 m3/s to 120 m3/s. The
  overall capacity of the City of Mexico drainages is 165 m3/s, but in the rainy season, it actually needs 315
  m3/s to avoid flooding. The increase in the population of the city (from 10 million people in 1975 to 19
  million people in 2006) has also exacerbated their vulnerability. Under the current situation, a blockage of
  the Emisor Central during a rainstorm event could cause catastrophic flooding (Instituto de Ingeniería de la
  UNAM).
  64
     As of 2002, the Valley of Mexico generates 46 m3/s of wastewater. However, through different reuse
  projects which are part of the Programa de Sustentabilidad Hídrica del Valle de México, it is estimated that
  the wastewater generated in the valley by 2013 will be 40 m3/s.
                                                     97
            Figure 9-1. The current water situation in the Valley of Mexico




5.       To meet these objectives, the program has incorporated the following funding
sources: federal funds; Fideicomiso 192865; and the National Infrastructure Fund
(FONADIN). Total capital expenditures estimated for the 2008-2012 period are MX$36
billion.

6.      The Water Sustainability Program for the Valley of Mexico (Programa de
Sustentabilidad Hídrica del Valle de México) goes beyond major infrastructure works
like the Atotonilco de Tula Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) and drainage systems
like Túnel Emisor Oriente. This program establishes an overarching policy of adaptation
to climate change and reduction in water vulnerability that includes the protection of
recharge areas, rainwater collection, soil conservation, the reclamation of forest areas,
and payment for environmental services, among others. A summary of the actions and
policies incorporated in this program is presented in Figure 9-2.




65
 Fideicomiso 1928 is a Trust Fund the revenues of which are the water rights paid by Mexico State and
Mexico City to the Federation.
                                                  98
Figure 9-2. Actions and Policy in the Program of Water Sustainability in Mexico Valley




 The Atotonilco de Tula Wastewater Treatment Plant

 7.     The Atotonilco de Tula WWTP (also known as El Salto WWTP) will be located
 in the Valley of Tula, in the state of Hidalgo. Atotonilco, with a dry weather flow
 nominal capacity of 23 m3/s and a wet weather capacity of 35 m3/s is the largest of six
 WWTPs that will be constructed to treat the wastewaters generated in the Valley of
 Mexico. The location of the six WWTPs is shown in Figure 9-3.




                                          99
     Figure 9-3: Location of Valley of Mexico's Wastewater Treatment Plants




8.     Currently, the Valley of Mexico exports wastewater to the Valley of Tula (where
Atotonilco will be located) through the tunnels of Tequixquiac (in the west) and the
Emisor Central and the Salto River (in the east). After the construction of the Emisor
Oriente is concluded, wastewater carried through this main will be added to the existing
sources in the east of the Valley of Tula. The Atotonilco WWTP will treat the
wastewater carried at the east of the Valley of Tula (Emisor Central, Rio Salto, and
Emisor Oriente). Currently, wastewater carried through these conduits is used without
treatment in agricultural activities in the Valley of Tula.

9.     Treated wastewater from Atotonilco will be used to irrigate approximately 60
percent of 80,000 hectares in the Valley of Mezquital, state of Hidalgo. As shown in
Table 9-1, wastewater reused from three WWTPs, including Atotonilco, will reduce the
overexploitation of water sources by approximately 15 m3/s.




                                         100
 Table 9-1: WWTPs and Their Influence in Reducing the Overexploitation of Water
                           Sources through Reuse

                Projects                                            Flow        CapEx         OpEx
                                            Level of treatment
                                                                    m³/s        M$Mx         M$Mx/yr
               PTAR Guadalupe                         2ry                0.5         230            19
               PTAR Berriozábal                       2ry                2.0       1,059            78
                                                          ry
               PTAR Nextlalpan                        2                  9.0       3,030           256
                                                          ry
                                                      2                  1.5         697            48
Wastewater     PTARs Zumpango                    ry
Treatment                                       3 Module               (2.5)         503            67
Plants         PTAR Atotonilco de T.                  2   ry
                                                                        23.0       7,091           665
                                                          ry
               PTAR Vaso El Cristo                    2                  4.0       2,255           108
               Electricity from biogas            57 MW                  ----      1,815            82
                           Total                                       40.0      16,680          1,324
Developm't     Sustitutes water from Guadalupe Dam                       2.0         527           103
of new         Closes wells in Valley of Cuautitlán                      2.0          ----
potable
water          Allows use of Tula Aquifer                                5.0       3,311           420
sourcess       Allows use of Vaso Zumpango                               2.5         595           127
and closure
               Madín Dam Water Treatment Plant                           0.5         110            25
of over-
exploited      Cutzamala System Modernization                            3.0       3,571           291
wells            Total water not extracted from aquifer                15.0        8,114           966

               Total                                                             24,794         2,290


 10.     Sludge generated from primary and secondary treatment in Atotonilco will be
 digested anaerobically, generating sludge (biosolids) that could be used as fertilizer in
 agriculture, and biogas that will be used to generate electricity for the plant.66 The
 generation of electricity through the use of biogas not only reduces dependency of
 external sources of electricity, and their related costs, but also reduces the carbon
 footprint of the facility; that is, it minimizes the emission of greenhouse gases to the
 atmosphere, thereby contributing to mitigating climate change. The potential for
 certifying emission reductions (i.e., generating CERs) within a Clean Development
 Mechanism scheme has been considered as part of this project.

 11.    In addition to considering climate change mitigation technologies, Atotonilco de
 Tula, as well as the other WWTPs that are part of the Programa de Sustentabilidad
 Hídrica del Valle de México, will contribute to adaptation to climate change in Mexico's
 water sector by reducing the overexploitation of aquifers and providing alternative
 sources of water for irrigation, thereby reducing the vulnerability of the sector.




 66
   Biogas generated in anaerobic digestion of sludge is a combination of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane
 (CH4) gas. Methane has heat potential and can be used in combustion engines to generate electricity to
 offset part of the demand from wastewater treatment processes.
                                                  101
12.     In January 2010, the project was awarded to a consortia made up of national and
international firms. The plant is expected to start operation in 2013. Once Atotonilco de
Tula WWTP is in full operation, it will increase national wastewater treatment coverage
by 14 percent, thereby reaching 54 percent Mexico-wide treatment.

13.     In August 2008, construction of Túnel Emisor Oriente kicked-off. It is expected
that the works will be operational at the end of 2012. This project will double the
capacity to evacuate rainwater from the Metropolitan Area of the Valley of Mexico,
benefitting 20 million people who currently suffer from flooding during the rainy season,
thereby contributing to reducing the impacts of extreme events and vulnerability to
climate change.




                                          102
                             ANNEX 10: WATER BANKS

Introduction

1.     Water banks are a management mechanism created to facilitate the transfer of
water use entitlements from one location or use to another. They promote a more efficient
use and allocation of water, recognize the economic value of the resource, and regulate
the market, particularly on the transfer of water rights.

2.       The water banks serve an important role by determining which water rights can be
exchanged or transferred and the amount of water corresponding to a given water right
entitlement. Banks also establish the process and terms of these agreements/transfers.
Some banks have assumed a broader role of brokers, centers for the exchange of
information or promoters of markets. As brokers, banks connect buyers and sellers to
facilitate a transaction; as centers for the exchange of information, they serve as suppliers
of information and provide the regulatory requirements for the exchange; as promoters of
markets, they provide liquidity by purchasing or selling water at predetermined prices.
Thus, banks ensure that transactions are performed even when buyers and sellers are
absent. In some other instances, banks do not play an active role in the exchange of rights
but rather provide a series of administrative functions that facilitate the transfer and sale.
These functions include: a) register of rights or water titles; b) regulate or establish
market prices; c) determine which rights can be transferred/exchanged; d) maintain data
and records on water availability; e) identify the quantity and location of water that can
be transferred; f) specify the buyers and sellers; g) formulate terms of reference for the
contracts; h) supply information to regulatory agency; and i) resolve disputes resolution.

3.      The establishment of water banks is mostly a function of a specific water source
or type of water right/title. In general, there are three major categories of banks (although
given the array of legal and institutional frameworks, some banks may fall into more than
one category). These three main categories are: institutional banks, banks established in
storage areas, and groundwater banks.

       a)   Institutional banks, which provide a legal mechanism for the exchange of
            water rights and enable the transfer of legal documents supporting the
            exchange, are usually established where water storage capacity is low or the
            geographical areas are large. These banks usually function in circumstances
            where the right is contingent upon hydrological variations.

       b)   Banks established in storage areas are those established near one or multiple
            water storage areas/facilities where the storage quotas can be accumulated
            and exchanged. By definition, the exchange is a function of the volume of
            water stored, providing more certainty than the market defined in
            institutional banks. Transactions are primarily based on a percentage or
            volume of the available water. In most cases, exchanges of rights are short
            term (usually a year).

       c)   Groundwater banks provide a mechanism for the exchange and transfer of
            water rights abstraction within a confined aquifer. Several of these facilities

                                            103
               have been developed to promote the conjunctive use of water. Under
               conjunctive use programs any surplus supply of freshwater is recharged to
               the aquifer to be used during periods of low availability of freshwater. These
               banks also serve as mitigation tools in areas where the abstraction of water
               has been larger than what is required to maintain a minimum flow of
               freshwater.

4.      The structure of the banks defines the rules and mechanisms by which the
participants in the market interact and commit to the transaction. Bank structure also
helps determine prices and disseminate information. Banks play a vital role in ensuring
the proper functioning of the market. As such, they must ensure that transfers are done
efficiently and in a timely manner to reduce the risk, uncertainty and transaction costs of
the exchange. It is imperative that these banks operate within the water resources
management planning framework (that is, that they not operate in isolation). The legal
and environmental considerations and the effects on third parties are also fundamental
elements of the development of water banks.

5.         Water banks provide a series of benefits as listed below.

       i.     Water banks foster the sustainable management and efficient administration of
              water resources by providing economic incentives to water users. Water banks
              constitute a source of information by providing users with data on water use
              and availability in a given basin. As part of specific policy changes, water
              banks provide new incentives and water market structures especially in basins
              and regions where water has become scarce.
      ii.     Water banks can benefit small and informal water users by explicitly
              transferring rights to them so that they can use water more efficiently. The
              emphasis on a comprehensive and sustainable use of water could increase
              water availability in basins by limiting overexploitation and the oversupply of
              water.
     iii.      Because of the nature of the incentive structure for water access and use
              provided by water banks, the monopolistic behavior and abuses that
              characterize many water transactions are limited. Transferring water rights
              will reduce monopolistic behavior in water access and use, making it possible
              for small producers to gain access to water through water transfers when
              facing shortages and through aquifer recharge when facing surpluses.
     iv.      Banks minimize the probability of inadequate use and waste of water. The
              transfer of rights from low value to high value uses ensures that water is used
              where it is more productive and where its economic value is higher.
      v.      Water banks facilitate water purchases to store water resources for periods of
              shortage. Banks can purchase rights from water users, thus removing water
              from the market during periods of high availability or in areas where it is not
              being used for activities that have the highest economic value. This water can
              then be sold in periods of scarcity; hence, banks can control the availability of
              water.
     vi.      Water banks provide transparency. The explicit recognition of rights and the
              integration of transparent information for water use promote equity principles
              in all populations groups and sectors that collectively use the resource.

                                              104
6.      The legal framework of several countries (such as Australia, Spain, the United
States, Mexico and Chile) includes the establishment of water banks as a management
instrument to enable the transfer of water rights and allocate water to its highest
economic value. There are significant differences in the way that water banks operate in
relation to the market structure, the degree of participation, tariffs and price controls, the
regulatory framework, environmental objectives, and other variables, but they all share
the main objective of facilitating the transfer of water from low to high value uses
through transactions between buyers and sellers.

Water Banks in Mexico

7.      Water banks in Mexico were conceptualized as management instruments that
regulate the transfer of rights in geographic regions that face issues of water availability.
These instruments support the regulation of informal practices and the creation of a
regulated market of water rights. They also promote the efficient allocation and
reallocation of water to the most productive uses, supporting the sustainable and
integrated management of water resources. They are established within a basin agency;
hence, they are a function of the geographical area that defines a particular basin.

8.      The National Water Law of 2004 (Article 37 bis) establishes the creation of water
banks in Mexico. The normative framework that followed enactment of the law defines
the main objectives of these banks: a) perform regulated transfers of rights between users;
b) regulate water rights markets to support the efficient use of water resources; c) reverse
the overexploitation of water; d) prevent the monopolization of the resource and
excessive economic rents; and e) promote the conservation of rivers, lakes, wetlands,
basins, aquifers and coastal areas of the country.

9.      The main functions of water banks in Mexico are: a) provide and maintain of
information on supply and demand of water rights, b) inform users of the applicable
norms and regulations, c) provide advice and guidance to users, d) design and apply
measures to avoid the monopolization of water rights, and e) ensure and verify that rights
to be transferred are valid legal instruments.

10.   As of today, two water banks have been formally established. The first one, in
Cuencas Centrales del Norte, was established in December 2008, and the second one, in
Lerma Santiago Pacifico, was established on June 24, 2009.




                                            105
      ANNEX 11: TAP BETWEEN CONAGUA AND THE BANK (DRAFT)
                        Technical Assistance Program
                                  Between
           The National Water Commission of Mexico (CONAGUA)
                                     And
         The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
                   International Development Association
                                     For
   World Bank Support for Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in the
                              Water Sector

Introduction

1.      Mexico's PNH defines the water policy framework for the country. The Plan sets
objectives, strategies and goals to achieve sustainable use of water, recognizing its
strategic value and fostering environmental protection. Among its guiding objectives, the
PNH aims at: improving water productivity in the agricultural sector, increasing access to
water supply and sanitation, integrating water resources management in basins and
aquifers, mitigating hydrometeorological and meteorological risks, improving wastewater
treatment, providing incentives for wastewater reuse, assessing the effects of climate
change on the hydrological cycle, and consolidating the participation of users and civil
society in water management.

2.      Mexico's Special Program for Climate Change identifies low water availability
and poor water quality as two of the main problems hampering sustained growth and
development. Water is a key pillar in Mexico's PECC, and it is considered one of the
main issues that must be addressed under almost every climate scenario modeled. The
sector is committed to the GOM's mitigation goals through reduced energy consumption
resulting from savings and more efficient use (that is, through the regulation of water-
saving technologies and appliances), conservation of riparian corridors (through
ecological flows regulation), and watershed management (through national and local
payment for environmental services). Most important, the PECC advances adaptation
measures in water aimed at managing both supply and demand, improving infrastructure,
and strengthening integrated water resources management in the face of climate change.

3.     The government of Mexico believes that adaptation and mitigation measures to
reduce vulnerability to climate change are a priority. Mexico's efforts in climate change
not only position the country as a global leader, but also ensure that the country is
equipped with the necessary policies, regulations, institutions, and mechanisms to
mitigated and adapt to the impacts of climate change in its main economic sectors. The
best adaptation measures in the water sector are those that promote integrated water
resources management. Actions leading to the efficient use of water resources (for
example, reduction of water losses, reuse of treated effluent, optimization of irrigation
systems, protection of aquifers, and so forth) will contribute to reducing vulnerability and
adapting to climate change in the water sector in Mexico.

4.    CONAGUA is responsible for the implementation of the water sector policy
framework described in the PNH. This is done through several federal programs in the
                                       106
sector that are geared toward satisfying the demand for water for irrigation and drinking,
as well as improving wastewater collection and treatment. These programs provide the
financial incentives towards better use of the resource through improved efficiency in
agricultural irrigation, increased access to water services, the improved operation of
water utilities, enhanced technical and commercial efficiencies, and the improved
environmental quality of the nation's rivers.

5.      The commitment of the World Bank on issues related to climate change in
Mexico and its support of the government's efforts in this area date back to the mid-
1990s. At present, this commitment comprises 35 initiatives (active or in the pipeline)
financed by IBRD loans, GEF grants, carbon finance emission reductions purchase
agreements, and other financial instruments. The Programmatic Environmental Structural
Adjustment Loans (SALs) approved in 2002 and 2005 were a landmark in mainstreaming
the environmental sustainability principle in sectoral policies, namely tourism, energy,
forestry, and water, as prioritized by the government. These were followed by the
Environmental Sustainability Development Policy Loan (ENVDPL) and its Supplemental
Financing, building on Mexico's PND and expanding the objectives of the previous
Environmental SALs.

6.     The Bank has a long history of dialogue with and assistance to Mexico in water
resources management, irrigation and drainage, and water supply and sanitation.
Beginning in 1972, the Bank and United Nations Development Programme provided
support for the development of Mexico's first comprehensive national water plan
(published in 1975). Drafting of the modern 1992 water law was supported by the Bank
and the Food and Agriculture Organization. The development of the 2004 Water Law,
which builds on the previous legislation, was supported by ENVDPL II.

7.       The Bank-financed Irrigation and Drainage Sector Loan and the (now closed) On-
Farm Irrigation Improvement Project assisted Mexico in transferring irrigation systems to
water user organizations. This resulted in operation and maintenance improvements and
the increased collection of water tariffs from water users. In addition, the Integrated
Irrigation Modernization Project (now closed) sought to improve the efficiency of
irrigation systems and increase the value of production per unit of water consumed. The
Mexico Decentralized Infrastructure Reform and Development Loan Project is a
pioneering project that used country systems safeguards and includes output-based
disbursements. One of the project's components deals with improving efficiency,
wastewater treatment, and water resource management the state of Guanajuato.

8.      The Modernization of the Water and Sanitation Sector Technical Assistance
Project supports the GOM's efforts to develop the tools and instruments to support local
authorities in improving the financial sustainability and efficiency of water supply and
sanitation service provision. This project has enabled CONAGUA to develop new
regulations that provide incentives for efficiency improvements, including transferring
financial resources based on efficiency and service improvements. The project also
supports the improvement of commercial and operational efficiency in a group of
selected utilities.



                                          107
9.     Most recently, the government of Mexico has requested a new Development
Policy Loan to support government priorities in its climate change adaptation and water
sector agenda. The request underlines the GOM's interest in a continued, strong
engagement with the Bank under the business model deemed most appropriate for a
leading emerging market economy like Mexico's, and as defined in the Country
Partnership Strategy 2008­2013.

10.    To accompany this DPL and other ongoing projects, CONAGUA and the Bank
agreed to sign a Technical Assistance Program that would bolster their policy dialogue
and further strengthen Mexico's capacity to mainstream adaptation to climate change into
the water sector.

11.     This Technical Assistance Program provides for priority activities and services
(described below) to be executed and/or financed by the World Bank over the period of
2010-2012. These activities are grouped into five main strategic areas: a) support
CONAGUA's efforts towards the creation of on a long-term planning vision for the
sector (Vision 2030), b) strengthening of the financial system in the water sector, c) water
resources management and adaptation to climate change at the Basin level, d) support the
National Program for the Modernization of the Meteorological Service, and e)
mainstreaming adaptation to Climate Change in the water sector.

       a. Support CONAGUA's Efforts Towards the Creation of a Long-Term
          Planning Vision for the Sector ­ Vision 2030: The GOM is embarking in a
          new long-term vision for the future of water resources in Mexico, surpassing
          the confines of government administrations. The Vision has four main
          objectives: clean rivers, balanced river basins, universal coverage, and
          ensuring that populated areas are safe from flooding events. Type of Support:
          The Bank team will provide technical advice throughout the process of
          formulation Vision 2030 for CONAGUA. It will also provide additional
          support from international consultants on an as-needed basis. Output: Written
          technical inputs throughout the process. Execution: World Bank.

       b. Strengthening of the Financial System in the Water Sector. Financial
          resources are a crucial element to ensure the effective implementation of
          Vision 2030. The 2004 Water Law states that the creation of a financial
          system for the water sector is a critical element to support the integrated and
          sustainable management of the nation's water resources. This system has to
          ensure that financial sources are diversified. It must also make sure that
          mechanisms are implemented that promote the decentralization of financial
          administration functions and strengthen the financial instruments of the
          different regions. This exercise will include analytical work as inputs to the
          design and implementation of the National Financial System. The analytical
          work will: a) determine the financial needs of the sector; b) identify current
          levels of revenues and all sources of funding being channeled to the sector
          (ODA, federal, state and local transfers, private sector, other financing
          instruments); c) identify potential sources of revenue generation for the sector;
          d) measure the efficiencies in the use of financial instruments; e) monitor and
          evaluate the impact of financing, and f) propose measures to improve the

                                           108
   efficiency of financial resources and increase the funding base. Type of
   support: Technical assistance with Bank staff, and international and local
   consultants. Output: technical report. Execution: World Bank with the
   participation of CONAGUA and the Ministry of Finance.

c. Water Resources Management and Adaptation to Climate Change at the
   Basin Level. The government of Mexico is devoting substantial efforts to
   understanding the impacts of climate change at the national level. To this end,
   the National Institute of Ecology, SEMARNAT, and the Center for
   Atmospheric Sciences of the Autonomous University of Mexico have
   conducted several modeling exercises. At the same time, adaptation plans are
   also being formulated at the state level. However, no efforts have been
   undertaken to understand the potential impacts of climate change at the level
   of the basin. Thus, the GOM has expressed interest in receiving support from
   the Bank in the Rio Yaki (state of Sonora) and eventually other basins in the
   future. This exercise will develop: a) a basin-level screening tool that will
   determine the level of confidence of existing (hydrological and
   meteorological; spatial and confidence levels) data and will provide a strategic
   assessment of the basins; b) an investment planning exercise that will
   prioritize, based on financial constraints and a cost effective framework,
   adaptation measures required; and c) once the package of investments has
   been prioritized, the proposed measures will be analyzed to identify those that
   maximize net benefits. Type of support: Technical assistance with Bank
   staff, and international and local consultants. Output: Technical reports. This
   support will also include the organization and implementation of a series of
   workshops as part of the exercise. Execution: World Bank. Participation of
   SEMARNAT, INE, UNAM, and CONAGUA.

d. Support the National Program for the Modernization of the
   Meteorological Service. Climate and meteorological events have a profound
   incidence on the population and all economic sectors. Meteorological events
   affect human settlements; interrupt daily activities, and have an impact on
   health, natural resources and the national economy. In the water sector,
   hydrometeorological information provides the technical basis under which
   sound analysis is undertaken to properly manage water resources. This
   information provides the necessary data to assess the water balance of a basin
   and to assess extreme events such as floods and droughts. As such, proper
   hydrometeorological systems, data collection and analysis are a necessary
   condition to formulate sound policies on integrated water resources
   management. Climate change provides an additional challenge to
   meteorological data; namely, the incorporation and analysis of climate
   information. The GOM recently announced the National Program for the
   Modernization of Meteorological Services. This program, which will be
   implemented in the next ten years, provides a strategic framework with a
   series of activities that require support. In particular, the Bank could provide
   its support in the following areas: a) develop capacity building programs for
   the analysis and forecasting of climate models and b) estimate the value of the
   climate information generated by the service in different economic sectors, c)

                                   109
   support the creation of a National Climate Center within SMN, d) provide
   technical assistance to the preparation of a plan for implementing the
   modernization of infrastructure of SMN, e) provide technical assistance for
   the reparation of plan for capacity building and human resources development
   and training fro SMN and f) technical support to the normalization of
   meteorological equipment and procedures y Mexico. Type of support:
   Technical assistance with Bank staff, and international and local consultants.
   This support will include the organization and implementation of technical
   workshops for capacity building. Execution: World Bank. Participation of
   SEMARNAT, WMO, CONAGUA.

e. Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector.
   Mexico has emerged as a global leader in the climate change arena and is
   moving quickly to address mitigation and adaptation policy frameworks to
   tackle the most pressing economic issues. Its growing role will be in the
   spotlight during the Conference of the Parties 16 (COP 16), to be held in
   Mexico at the end of 2010. Water resource issues have not been adequately
   addressed in climate change analyses and the climate change debate. At the
   same time, climate change problems have not been adequately dealt with in
   water resources analyses, management and policy formulation. The COP 16
   event is CONAGUA's opportunity to present its contributions to climate
   change risilience and take on a national and global leadership role. The
   objective of this proposal is to support CONAGUA in its efforts to: a) raise
   the water issue in the national and global climate change agenda and b)
   internalize the climate change topic at the technical and management levels of
   the organization. The support activities are divided into two different
   components: Component 1: Internal Activities. The main goal of this
   component is to start activities that explicitly highlight and/or incorporate the
   climate change topic into CONAGUA programs and projects, and make the
   staff aware of the issue and provide them with capacity building support. For
   that purpose, assistance will be given to formulate guidelines for the
   integration of climate change actions into CONAGUA's programs and, to
   prepare workshops as well as informational materials. Component 2:
   Towards the COP 16. The goal of this component is to provide support to
   CONAGUA in the positioning of the water issue and the institution's
   relevance in COP 16. The following actions/activities are under consideration:
   a) formulate a document that summarizes the efforts of the institution in
   climate change, compiling and analyzing the actions of the existing programs
   of mitigation and adaptation. This document will integrate actions in the areas
   of water and climate change with their crosscutting topics and the different
   actors (GOM, CONAGUA, and SEMARNAT). These actions foster
   discussions with other local and international actors (governments, NGOs,
   professional organizations, IFIs, CODIA, etc). It will also form the basis for
   presenting the long-term vision of the institution on climate change and water,
   b) define the strategy of CONAGUA for its participation and positioning in
   the COP 16 and in future related meetings (Water Week in Stockholm, Water
   Forum, etc) through technical support in the preparation of seminars and
   presentations (for example Water Day, etc.), and c) prepare a position paper

                                   110
            on the relevance of water in the global adaptation to climate change agenda.
            Type of support: Type of support: Technical assistance with Bank staff, and
            international and local consultants. This support will include the organization
            and implementation of technical workshops. Execution: World Bank.
            Participation of SEMARNAT, WMO, CONAGUA, UN HABITAT, SIWI,
            and others to be defined in the process.

Next Steps: Presentation of the draft proposal to CONAGUA, subsequent review and
discussion.




                                           111
                            ANNEX 12: REFERENCES

Agrawal, A. 2008. "The Role of Local Institutions in Adaptation to Climate Change."
Paper prepared for the World Bank Workshop on Social Dimensions of Climate Change.
Social Development Department. The World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Agrawal, A., and N. Perrin. 2008. "Climate Adaptation, Local Institutions and Rural
Livelihoods." IFRI Working Paper # W08I-6. International Forestry Resources and
Institutions Program. School of Natural Resources and Environment. University of
Michigan. Ann Arbor.

Ávila-García, P. 2009. "Towards a new environmental ethics and the solution of water
conflicts: The experience of the Latin American Water Tribunal." Presentation at the
Seventh International Science Conference on the Human Dimensions of Global
Environmental Change. Session on Governance and the Global Water System. April 26-
30. Bonn.

Baisa, B., L.W. Davis, S. Salant, and W. Willcox. 2010. "The welfare costs of unreliable
water service." Journal of Development Economics. Vol. 92. pp. 1-10.

Becerra-Paez, M., J. Saínz-Santamaría, and C. Muñoz-Piña. 2006. "Los conflictos por
agua en México. Diagnóstico y análisis." Gestión y Política Pública. Vol. XV. No. 1.
First Quarter. Mexico City.

Bravo-Pérez, M., J. C. Castro-Ramírez, and M. A. Guitiérrez-Andrade. 2005. "El Banco
de Agua: una Propuesta para Salvar el Lago de Chapala". Gestión y Política Pública,
Vol. XIV No. 2 Third Quarter, Mexico City.

Buenfil, J. (ed.). 2009. Adaptación a los impactos del cambio climático en los humedales
costeros del Golfo de México. Volumes I and II. Instituto Nacional de Ecología. Mexico
City. www.ine.gob.mx.

Carabias, J., and R. Landa. 2005. Agua, medio ambiente y sociedad: Hacia la gestión
integral de los recursos hídricos en México. UNAM/Colegio de México. Mexico City.

Collado, J. 2009. Evaluación del Diseño de Programa S218 (Fondos Concursables para
el Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales. National Water Commission (CONAGUA). Mexico
City.

De la Torre, A., P. Fajnzylber, and J. Nash. 2008. Low Carbon High Growth: Latin
American Response to Climate Change. An Overview. Latin America and Caribbean
Studies. World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Eakin H. 2000. "Smallholder maize production and climate risk: a case study from
Mexico." Climate Change. Volume 45, No. 1, pp. 19­36.

European Environmental Agency. 2007. "Climate Change and Water Adaptation Issues."
Technical Report No. 2/2007. Copenhagen.


                                         112
Galindo, L. (coordinator). 2009. The Economics of Climate Change: Synopsis. Ministry
of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). Mexico City.

Gallegos-Acosta, M. 2009. "Logros y Metas en la Tecnificación del Riego en México.
Asociación Nacional de Usuarios de Riego." Power-Point Presentation. National
Association of Irrigation Users (Asociación Nacional de Usuarios de Riego, ANUR).
México.

García, V., and M. Parra. 2002. "DesInventar y los registros sobre escasez de agua en
México. 1970-2000." In Nueva época. Year 7, September-December. CIESA. Mexico
City.

Gay, C., F. Estrada, C. Conde, H. Eakin, and L. Villers. 2006. "Potential impacts of
climate change on agriculture: A case of study of coffee production in Veracruz,
Mexico." Climate Change. Volume 79, Nos. 3-4, December, pp. 259-288.

González-Moreno, P. 2008. "Mercados de bancos de agua: su adopción en México y
restricciones institucionales para su aplicación". Master's thesis. FLACSO. Mexico City.

Guevara-Sangines, A. 2006. "Water Subsidies and Aquifer Depletion in Mexico's Arid
Regions." Occasional Paper No. 23. Human Development Report. United Nations. New
York.

Guillén Burguete, S.T. 2005. "Evaluación del programa de agua potable, alcantarillado y
saneamiento en zonas urbanas (APAZU) para el ejercicio 2005." Ingeniería ambiental.
Pr. 7.2.1. National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). Mexico City.

Global Water Partnership (GWP). 2007. "Better water resources management ­ Greater
resilience today, more effective adaptation tomorrow". GWP: Sweden.

Inter-Ministerial Commission on Climate Change (CICC). 2007. Estrategia Nacional de
Cambio Climático. Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT).
Mexico City. http://www.semarnat.gob.mx/Documents/Estrat_nal_Sintesis.pdf

Inter-Ministerial Commission on Climate Change (CICC). 2009. Programa Especial de
Cambio Climático 2009­2012. Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT). Mexico City.

International Monetary Fund. 2010. World Economic Outlook Update January 2010.
Washington, D.C.

Kloster, K. and F. De Abla. 2007. "El Agua en la Ciudad de México y la Fragmentación
Política." Perfiles Latinoamericanos. No. 29. FLACSO. Mexico City.

Margulis, S. 2010. "The Economics of Adaptation to Climate Change Study: The Global
Report." The World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Martinez, J. 2008. "Climate Change, Sustainable Growth and Poverty." Power-Point
Presentation. The World Bank. April 15.

                                         113
McCarthy, J., O. Ganziani, N. Leary, D. Dokken, and K. White. 2001. Climate Change
2001: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the
Third Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Geneva.

McGovern, E., Varady, R. and Browning-Aiken, A. 2006. Water Policy Research on the
Upper San Pedro Basin: An Annotated Bibliography of Contributions by the Udall
Center for Studies in Public Policy 1997-2006. University of Arizona. Tucson.

Miller K 2006. Land under siege. Recent Variations in Sea Level through the Americas.
Faculty of Engineering, University of West Indies, St. Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago.

Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT), 2007. Third
Communication to the UNFCCC. INE-SEMARNAT. Mexico City.

Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). 2008. Estrategia
Nacional para la Participación Ciudadana en el Sector Medioambiental (ENAPCi).
September. Mexico City.

Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). 2009a. Compendio
de Estadísticas Ambientales, "Módulo de Consulta Temática de la Base de Datos
Estadísticos del Sistema Nacional de Información Ambiental y de Recursos Naturales
(BADESNIARN)." Mexico City .
http://app1.semarnat.gob.mx/dgeia/compendio_2009/00_intros/presentacion.html

Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) and National
Ecology Institute (INE). 2010. Cuarta Comunicación Nacional ante la Convención
Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio Climático. Mexico City.

Morales C., 2008. Desertification, degradation and migration in Latin America and the
Caribbean. Position paper presented at IOM UN research workshop on "Migration and
the Environment: Developing a global research agenda", April. Munich.

National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy (CONEVAL). 2008.
"Informe de Evaluación Específica del Desempeño: APAZU." Ministry of the
Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). Mexico City.

National Ecology Institute (INE). 2001. México Segunda Comunicación Nacional ante la
Convención Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio Climático. Ministry of the
Environment       and    Natural     Resources    (SEMARNAT).       Mexico     City.
http://tinyurl.com/sncmex.

National Ecology Institute (INE). 2006. "Análisis de escenarios de cambio climático y
vulnerabilidad de sectores clave en México y propuestas de adaptación." CCAUNAM.
Mexico City.

National Ecology Institute (INE). 2006. México tercera comunicación nacional ante la
Convención Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio Climático. Ministry of the
Environment       and    Natural    Resources     (SEMARNAT).       Mexico     City.
http://tinyurl.com/tncmex.

                                        114
National Water Commission (CONAGUA). 2000. "Diagnóstico Preliminar sobre
Superficies Regables y Volúmenes Requeridos en las Unidades de Riego Organizadas y
Sin Organizar y Tecnificación de las Unidades de Riego en México." Mexico City.

National Water Commission (CONAGUA). 2002. Manual de Procedimientos en Materia
de Impacto Ambiental. Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT). Mexico City.

National Water Commission (CONAGUA). 2008a. Statistics on Water in Mexico: 2008
Edition (As revised in August 2009). Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT). Mexico City.

National Water Commission (CONAGUA). 2008b. Documento de Posicionamiento
Institucional. Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento en Zonas
Urbanas. Mexico City.

National Water Commission (CONAGUA ). 2009. Evaluación de Diseño del Programa
S217 Modernización y Tecnificación de Unidades de Riego. Ministry of the Environment
and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). Mexico City.

Office of the President, Mexico (Presidencia de la República). 2007. "Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo 2007­2012." México City.

Office of the President, Mexico (Presidencia de la República). 2008. "Programa Nacional
de Infraestructura 2007­2012." Mexico City.

Olson, D., and G. Saltiel. 2007. "Water Resources ­ Averting a Water Crisis in Mexico."
Chapter 9 in Mexico 2006-2012. Creating the Foundations for Equitable Growth. The
World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD). 2006. "Water
Management: Policy Brief for the Mexican Project." Environment Directorate. Paris.

President of the United Mexican States, 2009. Third Government Progress Report.
Federal Government of Mexico. September. Mexico City.

Rodríguez-Castillo, R. and Rodríguez-Velazquez, I. 2006. "Consecuencias sociales de un
desastre inducido, subsidencia". Boletín de la Sociedad Geológica Mexicana. Número
Especial de Geología Urbana. Volume LVIII. No. 2 pp. 265-269. UNAM. Mexico City.

Saldaña-Zorrila, S. 2007. "Socioeconomic Vulnerabilities to Natural Disasters in Mexico:
Rural Poor, Trade, and Public Responses." Serie Estudios y Perspectivas No. 92. Disaster
Evaluation Unit, Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC),
Office in Mexico. Mexico City.

Sandoval-Minero, R. 2009. "La estructura de los organismos operadores, los factores de
su productividad y sus efectos en la competitividad de las ciudades." Power-Point
Presentation. First International Forum Water Sector and International Competitiveness.
National Water Technology Institute of Mexico (IMTA)-USAID. IFWSNC-SIMAPAG.
Mexico City.
                                         115
Stern, N. 2006. The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review. Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press.

United Nations Development Program (UNDP). 2005. "Adaptation Policy Framework to
Climate Change." New York.

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). 2009.
World Water Development Report 3: Water in a Changing World. Paris.

Verner, D. 2005. "Poverty in Rural and Semi-Urban Mexico During 1992-2002." Policy
Research Working Paper 3576. The World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Verner, D. 2010. "Climate Change with a Human Face in Mexico." Mimeo. The World
Bank. Washington, D.C.

Wilder, M. and P. Romero. 2006. "Paradoxes of Decentralization: Water Reform and
Social Implications in Mexico". World Development. Vol. 34, No. 11.

World Bank. 2005. Mexico: Infrastructure Public Expenditure Review (IPER).
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.

World Bank. 2006. Mexico: Water Public Expenditure Review (WaPER). Washington,
D.C.: World Bank.

World Bank. 2008. "Country Partnership Strategy for the United Mexican States for the
Period FY2008­2013." Washington, D.C.

World Bank. 2009a. "Social Implications of Climate Change in Latin America and the
Caribbean". Washington, D.C.: World Bank

World Bank. 2009b. "Poverty and Social Impact Analysis." Washington, D.C.

World Bank. 2010a. World Development Report 2010: Development and Climate
Change. Washington, D.C.

World Bank. 2010b. The World Bank Water Resources Sector Strategy ­ Mid Cycle
Implementation Progress Report. Washington, D.C.

World Bank. 2010c. "Water and Climate Change: Understanding the Risks and Making
Climate-Smart Investment Decisions. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.

World Water Council (WWC). 2006. Final Report of the 4th World Water Forum.
Mexico: National Water Commission of Mexico.

Zapata, R. 2007. "Características e Impacto Socioeconómico de los Huracanes "Stan" y
"Wilma" en la República Mexicana en el 2005." National Center for Disaster Prevention
(CENAPRED, Ministry of the Interior of Mexico) and Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean (ECLAC). Santiago de Chile.



                                        116
Zepeda Ramos, O. and Sánchez Pérez, T. 2001. "Diagnóstico de peligros e identificación
de riesgos de desastres en Mexico: Atlas Nacional de Riesgos de la República
Mexicana." National Center for Disaster Prevention (CENAPRED). Ministry of the
Interior of Mexico. Mexico City.




                                        117
                                                    ANNEX 13: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE

Mexico at a glance                                                                                                                                                    /1
                                                                                                                                                                  4/21 0

                                                                                          Latin       Upper
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                                A merica       middle
                                                                        M exico        & Carib.     inco me        Age distribution, 2008
(2009)
                                                                                                                                       Male                        Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                        107.4            565        948         75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                          1,964            20,421     47,176
                                                                                                                   60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                     1.0             1.1       0.8
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                               77               79         75        45-49

                                                                                                                   30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                       962.7            3,833      7,472
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                     8,960            6,780      7,878        15-19
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                              14,270            10,309     12,297
                                                                                                                     0-4
GDP gro wth (%)                                                             -6.5             4.4        4.7                 6           4percent of total population 4
                                                                                                                                              2       0      2               6
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                  -7.5             3.2        3.8

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 ­ 2 0 0 9 )

                                  .25
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , %)                          <2               8           ..
                                                                                                                   Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                        5              17           ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                             75              73          71        60
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                    29              22          21
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                  3               5           ..       50

                                                                                                                   40
                                   5
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                              94              92          95
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)
                                     5                                       91              90          93        30

Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                          1
                                                                             14              1
                                                                                             19         121        20
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                         1
                                                                             11               1
                                                                                             15         108
                                                                                                                   10

A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                   95              91          94         0
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)             81              78          82
                                                                                                                                   1990           1995     2000     2007

                                                                                                                           Mexico            Latin America & the Caribbean


N e t A id F lo ws                                          19 8 0       19 9 0           2000       2009      a



(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                      55           156              -56        121        Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2007):
 United States                                                      9        23              24          84         8
                                                                                                                    6
 Germany                                                           15         9              15          28
                                                                                                                    4
 France                                                            15        51              -11         16
                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                    0
A id (% o f GNI)                                               0.0           0.1             0.0        0.0         -2
A id per capita (US$ )                                           1            2               -1          1         -4
                                                                                                                    -6
                                                                                                                    -8
Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds
                                                                                                                   -10

                                                                                                                                             95                      05
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                           26.3          26.7              9.5        5.3
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                     33.4          28.1              12.1       4.3
                                                                                                                                       GDP                 GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )               0.0           2.8              9.5       13.5
Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                            194           106              100       1 03
                                                                                                                   19 8 0 ­ 9 0 19 9 0 ­ 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 ­ 0 9
                                                                                                                          (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                           67.6         83.2           98.0        107.4                     2.1                  1.6             1.0
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                        194,851      262,710        581,428      874,902                     1.1                  3.1             2.2
                                                                           (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                  9.0           7.8              4.2        4.3                     0.8                  1.5             2.0
Industry                                                     33.6          28.4             28.0       34.8                      1.1                 3.8             1.3
  M anufacturing                                             22.3          20.8             20.3       17.2                     1.5                  4.3              1.1
Services                                                     57.4          63.7             67.8       62.8                     1.4                  2.9             2.6

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                  65.1          69.6             67.0       67.4                  1.4                     2.3             3.2
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure               10.0           8.4               1
                                                                                             1 .1       1 .6
                                                                                                         1                   2.4                     1.8             0.8
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                   27.2          23.1             23.9       22.4                 -3.3                     4.7             0.4

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                            10.7          18.6             30.9       27.8                     7.0                 14.6             4.3
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                            13.0          19.7             32.9       29.3                     1.0                 12.3             4.7
Gro ss savings                                               22.0          20.3             20.5       23.1




                                                                                    118
                                                                                                                                                                              Mexico

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                       2000           2009
                                                                                                   Governance indicators, 2000 and 2008
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                               166,121       229,707
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                               174,458        234,385              Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                                -10,661        -12,703
                                                                                                            Political stability
Current acco unt balance                                        -18,743         -5,238
 as a % o f GDP                                                     -3.2           -0.6                   Regulatory quality

                                                                                                                  Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                         7,525        26,304
                                                                                                        Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                        35,577         99,870
                                                                                                                                  0        25           50           75        100

                                                                                                            2008                      Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                                 higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                            2000

(% o f GDP )
Current revenue (including grants)                                      21.4      23.8            Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

 Tax revenue                                                            10.6       9.5
Current expenditure                                                     21.4      20.6
                                                                                                T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                        2000         2008
Overall surplus/deficit                                                 -3.4       -3.2
                                                                                                P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                        32.8       50.0
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                                   Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                              40        28                                00
                                                                                                 subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                          27             90
 Co rpo rate                                                             35        28           High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                                 (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                      22.4        17.1
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                                E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                          150,901        215,375          A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                 55         55
To tal debt service                                             58,509          38,643          Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                      33.7       33.0
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                            ­              ­          Natio nally pro tected areas (% o f land area)                         ..       5.3

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                            26.0          24.6          Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                   4,090         3,885
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                                30.4          14.2          Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                      78.2               ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                        18,098           1 7
                                                                                 1 ,41          CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                       3.9        4.1
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                                  447          4,1 69
                                                                                                GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                                 (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                           7.9        7.7
  Composition of total external debt, 2009
                                                                                                Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                     1,533      1,702
                        Short-term,          IDA, 00   Other multi-
                                              IMF,    10,142
                                                IBRD, lateral, 7,412
                         24,427
                                                     Bilateral, 1,689
                                                                                                Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                              2000         2009

                                                                                                (US$ millio ns)

                                                                                                IB RD
                                                                                                 To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                            1
                                                                                                                                                                  1 ,444        0,1
                                                                                                                                                                               1 42
                                                                                                 Disbursements                                                     1,748       4,882
                                      Private,                                                   P rincipal repayments                                             1,330         654
                                      171,705                                                    Interest payments                                                   892         204

  US$ millions                                                                                  IDA
                                                                                                 To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                   ­          ­
                                                                                                 Disbursements                                                            ­          ­
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                       2000            2 0 10          To tal debt service                                                      ­          ­

Time required to start a business (days)                                  ­         1 3         IFC (fiscal year)                                                2000         2007
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                          ­         1
                                                                                   1 .7          To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                    1,234         790
Time required to register pro perty (days)                                ­         74            o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                       723         693
                                                                                                 Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                               179         269
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                       2000           2008             P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                             repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                   66        384
  A ntico mpetitive o r info rmal practices                               ..     19.0
  Co rruptio n                                                            ..     17.8           M IGA
                                                                                                 Gro ss expo sure                                                         ­           ­
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                              21.5       21.3          New guarantees                                                           ­           ­
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                         9.6     14.4


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                                                 /1
                                                                                                                                                                              4/21 0
.. indicates data are no t available. ­ indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).


                                                                                          119
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                          Mexico


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate clo sest to date sho wn, +/- 2 years)                                                                                     M e xic o


G o a l 1: ha lv e t he ra t e s f o r e xt re m e po v e rt y a nd m a lnut rit io n                            19 9 0           19 9 5             2000                2008
 P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1   .25 a day (P P P , % o f po pulatio n)                                        7.7             7.0                 4.8                 <2
 P o verty headco unt ratio at natio nal po verty line (% o f po pulatio n)                                            ..               ..            24.2                17.6
 Share o f inco me o r co nsumptio n to the po o rest qunitile (%)                                                 3.2             4.3                 3.9                 4.6
 P revalence o f malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                                           13.9                  ..            6.0                  3.4


G o a l 2 : e ns ure t ha t c hildre n a re a ble t o c o m ple t e prim a ry s c ho o ling
 P rimary scho o l enro llment (net, %)                                                                            98                  ..                   97             98
 P rimary co mpletio n rate (% o f relevant age gro up)                                                             88                96                    99            105
 Seco ndary scho o l enro llment (gro ss, %)                                                                        55                58                    72             89
 Yo uth literacy rate (% o f peo ple ages 15-24)                                                                    95                96                    97             98


G o a l 3 : e lim ina t e ge nde r dis pa rit y in e duc a t io n a nd e m po we r wo m e n
 Ratio o f girls to bo ys in primary and seco ndary educatio n (%)                                                 97                   ..                  99             99
 Wo men emplo yed in the no nagricultural secto r (% o f no nagricultural emplo yment)                             37                 36                    37             39
 P ro po rtio n o f seats held by wo men in natio nal parliament (%)                                                12               14                     18              23


G o a l 4 : re duc e unde r- 5 m o rt a lit y by t wo - t hirds
 Under-5 mo rtality rate (per 1 ,000)                                                                                52               45                    38             35
 Infant mo rtality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                      42               36                    32             29
 M easles immunizatio n (pro po rtio n o f o ne-year o lds immunized, %)                                             75               90                    96             96


G o a l 5 : re duc e m a t e rna l m o rt a lit y by t hre e - f o urt hs
 M aternal mo rtality ratio (mo deled estimate, per 1     00,000 live births)                                          ..              ..                    ..            60
 B irths attended by skilled health staff (% o f to tal)                                                               ..           86                       ..            93
 Co ntraceptive prevalence (% o f wo men ages 1         5-49)                                                          ..            67                     70             71


G o a l 6 : ha lt a nd be gin t o re v e rs e t he s pre a d o f H IV / A ID S a nd o t he r m a jo r dis e a s e s
 P revalence o f HIV (% o f po pulatio n ages 1  5-49)                                                           0.2                 0.3                   0.3             0.3
 Incidence o f tuberculo sis (per 100,000 peo ple)                                                                 61                 44                   32              20
 Tuberculo sis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                        ..               13                    64              99


G o a l 7 : ha lv e t he pro po rt io n o f pe o ple wit ho ut s us t a ina ble a c c e s s t o ba s ic ne e ds
 A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                                                     88                   90                    93              95
 A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                                               56                   66                    76               81
 Fo rest area (% o f to tal land area)                                                                        35.5                  34.6                  33.7            33.0
 Natio nally pro tected areas (% o f to tal land area)                                                            ..                   ..                    ..            5.3
 CO2 emissio ns (metric to ns per capita)                                                                       4.5                  4.0                   3.9             4.1
 GDP per unit o f energy use (co nstant 2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                               6.8                   6.9                   7.9             7.7


G o a l 8 : de v e lo p a glo ba l pa rt ne rs hip f o r de v e lo pm e nt
                               00
 Telepho ne mainlines (per 1 peo ple)                                                                               6.4              9.7                  12.6             19.3
                                     00
 M o bile pho ne subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                        0.1              0.8                  14.4             70.8
                        00
 Internet users (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                     0.0              0.1                   5.2             21 .9
                               00
 P erso nal co mputers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                              0.8              2.6                   5.8            14.4



   Education indicators (%)                                   Measles immunization (% of 1-year                             ICT indicators (per 100 people)
                                                              olds)
   125                                                        100                                                           100
                                                                                                                             90
   100                                                                                                                       80
                                                               75
    75                                                                                                                       70
                                                                                                                             60
    50                                                         50                                                            50
                                                                                                                             40
    25
                                                                                                                             30
                                                               25
     0                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                             10
           2000     2002       2004        2006    2008         0                                                             0

                                                                          1990     1995     2000     2007                           2000      2002        2004    2006      2008
            Primary net enrollment ratio
                                                                                                                                         Fixed + mobile subscribers
            Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary            Mexico      Latin America & the Caribbean
            education                                                                                                                    Internet users




No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. .. indicates data are no t available.                                                                 /1
                                                                                                                                                                         4/21 0

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).



                                                                                 120
