                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2526



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-79450)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$450 MILLION


                                     TO

                      THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                   FOR A

      FRAMEWORK FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE
           WATER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                June 27, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2013)

                   Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                        MX$1.00 = US$0.07
                       US$1.00 = MX$13.17

                           FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 – December 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWGA      Alliance for Global Water Adaptation
BANSEFI    National Bank of Savings and Financial Services
          (Banco de Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros)
RBC       River Basin Council
          (Consejos de Cuenca)
RBO       River Basin Organization
          (Organizaciones de Cuenca)
CCA       Climate Change Adaptation
CICC       Inter-Ministerial Commission on Climate Change
          (Comisión Intersecretarial de Cambio Climático)
CONAFOR   National Forest Commission
          (Comisión Nacional Forestal)
CONAGUA    National Water Commission
          (Comisión Nacional del Agua)
COTAS      Aquifer Technical Committee
          (Comités Técnicos de Aguas Subterraneas)
COP 16    Conference of the Parties 16
DPL       Development Policy Loan
FY        Fiscal Year
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GOM       Government of Mexico
ha        Hectares
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IFI       International Financial Institutions
IMTA      Mexican Institute for Water Technology
          (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnología de Agua)
INEC      National Institute of Ecology and Climate Change
          (Instituto Nacional de Ecología y Cambio Climático)
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
IWRM      Integrated Water Resource Management
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
PDO       Project Development Objective
PECC       Special Program for Climate Change
           (Programa Especial de Cambio Climático)
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PMTUR      Program for Modernization and Technology Upgrade of Irrigation Units
PND         National Development Plan
           (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo)
PNH        National Water Program
           (Programa Nacional Hídrico)
PROTAR     Wastewater Treatment Program
           (Programa de Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales)
SEMARNAT    Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
           (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales)
SFA        Water Financial System
           (Sistema Financiero del Agua)
SPRMPA      Special Program for the Restoration of Micro-watersheds in Priority Areas
           (Programa Especial para la Restauración de la Microcuencas en Zonas
           Prioritarias)
TAP        Technical Assistance Program
           (Programa de Asistencia Técnica)
UNFCCC     United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
WTFP       Wastewater Treatment Funding Program




                  Vice President:          Hasan Tuluy
                Country Director:      Gloria M. Grandolini
                 Sector Manager:       Wambui G. Gichuri
               Task Team Leader:      Alessandra Campanaro
                ICR Team Leader       Alessandra Campanaro
                                                       MEXICO

FRAMEWORK FOR ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE WATER
           SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1 
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3 
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7 
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 15 
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16 
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17 
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 19 
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 20 
  Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 22 
  Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 23 
  Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 24 
  Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 28 
  Annex 6 – Stages of Climate Change Engagement in Mexico ..................................... 29 
  Annex 7 - Main Policy Actions Taken and Corresponding Outcomes ......................... 30 
  Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37 
  Annex 9. Interviews Conducted during the ICR Mission ............................................. 38 
  Annex 10. Maps ............................................................................................................ 39 
A. Basic Information
                                                                                Adaptation to Climate Change
Country:                            Mexico              Project Name:               in the Water Sector
                                                                                  Development Policy Loan
Project ID:                      P120134       L/C/TF Number(s):                        IBRD-79450
ICR Date:                       06/27/2013     ICR Type:                                  Core ICR
Lending Instrument:                DPL         Borrower:                        GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
Original Total
                              USD 450.00M      Disbursed Amount:              USD 450.00M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Borrower:
United Mexican States
Implementing Agency:
National Water Commission (CONAGUA) and Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
N.A.

B. Key Dates
                                                                                             Revised / Actual
      Process                Date                  Process              Original Date
                                                                                                 Date(s)
  Concept Review:         02/24/2010             Effectiveness:          12/13/2010             12/13/2010
     Appraisal:           04/19/2010         Restructuring(s):
      Approval:           06/10/2010         Mid-term Review:
                                                   Closing:              12/31/2012             12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                                                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                               Ratings
Quality at Entry:                 Satisfactory          Government:                          Satisfactory
                                                        Implementing Agency /
Quality of Supervision:           Satisfactory                                               Satisfactory
                                                        Agencies:
Overall Bank                                            Overall Borrower
                                  Satisfactory                                               Satisfactory
Performance:                                            Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                   QAG Assessments (if
                                   Indicators                                                 Rating
        Performance                                              any)
 Potential Problem Project at
                                       No             Quality at Entry (QEA):                  None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time                          Quality of Supervision
                                       No                                                      None
(Yes/No):                                             (QSA):
 DO rating before
                              Moderately Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Forestry                                                                  16                      16
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                     84                      84
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                                            14                      14
Environmental policies and institutions                                   14                      14
Water resource management                                                 72                      72


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                             At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:                            Hasan Tuluy                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:                       Gloria M. Grandolini                  Gloria M. Grandolini
Sector Manager:                         Wambui G. Gichuri                      Guang Zhe Chen
                                                                               Gustavo Saltiel &
Project Team Leader:                   Alessandra Campanaro
                                                                            Alessandra Campanaro
ICR Team Leader:                       Alessandra Campanaro
ICR Primary Authors:                    Maria Cecilia Zanetta


F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document – PAD)
The objective of the operation was to support the government's efforts to advance its strategy for
adaptation to climate change in the water sector by:
PDO 1. Strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in integrated water resources
        management (IWRM), and
PDO 2. Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDOs were not modified during the life of the loan.


(a) PDO Indicators
                                                  Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                   Values (from                          Achieved at
      Indicator            Baseline Value                           Revised Target
                                                     approval                           Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                   documents)                           Target Years
Policy Area 1 – Strengthening of the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in Integrated
                Water Resource Management (IWRM)
                       CONAGUA has established water quality monitoring sites in 13 river basin
Indicator 1
                       organizations.
Value
quantitative or                  400                    1,500                                5,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved                 12/31/2007             12/31/2012                           12/31/2012
                       Achieved (333% achievement): The implementation of a new water quality
Comments
                       monitoring system is a significant achievement. The improvement with respect to the
(incl. %
                       previous system is not only in terms of expanded number of sites and coverage, but
achievement)
                       also the frequency and the number of parameters being measured.
Indicator 2            CONAGUA is operating piezometric gauges.
Value
quantitative or                  220                      370                                 370
Qualitative)
Date achieved                12/31/2007             12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
                  Achieved (100% achievement): There are 370 piezometer gauges operational,
Comments
                  which provide measurements of static pressures for underground water and report
(incl. %
                  data in real time. This constitutes a 68 percent increase with respect to 2007.
achievement)
                  CONAGUA plans to triple the number of piezometer gauges by 2018.
Indicator 3       CONAGUA maintains and operates the hydro climatic stations.
Value
quantitative or            3,700                  3,700                                   3,692
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2007                12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
                  Achieved (99.8% achievement): CONAGUA continues to maintain its network of
Comments
                  hydrometric and climatologic stations, of which 900 report data on a daily basis. Of
(incl. %
                  these, 2,100 are operated directly by CONAGUA and the remaining ones are operated
achievement)
                  by third parties under institutional agreements.
                  CONAGUA has conducted 56,347 radio sounding measurements (baseline =3,787
Indicator 4
                  annually)
Value
                                             A total of 56,347
quantitative or        3,787 per year                                                    30,264
                                             measurements
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2007              12/31/2012                           12/31/2012
                  Not Achieved (54% achievement): The anticipated target was not achieved due to
Comments          the insufficient budgetary resources between 2007 and 2010 as well as cumbersome
(incl. %          procurement and distribution procedures, which affected the purchase of needed
achievement)      inputs. These problems have now been solved and radio sounding measurements are
                  being conducted regularly.
Indicator 5       CONAGUA has developed 18 additional plans for aquifers management.
Value
quantitative or              0                      18                                     19
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2007             12/31/2012                           12/31/2012
                  Achieved (106% achievement): CONAGUA has developed an additional 19 aquifer
Comments
                  management plans. These plans, which are developed with the participation of users
(incl. %
                  and other stakeholders, focus primarily on aquifers that are being overexploited or
achievement)
                  those that are approaching that stage.
Indicator 6       River Basin Organizations (RBOs) are implementing 13 water programs.
Value
quantitative or              0                      No                                     13
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2007             12/31/2012                               12/31/2012
                  Achieved (100% achievement): Water resources management plans were
Comments          developed by the RBOs and the Mexican Institute of Water Technology (IMTA). These
(incl. %          plans have already been published and are to be implemented under the 2013 budget.
achievement)      RBOs will be responsible for their implementation, as well as the various programs
                  that they include.
                  River Basin Councils (RBCs) are overseeing the execution of water resources
Indicator 7
                  management plans.
Value
                                                                                           21
quantitative or              0                      26
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2007              12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
                  Not achieved (81% achievement): RBCs are advisory bodies with representation
                  from key stakeholders in the sector, including state and municipal governments, water
Comments
                  users, civil society and non-governmental organizations. There are a total of 21
(incl. %
                  functioning RBCs, which meet at least once a year and are responsible for overseeing
achievement)
                  the implementation of water resources management plans. The remaining five RBCs
                  are expected to be fully operational and overseeing their corresponding plans in 2013.
                  Number of women, youth, and indigenous and elderly peoples with different abilities
Indicator 8       has increased through their inclusion in the Mexican Committee for Sustainable Use of
                  Water.
Value                         3                       5                                      5
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2007              12/31/2012                               12/31/2012
Comments
                   Achieved (100% achievement): Since 2009, diverse population groups are being
(incl. %
                   represented in the Mexican Committee for Sustainable Water Use.
achievement)
                   CONAGUA has published and is implementing regulations on use of water in priority
Indicator 9
                   basins.
Value
quantitative or               0                       4                                        0
Qualitative)
Date achieved             12/31/2007              12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
                   Achieved (0% achievement): While the technical aspects of new regulations on the
                   use of water in priority basins have been formulated, the legal aspects are still under
Comments
                   review. Thus, the regulations have not yet been adopted and are not being
(incl. %
                   implemented. Multiple layers of legal review at CONAGUA, SEMARNAT and the
achievement)
                   Presidency levels without clear and consistent criteria has proved to be a serious
                   bottleneck in the adoption of new regulation.
Indicator 10       CONAGUA has formulated regulations on water use in priority aquifers.
Value
quantitative or               0                       10                                      10
Qualitative)
Date achieved             12/31/2007               12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
                   Achieved (100% achievement): While new water use regulations have been
Comments           prepared for ten priority aquifers, none of these have yet been adopted due to
(incl. %           substantial delays in the review of legal aspects. These delays take a severe toll on
achievement)       the health of these already vulnerable aquifers, as in the meantime new wells continue
                   to be drilled and tons of water is being extracted.
Indicator 11       Water availability information for 718 rivers basins has been published.
Value
quantitative or               91                     718                                      722
Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2007               12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
                   Achieved (101% achievement): Water availability data has been published for 627
Comments           river basins, increasing the number from 91 to 718 river basins. The publication of
(incl. %           water availability has a significant impact on water management, as it is a key input in
achievement)       the decision to grant new concessions as well as the need to impose tighter
                   regulations.
                   Water banks are performing their role by facilitating the exchange of water rights and
Indicator 12
                   increasing transparency
                                                                                       A total of 13 water
Value
                                                                                       banks have been
quantitative or                  0                   No target
                                                                                      established, as well
Qualitative)
                                                                                     as 20 support offices.
Date achieved               12/31/2007              12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
                   No target was defined: Water banks are now operational in the main13 river basins
                   as well as CONAGUA’s 20 local offices, effectively covering the country’s entire
Comments
                   territory. By providing users with upfront advice on the technical, legal, and
(incl. %
                   administrative feasibility of transferring specific water rights, water banks are
achievement)
                   facilitating the process for users and enhancing transparency. This is denoted by the
                   high levels of satisfaction reported by users.
Policy Area 2 – Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs.
Indicator 13       Water availability information for 653 aquifers has been published.
Value
quantitative or              202                     653                                      653
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2007         12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
Comments           Achieved (100% achievement): Water availability has been published for another
(incl. %             451 aquifers, increasing the number from 202 to 653 aquifers. The publication of water
achievement)         availability has a significant impact on water management, as it is a key input in the
                     decision to grant new concessions as well as the need to impose tighter regulations
                     on individual aquifers.
Indicator 14         Reach a volume of 60 percent of treated waste water.
Value
quantitative or                 36.1                      60                                         47.5
Qualitative)
Date achieved                12/31/2007              12/31/2012                                12/31/2012
                     Not Achieved (79% achievement):               The treatment plants that are currently
                     operational have an estimated capacity of 97.6 m3/second—equivalent to 47.5
Comments
                     percent of collected waste water. Once the plants that are now under construction,
(incl. %
                     including the largest one in the country (i.e., Atotonilco) are completed in 2013 or early
achievement)
                     2014, the percentage of treated waste water is expected to reach more than 69.8
                     percent.
Indicator 15         Irrigated area with treated waste water in irrigation districts reaches 5,000 hectares.
Value
quantitative or                  0                       5,000                                      7,807
Qualitative)
Date achieved              12/31/2007               12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
                     Achieved (156% achievement): While there were some delays in program
Comments
                     implementation as a result of the need to put in place the legal agreements by which
(incl. %                                                 st
                     users commit to not utilizing 1 quality water for irrigation, the concept was
achievement)
                     successfully tested under a pilot program,
Indicator 16         Hectares of forest restored
Value
quantitative or                3,000                   13,863.9                                   26,377.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved               12/31/2009                 12/31/2012                                12/31/2012
                     Achieved (190% achievement): The successful implementation of CONAFOR’s
Comments
                     program resulted in its expansion to nine additional areas. The original target was
(incl. %
                     amply exceeded, with 26,377.6 ha of forest cover having been restored. Forest
achievement)
                     restoration in the high parts of the basin is particularly beneficial for the water lifecycle.
                     Productivity of irrigation districts has increased 2.8 percent annually to reach 1.66 kg
Indicator 17
                     per m³
Value
quantitative or                 1.41                     1.66                                        1.86
Qualitative)
Date achieved                12/31/2007              12/31/2012                                12/31/2012
Comments             Achieved (112% achievement): Productivity of irrigation decreased in 2009 and 2011
(incl. %             as a result of a freezing in Sinaloa and other climatic events that resulted in lost crops.
achievement)         It increased once again in 2012 to 1.86 kg/m3 by end-2012.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
           Date ISR                                                                     Actual Disbursements
 No.                                DO                               IP
          Archived                                                                         (USD millions)
   1     11/28/2010            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                              0.00
   2     05/21/2011            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                            448.88
   3     04/04/2012            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                            448.88
   4     01/02/2013        Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                     448.88
H. Restructuring (if any)
                               Board       ISR Ratings at   Amount Disbursed at    Reason for
    Restructuring                          Restructuring
                              Approved                        Restructuring      Restructuring &
       Date(s)
                             PDO Change     DO        IP      (in US$ million)  Key Changes Made

                   N.A.




I. Disbursement Graph
.

                          Disbursement Summary (in US $ Millions)
                  500
                  450
                  400
                  350
    US Millions




                  300
                  250
                  200
                  150
                  100
                  50
                   0
                                              2010 Q2
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Mexico’s Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector Program reflected the
natural convergence of the actions that the country had taken in the two fields over the past
decades. On the climate change arena, Mexico had emerged as a global leader. In 2010, it was the
only Non-Annex I country that had issued four communications to the United Nations
Framework for Climate Change (UNFCCC).1 As outlined under the Fourth Communication, the
country was moving swiftly to prepare mitigation and adaptation policies to tackle the most
pressing issues that affect the country’s main economic sectors. The Conference of the Parties 16
(COP 16) held in Mexico at the end of 2010 underscored Mexico’s leadership role and provided
an opportunity for the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio
Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, SEMARNAT) to further its position as a prominent international
player in the climate change dialogue.
2.      The water sector was also a key priority under Mexico’s over-arching strategy for
addressing climate change (Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático), particularly with relation
to vulnerability and adaptation issues. Likewise, the Special Climate Change Program (Programa
Especial de Cambio Climático, PECC) that was launched in 2009 identified low levels of water
availability and poor water quality as the main problems hampering sustained growth and
development and included adaptation to climate change in the water sector as a key policy area.
The water sector was also assigned a top priority within 2007-2012 National Development Plan
(Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, PND), which had as its main objective the achievement of
sustainable human development. According to it, the reduced availability of water caused by
population and economic growth, together with the unsustainable management of this resource,
could make water a limiting factor rather than a catalyst for sustainable development.
3.       The strategic importance given to water issues is not surprising. An estimated 35 million
Mexicans have low access to water in terms of both quantity and quality. One out of six of the
country's aquifers are overexploited. More than 50 percent of the groundwater used in the country
comes from overexploited aquifers, affecting primarily domestic and industrial use. Between
2002 and 2010, droughts and hurricanes affected more than 30 million people and accounted for
damage estimated at more than $456 billion Mexican Pesos, putting budgetary pressures at the
federal level.2
4.      In line with the streamlined lending approach outlined in the 2008-2013 Country
Partnership Strategy for Mexico (CPS, Report No. 42846-MX, March 4, 2008) that focused on
supporting the Government of Mexico’s (GOM) programs and policies contained in the PND, this
operation was designed to support the GOM's efforts to foster adaptation to climate change in the



1
  By 2010, Mexico had issued four national communications to the UNFCCC in 1997, 2001, 2009 and
2010. Together with Argentina, Jordan, Micronesia and Senegal, Mexico was among the first group of
Non-Annex I countries to issue national communications. In 2010, it was also the only country to have
issued a fourth communication, followed only by Uruguay which had issued three.
(http://unfccc.int/national_reports/non-annex_i_natcom/items/2979.php).
2
  Addressed by President Peña Nieto on the occasion of World Water Day, May 22, 2013.




                                                    1
water sector, contributing to long-term sustainable growth and protecting the most vulnerable
populations.
5.        The macroeconomic policy framework was adequate for a Development Policy Loan.
Fiscal and monetary policies had been well-managed in years preceding the 2008 global financial
crisis, resulting in a steady decline in public sector deficits and low, stable inflation rates. The
government had carefully managed both its external and domestic borrowing to reduce the
possibility of crowding out the private sector and to maintain Mexico’s external stability. As a
result, Mexico was well positioned to move into economic recovery and to manage its debt
burden.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
6.      The objectives of this operation and corresponding Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
were the following ones: 3
  PDO 1. Strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in integrated
                                  water resources management
 CONAGUA has established water quality monitoring sites in 13 river basin organizations
 CONAGUA is operating piezometric gauges
 CONAGUA maintains and operates the hydro climatic stations
 CONAGUA has conducted 56,347 radio sounding measurements
 CONAGUA has developed 18 plans for aquifers management
 River Basin Organizations are implementing 13 water programs
 River Basin Councils are overseeing the execution of water resources management plans
 Participation of women, youth, indigenous, elderly, people with different abilities has
   increased through their inclusion in the Mexican Committee for Sustainable Use of Water
 CONAGUA has published and is implementing regulations on use of water in priority basins
 CONAGUA has formulated regulations on water use in priority aquifers
 Water availability information for 718 rivers basins has been published
 Water banks are performing their role by facilitating the exchange of water rights and
   increasing transparency
           PDO 2. Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs
 Water availability information for 653 aquifers has been published
 Reach a volume of 60 percent of treated water
 Irrigated area with treated waste water in irrigation districts / units reaches 5,000 hectares
 Productivity of irrigation districts has increased 2.8 percent annually to reach 1.66 kg per m³


1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification
      Not Applicable

1.4     Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
Policy Area 1 - Strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in
integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM)




3
  The wording in the definition of the operation’s PDO varies slightly in the text of the various project
documents. The definition adopted for this ICR is the prevalent one and is included in the Loan Agreement
(Schedule I, page 6) as well as various sections of the Program Document, including the Description of the
Operation section and Policy Matrix in the Program Document (pages 33 and 57, respectively).


                                                    2
7.       The objective within this policy area was to strengthen institutions, regulations and
monitoring capacity to foster an integrated and sustainable management of the country’s water
resources. In Mexico, water issues are both complex and of strategic importance, as they
intercept a myriad of issues, including economic development, public finance, infrastructure
investment, environmental sustainability, climate change, and social justice. As a result, they are
approached through a broad integrated framework linking water resources with water use (i.e.,
water supply and sanitation, irrigation and drainage, energy and the environment) rather than
through sector-based investments. In this context, the IWRM model is considered to be a best
practice, as it enables the conservation of water through a more efficient allocation of the
resource; the resolution of conflicts among competing uses and users; the inclusion of the
accounting for the social, economic and environmental value of water; and the increased
participation of communities and the private sector in decision-making and financing. The
challenges in implementing a IWRM approach are many, as it is built upon principles that
represent a substantial departure from the traditional sector approach, including: i) coordinated
institutional arrangements that include all levels of government; ii) the participation of
communities, users and the private sector in decision-making and implementation of programs
and projects; and iii) the decentralization of decision-making and management responsibilities to
basin-centered institutions.
Policy Area 2 – Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs
8.      The policy objective within this policy area was to mainstream adaptation to climate
change by reforming financing mechanisms and normative and regulatory frameworks in the
water sector. This mainstreaming was to be done within Mexico’s water policy framework for the
period 2007-2012 set forth in the National Water Program (Programa Nacional Hídrico – PNH),
which established objectives, strategies and goals for the sustainable use of water while at the
same time recognizing its strategic value and fostering environmental protection. The PNH also
addressed climate change in the water sector as one of its objectives. In this context, Policy Area
2 focused on the development and adoption of a sectoral normative framework and financial
mechanisms supporting adaptation to climate change activities in water resource management;
agricultural water management; sustainable use and conservation of water, including waste water
treatment and reuse; and efficiency improvements for water utilities. The challenges associated
with mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in the water sector in Mexico are many,
including ensuring that sustainable planning frameworks incorporate climate change impacts and
mitigation as well as adaptation measures. This, in turn, implied a need to strengthen existing
federal programs and norms by incorporating a set of financial incentives that explicitly address
adaptation in the design and implementation of those programs and norms.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas
N/A


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance
   Tranche # 1        Amount       Expected Release Date     Actual Release Date       Release
  Single Tranche      US$450           July 21, 2010            Dec. 16, 2010          Regular




                                                3
                                                    Tranche 1
               Conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                              Status
     Policy Area 1 - Strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in integrated water
                                              resources management
    1. Mexico has strengthened its commitment to climate change in the water
                                                                                                Met
       sector by submitting the Fourth Communication to the UNFCCC.
    2. CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for IWRM by
       increasing the responsibility to 18 River Basin Councils to oversee, plan and            Met
       manage projects and programs established in Watershed Management Plans.
    3. CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for IWRM by
       setting up two water banks in order to foster the sustainable management and             Met
       efficient administration of water resources.
                Policy Area 2 – Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs
    4. CONAGUA has issued two norms to provide regulatory instruments to
                                                                                                Met
       promote the conservation of groundwater resources.
    5. CONAGUA has incorporated in the Wastewater Treatment Funding Program
       criteria promoting the recharge of aquifers and water reuse for conservation             Met
       of groundwater resources.
    6. CONAFOR has issued operating rules for the Special Program for the
       Conservation and Protection of Micro-watersheds in priority areas to promote             Met
       reduction of soil erosion, reforestation and forest protection.
    7. CONAGUA has taken measures to strengthen the protection of overexploited
       aquifers by means of its programs to improve the water productivity of                   Met
       irrigation.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation
9.       In addition to a favorable macroeconomic environment, there were several factors that
positively affected the operation’s implementation, as described below:
10.      Strong government commitment to climate change. As mentioned above, Mexico is
one of the global climate change leaders among non-industrialized countries.4 The GoM has been
actively pursuing the development of a climate change national strategy over the past two decades,
having been making steady progress toward building the necessary institutional and legal
scaffolding. This DPL, together with support for the preparation to adaptation plans at the state
level, reflected the GoM’s growing demand for adaptation support.
11.      Long-standing collaboration between the GoM and the Bank on climate change. The
GOM’s commitment to climate change issues has received full Bank support from the mid-1990s
onward. At the time of preparation, there was a total of 35 initiatives, either active or in the
pipeline, financed by various sources, including IBRD loans, GEF grants, carbon finance
emission reductions purchase agreements (ERPAs), and other financial instruments (see Annex 6
for a detailed account of the Bank’s Climate Change Engagement in Mexico). Preceding IBRD
operations in other sectors offered useful precedents for the mainstreaming of climate change into
sector policies.5 Until this DPL, the emphasis had been mainly on mitigation.



4
  Mexico was one of the first non-Annex I countries to submit a national communication in 1997. Presently,
it stands as the only one that has issued five communications, followed only by Uruguay with four
communications.
5
  For example, the Programmatic Environmental Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) approved in 2002
and 2005 were a landmark in mainstreaming the environmental sustainability principle in sector policies for
tourism, energy, forestry, and water, as prioritized by the GoM. The operation design built over this
precedent to mainstream climate change into water sector policies.


                                                       4
12.      The operation built on the operational experience gained and the progress achieved
in water resources management and efficiency in Mexico. The Bank has a long history of
policy dialogue in Mexico’s water sector, dating back to the early 1970s. The Bank has provided -
significant operational support the GoM on water resources management, irrigation and drainage,
and water supply and sanitation. This long-term engagement, in turn, resulted in a solid
operational relationship with Mexico’s Water Commission (Comisión Nacional del Agua -
CONAGUA) and SEMARNAT, the two main players in the water sector at the federal level.
13.      Strong knowledge base: The preparation of this DPL also benefited from an extensive
set of analytical studies focusing on public expenditure reviews (PERs) as well as climate change
and water management in Mexico. It also benefitted from the results of the Bank’s Mid-Cycle
Implementation Progress Report of the Water Resources Strategy, which highlighted the efforts
to position water at the core of the adaptation and mitigation solution. The operation was also
informed by the growing global and regional bibliography on the risks of climate change, its
potential environmental and social impacts, water adaptation issues, the economic aspects of
adaptation to climate change, and water adaptation issues by, among others, the European
Environmental Agency, the Global Water Partnership, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change. UN agencies, the Stern Report, the World Water Council and the World Bank.
14.      Focus on current governance frameworks and ongoing adaptation activities. The
operation’s main focus was on climate change adaptation (CCA) actions that were already part of
the core business of the participating institutions (i.e., SEMARNAT, CONAGUA, and
CONAFOR). Although not necessarily perceived as having a CCA focus, these practices,
considerations and modalities had been incorporated over the years in response to specific needs
of each organization to carry out as best as possible their daily tasks in the face of uncertainty
under current climate conditions. This approach was highly effective, as it helped ensure their
mainstreaming and helped minimize institutional resistance related to the incorporation of
additional tasks and ensured the mainstreaming of the CCA agenda.
15.      The COP was a strong motivator. The operation fully capitalized on the window of
opportunity that opened as a result of Mexico being the host country for the COP 16 at the end of
2010. The meeting served as a catalyst to raise the importance of CCA issues within CONAGUA
and prepare fertile ground for the implementation of this DPL.
16.      Non-additionality acted as a disincentive for participating institutions. As it is the
case with World Bank lending in Mexico, the financial resources attached to this DPL were a
transfer to the Treasury and not to the sector agencies; hence, there were limited incentives for
sector agencies to support these instruments. As a result, any requirement associated to a project
or program is often perceived as a burden—even if they are part of their routine activities.
17.      Robust additional technical support was provided. A Technical Assistance Program
(TAP) was put in place to support the implementation of the program supported by this DPL.
With a total of roughly US$1 million, this TA program focused on five main strategic areas: a)
providing support to CONAGUA’s efforts towards the creation of a long-term planning vision for
the sector; b) strengthening the financial system in the water sector; c) promoting water resources
management and adaptation to climate change at the Basin level; d) providing support to the
modernization of the Meteorological Service; and e) mainstreaming adaptation to Climate
Change in the water sector. The TAP not only provided support to buttress policy dialogue on key
issues on CCA in the water sector but, in some cases, also served to offset the resistance of
administrative units within CONAGUA. With regard to the TA Program, it is important to
commend the Bank team, as it required significant effort on its part to identify funding sources—
often trust funds—and to carry out their supervision.




                                                5
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
18.      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design: Overall, the DPL program benefited from
a strong M&E system embedded in the operation’s Policy Matrix, with a robust set of KPIs. In
line with the Bank’s approach to closely align its operations with the PND, the KPIs were also
those included in the PND and the various other planning instruments that are articulated with the
PND, including the National Water Plan, the Fourth Communication to the UNFCCC, and the
Special Climate Change Program (Programa Especial de Cambio Climático 2009-2012 - PECC).
Building upon existing M&E systems had several advantages, including minimizing additional
M&E activities for these agencies and ensuring the KPI periodic reporting as it is mandated by
Mexico’s Planning Law (Ley de Planeación, Art. 6). As the indicators in the PND, however, the
operation’s KPIs do not distinguish between intermediate outputs and outcomes, which would
have been desirable.
19.      With respect to individual KPIs, it is worth noting how the specific wording can
significantly alter what is being measured. Specifically, there are two KPIs focusing on
CONAGUA’s regulatory functions included in the Policy Matrix. While the two of them are
aimed at measuring the issuing of water-use regulation (i.e., pertaining priority basins and
aquifers, respectively), one of them called for regulations being “published and being
implemented,? while the other one called for them being “formulated?. The same level of
progress has been made in both cases, as a sound set of regulations has indeed been formulated in
each case. However, as discussed in further detail below, due to the convoluted legal review
processes that are currently in place, no new regulations have been approved and published in the
Official Bulletin (Diario Oficial) and, as a result, they are not being implemented. Because of the
wording, however, one of the KPIs is considered as having been achieved, although it has not had
any substantive impact.
20.      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation: The Bank regularly monitored
progress under the DPL through periodic Bank supervision missions. SEMARNAT and
CONAGUA conducted effective overall M&E of the actions included in the Policy Matrix as
well as the activities being supported under the TA program, collecting data needed from the
various units within CONAGUA as well as the other participating agencies.
21.      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization: The M&E system, which, as
mentioned earlier, is a sub-set of the indicators included in the PND, proved useful as a basic
pulse-taking tool to assess progress toward implementation of both the DPL series as well as the
Government’s Plan. Moreover, it highlighted CCA actions that were already being performed
within the water sector, thus contributing to enhancing their profile and CCA focus.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):
        Two new IBRD and bilateral operations build upon this DPL as follows:
22.     Mexico Forests and Climate Change Project (Loan No. 8120-MX; US$350 million;
approved on January 31, 2012): This project builds upon the DPL activities implemented by
CONAFOR. It aims to support rural communities in Mexico to sustainably manage their forests,
build social organization, and generate additional income from forest products and services
including from reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation.
23.     Modernization of the National Meteorological Service for Improved Climate
Adaptation (Loan No. 8165-MX; US$105.26 million; approved on May 17 2012): This project
builds upon the activities conducted under the TAP associated to this DPL. It aims to strengthen
the human resources, institutional, and infrastructure capacity of the National Meteorological
Service (SMN) to meet the increasing demand for timely and accurate weather and climate
information for the purposes of water resources and disaster risk management in the face of
climate change and climate variability.



                                                6
24.     French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement - AFD): The AFD
is currently preparing an operation to support climate change adaptation in the water sector that
builds upon this DPL’s Policy Matrix.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
         The objectives of the DPL continue to be highly relevant, particularly in view of:
25.      Strategic importance of water in Mexico: As mentioned earlier, the impacts of climate
change on this resource are a clear threat. Water has been declared at the highest possible level as
a “strategic resource… and issue of national security? (COLMEX, 2003, p. 131). The incoming
President has also underscored the strategic importance of water for Mexico’s national security
and the country’s continuous economic development.
26.      Wide political support for climate change agenda: This is denoted by the approval of
Mexico’s Climate Change legislation in 2012, which was passed with overwhelming bi-partisan
support.6
27.      Continuous support from incoming administration: In a multi-party subscribed in
December 2012, incoming authorities have already made explicit their commitment to continue to
make climate change one of the country’s priorities and promote the sustainable, rational
utilization of water resources using several instruments, including payment mechanisms for
environmental services to promote the restoration and conservation of forests and water resources
(Pacto por México, 2012).7 In addition, the water agenda to be implemented under the incoming
administration emphasizes proactive prevention and early intervention, is fully aligned with the
objectives of this DPL, including the institutional strengthening of water institutions and
monitoring networks to promote water conservation and reduce water-related vulnerability. In
this regard, it is important to highlight the President’s new restrictions on water extraction (“libre
alumbramiento?), which point to the administration’s determination to step up water
conservation.8

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
28.      The operation has largely achieved its two objectives and, in many cases—on the policy
front particularly—actual achievements have amply exceeded original expectations. In this
regard, it is important to underscore the progress since the last ISR was filed in November 2012,
when the Project’s PDO Achievement and Implementation Progress were rated Moderately
Satisfactory due to the preliminary unclear outlook on reported achievement for several targets.
Since then, their achievement has been confirmed or exceeded—e.g., area irrigated with treated
waste water; productivity of irrigation districts, and area of forests restored. Moreover, the new
administration has taken alternative measures—e.g., the suspension of unrestricted drilling of new
wells—that ameliorate the negative impact of the current weaknesses in CONAGUA’s regulatory




6
  The 2012 Climate Change legislation was passed with a vote of 128 for and 10 against, and was later
passed unanimously by the Senate.
7
  http://www.scribd.com/doc/115226400/Pacto-Por-Mexico-TODOS-los-acuerdos
8
  http://www.radioformula.com.mx/reproductor.asp.


                                                  7
functions. The main achievements can be summarized as follows: (see Annex 7 for a detailed
description of the operation’s outcomes).9
Policy Area 1 - Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM)
Ranking: Satisfactory
29.      This DPL supported CONAGUA’s efforts to further strengthen the integrated and
sustainable management of water basins and aquifers, which was an explicit objective of the
2008-2012 PND (i.e., Pillar 2, Objective 16). The operation built upon the IWRM’s operational
principles, emphasizing the coordinated development and management of water, land and related
resources as a way to maximize the resultant economic and social welfare in an equitable manner
without compromising the sustainability of vital ecosystems. This integrated view was fully
reflected in the operation’s Policy Matrix, which included multiple dimensions of water
management as well as the multiplicity of relevant stakeholders. As a result, the operation has
contributed to breaking silos within CONAGUA’s sub-sectors and sub-divisions, supporting a
more integrated and holistic approach toward water management.
30.      There was substantial progress toward PDO 1 - Strengthening the IWRM institutional
framework and monitoring capacity along four distinctive dimensions: i) GoM’s commitment to
CCA in the water sector; ii) monitoring capacity for measuring the impact of climate change on
the water cycle; iii) planning and management of water resources at the basin level; and iv)
regulatory and administrative capacity of water resources, including transfer of water rights.
31.      All but three of the 12 KPIs associated to this PDO have been achieved or exceeded.
While two of the three KPIs that were not fully achieved represent minor shortcomings, the third
one points to cumbersome and convoluted legal review procedures that hinder CONAGUA’s
regulatory effectiveness in promoting water conservation. However, the GoM is taking other
measures to overcome this shortcoming, including the recent enactment of a presidential decree
suspending the free perforation of new wells in all national aquifers.

32.      GOM’s commitment to CCA in the water sector: The GoM has continued to be at the
forefront of CCA issues, restating its commitment to foster climate change adaptation in general
and in the water sector in particular. This commitment is underscored by the substantial progress
being made toward the development of a national CCA strategy, including building the
underlying legal and institutional frameworks. Some of the specific outcomes include:
 The GoM submitted the Fourth and Fifth National Communications to the UNFCCC. Mexico
    is the only Non-Annex I country to have submitted five national communications. The latest
    communication (September 2012) presents the new institutional framework for climate
    change and mitigation as defined under the newly enacted Climate Change Law.
 Enacted in June 2012, the new General Climate Change Law provides a unifying legal
    framework for the country’s climate change policy and establishes the foundations for an
    ambitious National Climate Change Policy and the supporting planning, coordination and
    M&E mechanisms. The law also establishes a Climate Change Fund with the objective of
    raising funds from public and private entities for the implementation of adaptation plans.
 Climate-change focused planning instruments. The federal government produced its National
    Climate Change Strategy (CCS) in 2007, followed by the PECC in 2009. Fifty out of the
    PEC’s 294 targets, are directly related to water, mainly in the context of adaptation. In
    addition, the 2007-2012 PNH was the first one to have a specific objective related to climate
    change.


9
 The outcomes being reported in this ICR reflect those in the 2012 official reports corresponding to the
various planning instruments in which they are embedded as well as complementary information collected
during the ICR mission and other documents.


                                                   8
    Sector-level CCA strategic framework. In November 2012, SEMARNAT and INECC
     presented a CCA Strategic Framework (Adaptación al Cambio Climático en México: Visión,
     elementos y criterios para la toma de decisions) that establishes the criteria to identify,
     articulate and direct policy instruments to strengthen adaption capacity of ecosystems,
     production systems and society in general. The development of this strategic framework,
     which was one of the goals of the 2009-2012 PECC, lays the foundation for development of
     the adaptation component of the next National Strategy for Climate Change to be developed
     in 2013.
33.       Strengthening of monitoring capacity: An expanded, more reliable monitoring system
for measuring the impact of climate change in the water cycle is now in place. Strengthened
monitoring capacity will render more complete, accurate, and timely data on climate and water
resources to be used in the development of a sound technical knowledge base on the impacts of
climate change on water. Such knowledge base will help strengthen forecasting tools—such as
the Climate change Water Vulnerability Atlas that is currently being developed by CONAGUA—
to better anticipate and interpret more precisely the future impacts of climate change on the
components of the water cycle as well as outline the actions to be carried out to cope with these
changes. This constitutes a major achievement, given Mexico’s strong limitations on the
availability of data to measure resilience and information systems on water in general. The spin-
off operation—i.e., Modernization of the National Meteorological Service for Improved Climate
Adaptation Loan—continues to support the strengthening of the observation network for water
and climate variables that play a role in climate change adaptation. The importance given by the
GoM to the continuous strengthening of monitoring capacity is underscored by a US$70 million
contribution in counterpart funds. The main outcomes include:
 Increase in the number of water quality monitoring sites from 400 to 5,000 between 2007 and
     2012, amply exceeding the 1,500 target.
 Increase in the number of operational piezometer gauges from 220 to 370 between 2012, in
     line with the original target.
 CONAGUA continues to support a network of 3,700 hydrometric and climatologic stations,
     In line with the original target.
 A total of 30,264 radio sounding measurements between 2007 and 2012, which represents
     roughly 54 percent the original target due to the lack of budgetary resources between 2007
     and 2010. This problem has now been overcome and radio sounding measurements are being
     conducted regularly.
34.       Planning and management of water resources at the basin level: Basin-centered
institutions are playing an increasingly active role in the development of water resources
management plans and the implementation of water programs, which is in line with the IWRM
guiding principles of decentralized, participatory, multi-sector planning and management of water
resources. While basin centered institutions have not yet achieved their full potential, they are all
now operational and are gradually fulfilling their assigned roles. The main outcomes include:
 CONAGUA has transferred some of its functions and responsibilities to river basin
     organizations (RBOs, organismos de cuenca). The RBOs are specialized units of CONAGUA
     with technical and administrative autonomy to exercise the functions assigned to them by
     law, including participation in the formulation of regional policy and programs, the definition
     of water user fees and their collection.
 A total of 26 River Basin Councils (RBCs) have been established with representation from
     key stakeholders in the sector, including state and municipal governments, water users, civil
     society and non-governmental organizations.
 Water resources management plans have been developed in a participatory manner in each of
     the 13 hydrological administrative regions. As envisioned, the RBOs are responsible for their
     implementation. Twenty-one RBCs (out of the original target of 26 RBCs) are overseeing the
     implementation of water programs included under these plans.


                                                 9
   An additional 19 aquifer management plans have been developed with the participation of
    users and other stakeholders, slightly over the 18 that were originally envisioned. They focus
    primarily on aquifers that are being overexploited or those that are approaching that stage.
 Participation of women, youth, and elderly and indigenous populations has increased through
    their inclusion in the Mexican Committee for Sustainable Use of Water since 2009.
35.      Regulatory and administrative capacity of water resources: CONAGUA has
continued to strengthen the institutional framework to further enhance transparency and
effectiveness in the management of water resources. Water banks are now operational in the
country’s entire territory, providing users upfront advice on the technical, legal, and
administrative feasibility of transferring specific water rights. Likewise, the publication of water
availability for river basins has been expanded substantially, providing a key input in enhancing
the administration of water resources, including decision on whether to grant new concessions as
well as the need to impose tighter regulations. Unfortunately, cumbersome and slow legal review
procedures that are partly outside the CONAGUA’s orbit hamper the agency’s regulatory
functions regarding water conservation. While this is clearly a shortcoming that needs to be
addressed in the medium term, a recently enacted presidential decree imposed more stringent
controls on underground water utilization. The main outcomes include:
 Thirteen water banks and twenty support offices have been established, serving Mexico’s
    entire territory. Rather than being conceived as a trading floor for water rights, the water
    banks are primarily aimed at enhancing the overall transparency of the transfer of water
    rights, facilitating the process for users and fostering rational decision making on their part.
    Their effectiveness is denoted by the high levels of satisfaction reported by users.10 There is
    no indication that processing times have improved significantly, as parts of the administrative
    process of water rights transfer is outside the orbit of the water banks.
 Water availability has been published for 627 river basins, increasing the number from 91 to
    722 river basins. In addition, CONAGUA has also identified areas to be designated as
    reserves in the medium and long term, laying the technical foundations necessary to regulate
    the use of superficial water.
 New regulations have been formulated on the use of water in priority basins and aquifers.
    However, the legal aspects are still under review and, thus, the regulations have not been
    enacted. Specifically, four new regulations have been formulated on the use of water of
    priority basins, with progress toward their official publication and enactment being estimated
    at 82 percent. Likewise, ten new regulations have been formulated on the use of water in
    priority aquifers, with progress toward their official publication and enactment being
    estimated at 91 percent. However, multiple layers of legal review at CONAGUA,
    SEMARNAT and the Presidency levels and the lack of clear and consistent criteria has
    proved to be a serious bottleneck in the enactment of these regulations. This is particularly
    serious in the context of priority basins and aquifers that are already highly vulnerable and
    susceptible to the overuse that continues to take place during the protracted review period.
    This is one of the reasons leading to the preparation of a new water law, which is currently
    being formulated.
 Despite this weakness, the GoM has taken other actions to strengthen underground water
    conservation, including the signing of a Presidential Decree in May 2013 requiring
    CONAGUA’s permission for any new well perforation. The impact of this measure is
    substantial; before the new restriction was put in place, only 55 percent of the national
    territory required permission from CONAGUA to extract groundwater, while the remaining


10
   Customers report over 99 percent satisfaction in the surveys that were conducted among 5,000 users in
2011, with 86.43% percent characterizing the services provided by the water banks as excellent and 12.2
percent as “good? (CONAGUA’s Compendio Estadístico de Administración del Agua 2012, p. 26).


                                                  10
     45 percent was allowed to extract water at any time and quantity in non-priority aquifers (ibre
     alumbramiento). Under the new Presidential Decree, any water extraction requires
     CONAGUA’s permission.
Policy Area 2 – Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs
Ranking: Satisfactory
36.       This DPL supported CONAGUA’s efforts to mainstream adaptation to climate change in
water programs, which was consistent with the PNH’s new focus on climate change in the water
sector (i.e., Objective No. 7). Specifically, this policy area focused on the development and
adoption of a water sector normative framework and financial mechanisms supporting adaptation
to climate change activities with a specific focus on: i) aquifer recharge; ii) climate change
adaptation practices in treatment plants; iii) forest restoration; and iv) irrigation efficiency. This
mainstreaming has been mainly the result of identifying current practices and programs within the
institution that pertain not just to water management but also climate change adaptation. By
bringing together these previously disjointed and often obscure programs and regulations under
the climate change thematic umbrella, this operation also contributed toward enhancing the
importance of climate change issues in water programs and the adoption of a more integrated
view toward adaptation to climate change within both CONAGUA and CONAFOR.
37.       Significant progress has been made toward PDO 2 - Mainstreaming climate change
adaptation into CONAGUA’s operations. All but one of the KPIs associated to this PDO have
been achieved or exceeded. The remaining target (i.e., volume of waste water treated) is expected
to be achieved once the treatment plants that are now under construction are completed in 2013 or
early 2014 (see Datasheet).
38.       Aquifer recharge: There has been sustained progress to promote artificial aquifer
recharge to mitigate the effects of overexploitation. The main outcomes include:
 New regulations have been issued to promote the conservation of groundwater resources,
     including requirements for the recharge of aquifers with treated water and artificial recharge
     from rainwater and drainage in projects with a flow of at least 60 liters/second.
 CONAGUA now publishes water availability for all the aquifers in the country. Between
     1997 and 2012, CONAGUA more than tripled the number of aquifers with published
     information on water availability, from 202 to 653 aquifers. The publication of water
     availability of aquifers has a significant impact on water management, as it is a key input in
     the decision to grant new concessions as well as the need to impose tighter regulations on
     individual aquifers.
 A pilot program has been successfully implemented to promote the utilization of treated
     water in irrigation. Although it proved more time-consuming than anticipated due to the need
     to subscribe legal agreements with users who agree not to use first-quality water for
     irrigation, the concept has been successfully tested. There are now 7,807 hectares being
     irrigated only with treated water, exceeding the original goal of 5,000 hectares.
39.       CCA-conducive financial incentives for treatment plants:                  CONAGUA has
incorporated in its Wastewater Treatment Program (Programa de Tratamiento de Aguas
Residuales - PROTAR) criteria promoting the recharge of aquifers and water reuse for the
conservation of groundwater resources. The program, which provides funding to water providers
for the expansion, construction or rehabilitation of treatment plans, provides financial incentives
to those projects that favor climate change adaptation actions, such as the reuse of treated
effluent—i.e., the higher the percentage of waste water reused, the higher the amount of funding.
Operation and maintenance costs are partly funded through transfers based on volume of waste
water treated to pre-defined quality standards. The main outcomes include:
 The volume of treated water increased from 38.3 to 47.5 percent of collected waste water
     between 2007 and 2012.




                                                 11
   The anticipated 60 percent target is expected to be achieved and exceeded in 2013 or early
    2014, once the various treatment plants that are currently in the pipeline are completed. One
    of them is the Atotonilco treatment plant, which is the largest in the country with a 23
    m3/second planned capacity. While there have been delays in construction, it currently
    presents 54 percent of progress and is expected to be completed in 2013 or early 2014. This
    treatment plant will benefit from the financial incentives for operation and maintenance.
40.      Forest restoration: CONAFOR has issued operating rules for the Special Program for
the Conservation and Protection of Micro-Watersheds (SPRMPA) in priority areas to promote the
reduction of soil erosion, reforestation, and forest protection. SPRMPA promotes soil
conservation and reforestation activities in degraded areas as a means to mitigate the effects of
climate change. The program has several notable elements, including an emphasis on the
conservation of micro-watersheds that is critical for water resource management and an
innovative payment mechanism to offset the opportunity costs associated with forgoing forest
conversion. The main outcomes include:
 In its preliminary phase, the program focused on the Cutzamala watershed, and was later
    expanded to nine additional areas. Degraded areas of micro-watersheds in priority areas and
    forest cover are being restored under the program. Specifically, the area of restored forests
    has increased significantly, from 3,000 to 23,704 hectares between 2009 and 2012, amply
    exceeding the original target of 13,000 hectares.
 Moreover, CONAFOR reports that the pilot experience financed under this operation had
    several institutional impacts, including strengthening the importance given to water
    resources in the context of the program, and successfully testing the principle of integrated
    interventions, which was subsequently extended to other programs.
 A US$350 million IBRD operation (i.e., the Forests and Climate Change Project; approved in
    January 2013) continues to provide support to this action.
41.      Irrigation: CONAGUA has strengthened the protection of overexploited aquifers by
means of its programs to improve the water productivity of irrigation. The agricultural sector is
the main user of water, consuming approximately 77 percent of water resources. As a result,
effective water policy must include measures to reduce the demand for water in agriculture,
improve the efficiency of irrigation systems, and increase the adoption of water-saving
technologies. The main outcomes include:
 The operating rules of the Program for Modernization and Technology Upgrade of Irrigation
    Units (PMTUR) incorporated new criteria prioritizing activities that improve the
    sustainability of the resource. As a result, and despite a decrease in 2011 due to the freezing
    in the State of Sinaloa, the productivity of irrigation districts has increased from 1.41 to 1.86
    kg per m3 between 2007 and 2012, compared to the original target of 1.66 kg per m³.
42. Other outcomes:
 CONAGUA was responsible for the implementation of 41 of the 50 water-related targets
    included under the 2009-2012 PECC, while the remaining nine are implemented jointly with
    other institutions. As of July 2012, CONAGUA was among the agencies with the highest
    achievement of PECC targets, with 88 percent for climate change targets as a whole and 98
    percent for those focusing on adaptation.
 All CONAGUA technical staff is required to take training on climate change in the water
    sector, with a duration of eight hours and 30-question final evaluation. Up to now, 2,861
    CONAGUA technical staff members have taken the course, which is a requirement of
    CONAGUA’s administrative service career.
 CCA is being given increasing importance in the context of water resources, as denoted by its
    prominence in recent CONAGUA’s publications, including a two-part series in Reportes
    Económicos in 2011 and an article in the Gaceta del Agua 2012.




                                                 12
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
43.       The policies supported under this DPL continue to be highly relevant for the GOM, as
they are placed at the intercept of two long-term national strategies focusing on climate change
readiness and the sustainable management of water resources. The GoM has continued to
demonstrate strong commitment to a broad policy program on climate change and water
adaptation. Overall, there have been important advances highlighting the growing centrality of
climate change adaptation issues in Mexico at all government levels. These advances include a
new Climate Change Law, a new national adaptation strategy, and the Fifth Communication to
the UNFCCC, which makes Mexico the Non-Annex I country with most national
communications.
44.       The operation has also been highly effective, as denoted by the substantial PDO
achievement. As envisioned under Policy Area 1, CONAGUA has continued to strengthen
IWRM monitoring capacity and the institutional framework. A more precise and reliable
monitoring network is now in place to measure the impact of climate change in the water cycle.
In addition, basin-centered institutions are playing an increasingly active role in the planning and
management of water resources. Finally, water banks are now operational throughout the country,
facilitating and enhancing the transparency of the transfer of water rights. While protracted legal
review procedures of new regulation remain an obstacle for the enhancement of overall
CONAGUA’s effectiveness and the strengthening of the IWRM framework, the GoM is taking
alternative measures to step up water conservation. Likewise, substantial progress has also been
made under Policy Area 2, with CONAGUA having made great strides toward mainstreaming
climate change adaptation into its current operations by developing and adopting a water sector
normative framework and financial mechanisms that are conducive to CCA activities in water
resource management, agricultural water management, sustainable use and conservation of water.
Notable achievements have also taken place in micro-watershed and forest cover restoration
programs under CONAFOR’s orbit, contributing toward an enhanced awareness of the
importance of water management issues in the context of adaptation to climate change at the
agency level.
45.       In addition, through its support to CONAGUA’s active participation in international
forums, the operation has made a substantial contribution toward raising the importance of water
issues in the climate change global agenda and contributed toward South-South learning and
knowledge sharing initiatives. In this regard, as well as for the operation’s PDO achievement in
general, it is important to underscore the significant contribution made by the Technical
Assistance Program that was implemented under this operation. It provided needed technical and
financial resources for participating agencies, which also provided valuable incentives to these
agencies in the context of Mexico’s non-additionality policy.
46.       The policy supported under this operation can be expected to have utmost economic
efficiency given the strategic value of water resources in Mexico, not just for agriculture, tourism
and economic production in general but also to ensure adequate access to water for its population,
the poor in particular.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
47.     In Mexico as elsewhere, climate change may push the poor beyond their ability to cope,
particularly as a result of their lack of access to water resources. This operation can be expected
to have a significant positive impact on the country’s poor and vulnerable communities. Broadly
speaking, poor farmers located in the semi-arid and arid central and northern parts of the country
will benefit more from measures aimed at improving water availability through watershed
management, aquifer recharge, and water efficiency and savings. Measures aimed at improving
water quality are likely to produce larger benefits for the poor living in the southern states, where


                                                 13
the largest infrastructure gaps remain, those living in slums that lack piped water or sanitation;
and those living in areas at risk of extreme weather events, such as coastal areas, unstable slopes,
and flood plains.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
48.      As described above, this operation had a significant institutional impact, including the
approval of a new Climate Change Law, greater focus on climate change in the framework of
planning instruments and programs at the federal level, and CONAGUA’s institutional
strengthening with a dual focus on IWRM and adaptation in the water sector. In addition, the
operation had a substantial impact in institutional strengthening in the areas supported under the
TAP. All TAP activities envisioned at appraisal were implemented successfully and particularly
notable were the achievements in the strengthening of the SMN and the advancement of water
issues in the global climate change agenda. The only exception was the implementation of a pilot
experience in water resources management and adaptation to climate change at the Yaqui basin,
for which several technical studies were conducted but were not fully implemented due to longer
than expected time required for the processing of fund transfers to the local
implementation agency.11 Specifically:
     CONAGUA’s long-term planning vision. Advisory services were provided under this
      operation throughout the process of the formulation of Vision 2030 for CONAGUA, a long-
      term vision for the future of water resources in Mexico. The final product will be the National
      Water Resources Climate Change Adaptation Strategy, which is currently under preparation.
     Financial System in the Water Sector. The World Bank team, together with CONAGUA
      and the Ministry of Finance organized a stakeholder conference to build consensus over the
      main parameters of water financing system, including its definition, scope, and the
      identification of a set of new financing schemes for the long-term funding of hydro-
      agricultural projects as well as a Water Emergency Fund to be made available in the case of
      disasters caused by extreme hydro-meteorological events. This TAP also supported the
      preparation of the Water Financial System (Sistema Financiero del Agua – SFA), which is
      now being published.
     National Program for the Modernization of the Meteorological Service. Advisory
      services were provided to the National Meteorological Service, including technical
      workshops for capacity building. These activities, in turn, resulted in the preparation of a new
      IBRD-financed SIL that supports the modernization of the NMS.
     Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector at the Global Level.
      Advisory services under this operation also focused on supporting CONAGUA’s
      participation in the COP 16 meeting, which was held in Cancun at the end of 2010. With the
      Bank’s support, CONAGUA seized the opportunity to present its contributions to climate
      change in the water sector and take on a global leadership role. During the COP 16,
      CONAGUA became an active participant in two international bodies focusing on climate
      change in relation to water issues: the Water and Climate Coalition (WCC), which has as its
      objective to incorporate water into the formal deliberations under the UNFCCC, and the
      Alliance for Global Water Adaptation (AGWA), which focuses on adaptation practices. As a
      result of CONAGUA’s continuous engagement and follow-up efforts, water was incorporated
      into the UNFCCC’s Nairobi Work Programme, In addition, Mexico hosted the first UNFCCC
      meeting on water and climate change in July 2012, for which the UNFCCC Secretariat
      prepared an official technical paper on the issue (UNFCCC, 2011). CONAGUA’s continuous
      engagement in the global climate change dialogue has helped raise the importance being
      given to water issues in the climate change adaptation agenda.



11
     The activities will receive support under the spin-off operation (Loan No. 8165-MX).


                                                     14
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
49.      An important value-added of this operation was to provide the opportunity for continuous
policy dialogue, both among various public and non-public stakeholders within Mexico’s water
community as well as with the Bank, to underscore the importance of the actions being taken, to
bring special attention to the M&E of sector activities with an IWRM focus, and to help ensure
their continuous political and institutional support.
50.      Mexico has emerged as a regional leader in CCA issues. Other Central American
countries are benefiting from Mexico’s stronger capacity to adapt to climate change in the water
sector, including better monitoring, modeling, and understanding the hazards, levels of exposure,
vulnerabilities, risks and how to manage them.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
51.     Strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring in IWRM – Moderate
risk. The progress being achieved toward developing an integrated, multi-sector, decentralized
and participatory institutional framework for the sustainable management of water resources is
inserted within the GOM’s medium- and long-term sector strategy. Sub-national- and basin-
centered water entities are playing an increasingly important role in the definition of water
programs and their implementation. In addition, the spin-off IBRD operation focusing on the
modernization of the National Meteorological Service will ensure the continuous strengthening of
monitoring systems for both enhanced IWRM and Climate Adaptation in the water sector.
52.    However, as pointed out by recent water sector studies, there are still long-standing
reform issues that need to be tackled, including enhancing CONAGUA’s regulatory and
enforcement functions, as well as ensuring that the entire set of financial incentives and subsidies
under federal programs, including water pricing in general, is fully conducive to the rational and
efficient use of water resources. 12 The budgetary cycle also makes it difficult to invest in multi-
year activities; hence, it is a major impediment to longer term planning. Financial sustainability
also remains a challenge, including ensuring the allocation of sufficient budgetary resources to
CONAGUA. Finally, deeply engrained cultural issues related to water rights and energy subsidies
pose structural threats to water management and conservation, which have been identified as
areas in need of reform under the overall cooperation strategy between the Bank and the GoM.
53.      Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Program – Negligible to
low risk. Achievements toward mainstreaming adaptation in sector policies, including water, is
just one more step in the longstanding path that Mexico has taken to responsibly address climate
change issues, dating back to the mid-1990s. For future steps, the GoM has adopted the phased
approach proposed under the Adaptation Policy Framework to Climate Change (UNDP 2005).
This phased approach is reflected in the PECC, which establishes three main stages in the
development and implementation of the Adaptation Program. The first stage (2008–2012)
includes an evaluation of the country’s vulnerability and an economic assessment of the priority
measures. The development of the first comprehensive national adaptation proposal is in line with
the objectives of this operation. The second stage (2013–2030) comprises the strengthening of
national, regional, and sector adaptation strategic capabilities. The policies supported under this



12
     See, for example, World Bank (2013), Agua urbana en el Valle de México:Un camino verde para
       mañana?, March 2013, Washington, D.C.


                                                15
Adaptation to Climate Change DPL in the water sector coincide with various objectives of the
second stage, such as strengthening and reformulating public adaptation policies related to
sustainability and introducing sustainability criteria in water sector programs. The third stage
(2031–2050) will consolidate the acquired capabilities in each sector. The newly enacted Law on
Climate Change will help ensure the sustainability of this strategy over the medium and long
terms.
54.      Mainstreaming Water Issues in the Global Climate Change Agenda - Moderate risk.
As mentioned earlier, as a result of CONAGUA’s active participation in global climate change
forums, water was included under the Nairobi Works Programme. While this is a significant
achievement, continuous efforts will be needed to insure that this opportunity comes to full
fruition and water issues become a permanent focal point in the climate change agenda.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
    Rating: Satisfactory
55.      The performance of the Bank in assisting the Borrower to identify, prepare and appraise
the operation is deemed satisfactory. The Bank team effectively built upon the experience gained
by the GoM through implementation of the water sector program as well as exemplary climate
change programs and activities, including a comprehensive National Climate Change Strategy
and the related PECC. In addition, the team did a thorough review of relevant lessons learned in
other operations, both in Mexico and elsewhere as well as August 2009 Development Policy
Lending Retrospective. These lessons served to inform the operation’s design and ensure its
successful implementation. The operation’s design benefited from Mexican as well as
international experience. The operation supported the ambitious goals for adaptation to climate
change in the water sector that had been set forth In the PND, PNH, PNI and PECC. The Bank
team responsible for preparation was highly dedicated and benefited from an intimate knowledge
of the country’s water sector and its priorities. It worked closely with SEMARNAT and
CONAGUA to identify a set of key steps needed to further strengthen IWRM and mainstream the
adaptation to climate change into the water sector.
(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Satisfactory
56.      The project was well supervised, with regular field missions and supervision reports
focusing not just on the implementation of the DPL but also the TAP. Sector and CMU managers
followed project implementation closely. A wide array of sector specialists was included in the
supervision missions, contributing valuable expertise and technical assistance. The longstanding
relationship between the Bank team and the Borrower was an added benefit.
57.      The TAP provided substantial value added to the operation in areas that presented
opportunities for high pay-offs. It also provided additional incentives for the participating
administrative units within CONAGUA to be more closely involved in the operation. It is worth
noting that the funding for the TAP (roughly US$1 million) was not automatically assigned but
was the result of significant efforts on the part of the team to identify sources of funding—mainly
IBRD-administered trust funds—that required additional supervision.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
58.      Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered satisfactory. The Bank team provided
external validation, strong and consistent supervision, adequate financial resources, strong
management support as well as a valuable mix of technical skills and assistance to support the




                                                16
GOM’s own agenda. The Bank’s involvement provided added international exposure to
CONAGUA in the global climate change dialogue.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
59.      As mentioned earlier, the actions supported under this operation were part of the GOM’s
own agenda with respect to both climate change adaptation and the water sector. Thus, the
operation had a remarkable level of support. In addition to the political support, Mexico has the
institutional and technical tools characteristic of a sophisticated middle-income country, which
makes it a highly effective partner.
 (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
60.      Inter-sector coordination was an important determinant of the operation’s success.
SEMARNAT played a key leadership role as the ministry responsible for overseeing the PECC’s
implementation and for preparing Mexico’s Communications to UNFCCC, which, in turn,
defined the climate change adaptation agenda. It also provided effective coordination of the
activities carried out by CONAGUA and CONAFOR, which, although under SEMARNAT’s
overall policy direction, enjoy a significant level of autonomy. CONAGUA, as well as its
administrative units, also fulfilled their responsibilities under the operation, even though they
often represented an added responsibility to their routine activities. The same applies to
CONAFOR.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
61. Overall, the Borrowers’ performance is deemed satisfactory for the reasons stated above.

6. Lessons Learned
 (a) Lessons of wide general application
62.      The operation’s policy content and prior actions should reflect the Borrower’s own
program and priorities developed with the benefit of a national policymaking process that
involves broad public consultation. The Borrower’s ownership and stakeholder support for the
program were critical to its successful implementation. This DPL was fully inserted within
Mexico’s PECC, which in turn, supports key components of the PND, which was widely
consulted in accordance with participatory processes mandated by Mexican law. At the sector
level, the DPL was inserted within the PNH, which defines the water policy framework for
Mexico and provided the framework for this operation’s policy content.
63.      Sustained engagement on the part of the Bank is critical to effectively support
reform processes over the medium and long term. The Bank program of climate change in
Mexico constitutes an outstanding example of engagement with a sophisticated middle-income
country in which the Bank has deployed the full range of available instruments, including
investment lending, Development Policy Loans as well as CTF concessional financing, GEF and
other grants. The Bank’s support program has also included credit enhancement, hedging swaps,
catastrophe risk management and advisory services to support the evolution of the government’s
climate program through the years in a consistent manner. A similar long-term approach has been
taken in the water sector, relying on a range of Bank instruments to build synergy and deliver
knowledge services combined with lending services. In this context, the Bank’s added value to
this DPL should be considered as one additional step in the extensive collaborative lending and
non-lending engagement with the government on water sector and climate change issues.




                                               17
64.      Prior actions should be limited to a few key policy and institutional reforms. Without
such a focus, implementation by the Borrower and supervision by the Bank risk losing sight of
the operation’s priorities. This operation had seven prior actions distributed between the two
main policy areas. These actions proved to be essential and sufficient to achieving the program’s
outcomes.
65.      The operation’s outcomes should also reflect the Borrower’s program objectives
and monitoring capacity and, like the prior actions, should be limited to a few key,
measurable indicators. The operation’s outcomes that were included in the Policy Matrix
represented the government’s own objectives, as specified in the PNH, the PEEC, and the Fourth
Communication to the UNFCCC. As such, they were part of the system of indicators that the
Borrower had already identified as part of the planning instruments developed for the sexenio.
This had several advantages, including having predefined operational definitions, baselines, and
targets for each of the indicators, as well as a regular and predetermined frequency of
measurements. This approach also avoids creating additional M&E burden on the Borrower and
reinforces ownership. These advantages greatly overshadow the potential downsize of having a
more limited choice of indicators.
66.      The strategy of focusing primarily on achieving a paradigm shift within the flagship
water agency proved highly effective to mainstream climate change adaptation into the
water sector. At the operational level, the operation focused largely on adaptation activities that
were already a part of CONAGUA’s routine operations but had not been explicitly identified as
such. This approach had several advantages, including minimizing institutional resistance and
ensuring their automatic mainstreaming. Together with mandatory training for all technical staff,
this approach proved very effective in helping incorporate adaptation issues into CONAGUA’s
institutional mindset.

(a) Project-specific lessons
67.      The COP 16 forum provided a strong motivation for CONAGUA to enhance its
engagement in climate change activities. The operation capitalized on this unique window of
opportunity that had heightened CONAGUA’s interest on climate change, providing a conducive
environment for the mainstreaming of climate change adaptation into the agency’s regular
programs and operations.
68.      The COP 16 also proved to be a strategic venue for advancing the importance given
to water issues within the climate change global agenda. With the added validation of Bank
support, CONAGUA was effective in bringing water issues into the spotlight during the COP 16
and creating momentum to strengthen cooperation with the water community in the region and to
increase the importance being given to water by the global climate change community.
69.      The institutional weaknesses that limit CONAGUA’s effectiveness in managing
water resources also limit its effectiveness in managing the climate change adaptation
agenda. This is clearly illustrated by the protracted legal review procedures, which limit the
impact of its regulatory functions. Other institutional limitations include weak enforcement as
well as some subsidies and a pricing structure for water that act as a disincentive for both
effective and rational use of water resources and the implementation adaptation practices.
70.      The TAP proved very valuable not just because of its intrinsic value but also the
additional incentives it brought to CONAGUA’s administrative units. These incentives were
particularly importance given the non-additionality of IBRD financing in Mexico, as participating
agencies do not receive any additional financial resources.
71.      The Bank should reassess the funding policies regarding TAPs attached to DPLs. In
the past, when the TAPs were approved, financial resources were also secured. This TAP had no
resources attached to it and that created considerable pressures on the team to find funding


                                                18
sources. In middle-income countries this is a tremendous challenge, as most Donors do not
consider them priority countries in their respective development aid.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
See Annex 4.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                           19
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                                 Responsibility/
           Names                               Title                    Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
                                            Lending
       Gustavo Saltiel                    Sector Leader                LCSSD Task Team Leader
                                                                               Co-Task Team
   Alessandra Campanaro         Infrastructure Finance Specialist      LCSUW
                                                                                    Leader
   Diego Juan Rodríguez               Senior Economist                 ETWWA     Economist
      Todd Crawford                       Consultant                   LCSSD   Senior Advisor
   Caroline Van den Berg      Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist     ETWWA Water and Sanitation
                                                                              Water Resources
        Javier Zuleta         Sr. Water Resources Mgmt. Specialist     LCSEN
                                                                                    Mgmt.
  Rodrigo Serrano- Berthet      Sr. Social Development Specialist      LCSSO Social Development
  Ricardo Hernández Murillo        Sr. Environmental Specialist        LCSEN    Environment
       Gisela Campillo              Junior Professional Officer        LCC1A Water and Sanitation
   Yerania Sánchez Ramos          Junior Professional Associate        LCSSD Water and Sanitation
     Edith Cortés ?ngeles                   Consultant                 LCSPE     Economist
    Ann Jeanette Glauber           Sr. Environmental Specialist        LCSEN    Environment
       Jozef Draaisma                 Sr. Country Economist            LCSPE     Economist
                                                                                  Financial
       Xiomara Morel           Sr Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM
                                                                                Management
       Daniel Nolasco                        Consultant                LCSSD Water and Sanitation
          Luis Poggi                         Consultant                LCSSD Water and Sanitation
    Karina Kashiwamoto             Language Program Assistant          LCC1C   Team Assistant
    David Lopez Viggiano                     Temporary                 LCC1C   Team Assistant
       Mariana Montiel                     Senior Counsel              LEGLA  Legal Specialist
        Ana F. Daza                Language Program Assistant          LCSUW   Team Assistant
     Gloria M. Grandolini                 Country Director             LCC1C   Senior Advisor
         Laura Tuck                        Sector Director             LCSSD   Senior Advisor
      Guang Zhe Chen                      Sector Manager               LCSUW   Senior Advisor
                                            Supervision
   Alessandra Campanaro        Sr. Infrastructure Finance Specialist   LCSDU    Task Team Leader
                                                                                 Water Resources
        Javier Zuleta         Sr. Water Resources Mgmt. Specialist     LCSEN
                                                                                       Mgmt.
      Rodrigo Serrano           Sr. Social Development Specialist      LCSSO    Social Development
    Alexandra Panman              Junior Professional Associate        LCSDU     Urban and Water
   Diego Juan Rodríguez                  Senior Economist              TWIWA        Economist
   Graciela Reyes Retana          Junior Professional Associate        LCSEN       Environment
                                         ICR Preparation
       Cecilia Zanetta                       Consultant                LCSDU     Primary Author
   Alessandra Campanaro        Sr. Infrastructure Finance Specialist   LCSDU   Task Team Leader
                                                                                Water Resources
        Javier Zuleta         Sr. Water Resources Mgmt. Specialist     LCSEN
                                                                                      Mgmt.
   Diego Juan Rodríguez                 Senior Economist               TWIWA       Economist
       Enrique Aguilar                     Consultant                  LCSDU   Water and Sanitation
  Hector Alexander Serrano        Junior Professional Associate        LCSEN   Water and Sanitation
    Blanca Lopez Alascio                   Consultant                  LCSWS   Water and Sanitation
    Diana Jimenez Cruz                   Team Assistant                LCC1C     Team Assistant




                                                20
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost
                                                   (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage
                                                                      USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                            (incl. travel and consultant costs)
             Lending
              FY10
                          Total:            65.58                          326.87
Supervision/ICR
              FY11                           7.30                            53.99
              FY12                          12.28                           107.02
              FY13                           4.65                            28.60
                          Total:            24.23                          189.61




                                       21
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                      22
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                    23
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Includes original letter in Spanish and translation to English




                                  24
25
                              2013, Year of Institutional Loyalty and
                                 Centennial of the Mexican Army

CONAGUA
   SEMARNAT
[National Water Commission]                              [Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources]

General Planning Sub-directorate
International Cooperation Management

Letter No. B00.060.01-0206
Mexico City, June 24, 2013

Alessandra Campanaro
Project Manager and Specialist in
Financial Infrastructure
World Bank
1818 H St. NW
Washington, DC 20433, USA

I refer to the framework for adaptation to climate change in the sector development policy loan
(DPL), that was financed by the World Bank in the amount of US$450 million through loan
7945-MX, and specifically to the Information Completion and Results Report (ICR) prepared by
the Bank on the program’s results.

In this regard, as you know, the purpose of this operation was to support the government’s efforts
to advance in its strategy to pursue sustainable development in the water sector, strengthening the
operations of the institution in this area, building closer institutional ties between CONAGUA-
INECC-SEMARNAT, and reinforcing the key role of water in adaptation to climate change.

Implementation of the DPL has had positive effects on other areas of the institution, directly
influencing the concept and development of other projects with the World Bank, such as the
Program for Modernization of the National Meteorological Service for Better Adaptation to
Climate Change (MoMet); and a consultancy on the Water Financial System (SFA), which led to
the first agreement in CONAGUA on the definition and scope of the SFA. Another relevant result
has been the development of the Forests and Climate Change Project that the World Bank
negotiated with CONAFOR and led among other things to CONAFOR’s participation in the DPL
in the area of forest restoration to protect micro-basins.

It is important to note that SEMARNAT’s participation involved climate change policy with
respect to adaptation in the water sector, specifically the Special Program for Climate Change and
the Fourth Communication to the UNFCC, which assigned equal priority to mitigation and


                                                26
adaptation strategies. It identified a series of norms and programs that incorporated elements of
adaptation to climate change, including improvements in efficiency and integrated management
of the resource. In addition, since 2009 CONAGUA has had incentives in its federal programs
based on concepts of water recycling (conservation) and has given priority to geographical areas
with a high level of social marginalization.

The program was monitored with a policy matrix that reflected the objectives and goals of the
National Water Program (PNH) and the Special Program on Climate Change (PECC), and was
the tool for tracking the progress of the policies supported by this operation. An analysis of the
compliance with the goals and indicators shows a high level of meeting the goals, averaging
generally over 90% (see attached table), so overall CONAGUA is satisfied with the results of the
DPL.

Nevertheless, I should like to indicate three aspects that we feel should be taken into account in
future work with that international financial organ:
    1. Evaluate with the Secretariat for Treasury and Public Credit (SHCP) the possibility of
        considering additional resources linked to external credits.

    2. Disseminate the results of these operations so that tangible products are publicized.

    3. Propose new financial instruments that are more attractive to the executors.


Yours truly,
[signature]
LRI, Claudia Esther Coria-Bustos Pérez
Manager of International Cooperation




Cc: Ing. Emiliano Rodríguez Briceño, General Deputy Director of Planning
   Lic. Griselda Medina Laguna, Deputy Manger for Procurement and Evaluation of External
Loan Projects

CECPB/GML/NASR


                                                27
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                    28
Annex 6 – Stages of Climate Change Engagement in Mexico
by type of services provided

                                  
                                                    Stages of Climate Change Engagement in Mexico

                                           Foundations                  Early Support                 Strengthening                      Consolidation
                                          (Before 1999)                  (1999–2007)                   (2007–2009]                         (2010–)

                                       Solid Waste Management     Renewable Energy for           Mexico: Waste               Adaptation to Climate Change
                                       Pilot Project (P007628)     Agriculture Project             Management and Carbon        Impacts in the Coastal Wetlands in
                                      Urban Transport Project     (P060718)                       Offset Project (P088546)     the Gulf of Mexico (P100438)
                                       (P007615)                  Introduction to Climate-       Climate Change DPL          Urban Transport Transformation
 Financial Services




                                      Community Forestry          friendly Measures in            (P110849)                    Program (P107159)
                                       (P007700)                   Transport (P059161)            Environmental               Green Growth DPL (P115608)
                                                                  Programmatic Environment        Sustainability DPL          Adaptation to CC in the Water
                                                                   DPLs I and II (P079748)         (P095510)                    Sector DPL (P120134)
                                                                                                  Sustainable Rural           Low-carbon DPL (P121800)
                                                                                                   Development (P108766)       Strengthening Social Resilience to
                                                                                                  First Multi-peril CAT        CC DPL (FY12)
                                                                                                   bond                        Forest and Climate change SIL, and
                                                                                                                                Forest Investment Program (FY12)
                                                                                                                               Modernization of National
                                                                                                                                Meteorological Service SIL (FY12)
                                                                  LAC Region Landfill Gas        Carbon Finance              Social Impacts of Climate Change
                                                                   Initiative (P104757)            Assistance Program for       (P112024)
         Knowledge Services




                                                                  Evaluation of Energy            Mexico (P104731)            MoU Subnational CC (P105849)
                                                                   Efficiency Initiatives         Low-carbon Study            Othon P. Blanco Sustainable
                                                                   (P099734)                       (MEDEC) (P108304)            Development Strategy (P122021)
                                                                  Economic Assessment of         Mass Urban Transport-       SEP Adaptation of the Water Sector
                                                                   Policy Interventions in the     Federal Program              to CC
                                                                   Water Sector (P096999)          (P110474)                   CC Public Expenditure Review
                                                                                                                                (FY12)
                                                                                                                               Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
                                                                                                                                (FY11-13)
                                                                  Consolidation &                Preparation of the CTF      Water sector events in the lead-up to
            Convening Services




                                                                   Strengthening of the            Investment Plan              COP16
                                                                   Mexican Office for                                          Energy-efficiency conference
                                                                   Greenhouse Gas Mitigation                                   High-level facilitation activities
                                                                   (P060412)                                                    related to COP16
                                                                                                                               Agriculture and forestry sector
                                                                                                                                events during COP16
                                                                                                                               South-south collaboration on
                                                                                                                                forestry during COP17




                                                                                                 29
Annex 7 - Main Policy Actions Taken and Corresponding Outcomes
                Policy Area 1. Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM)
PDO 1 - Strengthening the IWRM Institutional Framework and Monitoring Capacity
Policy Framework
 Mexico has critical and urgent water-related problems including the overexploitation and
    pollution of surface and groundwater. More than 50 percent of the groundwater used in the
    country comes from overexploited aquifers, affecting primarily domestic and industrial use.
    The current situation is not sustainable in the medium and long term, and will be clearly
    exacerbated by the effects of climate change. If not addressed soon, this issue will become
    an obstacle to continued economic development and will have serious negative impacts on
    efforts to reduce poverty (PEEC, 2009).
 Mexico’s PNH and the PECC specify the objectives, strategies, policies and goals to recover
    basins, tributaries and groundwater to address the impacts of climate change in a manner
    consistent with the strategies and policy guidelines dealing with sustainable development and
    conservation of water resources contained in the 2007-2012 PND. Their aim is also to
    modernize water uses and reduce pressure on water resources in the near term, as well as
    take a long-term conservation perspective.
 With its broad integrated framework linking water resources with water use (i.e., water supply
    and sanitation, irrigation and drainage, energy and the environment), IWRM is considered a
    best practice in the water sector for attaining sustainable outcomes. The IRRM also offers a
    sound framework for building the resilience needed to adapt to climate change. The main
    guiding principles underlying IWRM include: i) a coordinated institutional arrangement that
    includes federal, state and municipal entities; ii) the participation of communities, users and
    the private sector in decision-making and in the implementation of programs and projects;
    and iii) the decentralization of decision-making and management responsibilities to basin-
    centered institutions.
 In this context, this DPL supported the strengthening the IWRM Institutional Framework and
    Monitoring Capacity, focusing on the following dimensions:
         a. GOM’s commitment to CCA in the water sector;
         b. Monitoring capacity for measuring the impact of climate change on the water cycle;
         c. Planning and management of water resources at the basin level; and
         d. Regulatory and administrative capacity of water resources, including transfer of water
             rights.
a. GOM’s commitment to climate change adaptation in the water sector
Major Actions Taken
 Submission of the Fourth Communication to the UNFCCC: The Communication underlined
    the importance of adaptation in water resources at the national and local levels in order to
    reduce vulnerability in all areas of people’s lives, including economic activities and natural
    resources. The Communication also underscored the GOM’s commitment to continue
    strengthening the technical capacity to analyze and manage meteorological information;
    develop new tools for decision-making under uncertainty; and promote the participation of
    civil society in the development and evaluation of strategies and programs for the sector.
 Submission of the Fifth Communication to the UNFCCC. It was presented at the 67th General
    Assembly of the United Nations on September 26, 2012. Mexico is the only Non-Annex I
    country to have submitted five national communications. This Communication presented the
    new institutional framework for climate change and mitigation as defined under the newly
    enacted Climate Change Law. Reflecting the country’s growing maturity in CCA issues, the
    Communication presented the country’s strategic approach toward adaptation to climate
    change, focusing on risk and vulnerability management, as well as the need for enhanced
    climate and hydrological monitoring systems.
Main Outcomes
 Mexico’s stated commitment to foster climate change adaptation in general and in the water
    sector in particular is corroborated by the substantial progress being made toward the
    development of a national CCA strategy, including building the underlying legal and


                                                30
    institutional frameworks. Some of the most recent achievements include:
     The 2007-2012 PNH was the first one to have a specific objective related to climate
         change.
     The federal government produced its National Climate Change Strategy (CCS) in 2007,
         followed by the PECC in 2009. The PECC includes 105 objectives and 294 targets that
         are directly aligned with both the objectives of the 2007-2012 PND as well as the CCS.
         Of these, 50 targets are directly related to water, mainly in the context of adaptation.
     In June 2012 Mexico enacted a new General Climate Change Law that provides a
         unifying legal framework for the country’s climate change policy. It establishes the
         competencies of the various levels of government and establishes several new bodies at
         the federal level, including the National Institute of Ecology and Climate Change
         (INECC). These newly formed bodies will have the task of developing an integrated
         mitigation and adaptation national policy, developing an information system of climate
         change indicators, and elaborating the national inventory of GHG emissions. To achieve
         these objectives they will collaborate directly with the various line ministries, including
         SEMARNAT. The law also establishes a Climate Change Fund with the objective of
         raising funds from public and private entities for the implementation of adaptation plans.
     In November 2012, SEMARNAT and INECC presented a CCA Strategic Framework
         (Adaptación al Cambio Climático en México: Visión, elementos y criterios para la toma de
         decisions) that establishes the criteria to identify, articulate and direct policy instruments
         to strengthen adaption capacity of ecosystems, production systems and society in
         general. The development of this strategic framework, which was one of the goals of the
         2009-2012 PECC, lays the foundation for development of the adaptation component of
         the next National Strategy for Climate Change to be developed in 2013.
b. Strengthening of monitoring capacity
Key Actions Taken
 CONAGUA has increased the number of water quality monitoring sites from 400 to 5,000
   between 2007 and 2012, amply exceeding the 1,500 target. The implementation of this
   expanded water quality monitoring system represents a substantial achievement, as the
   improvement with respect to the previous system is not only in terms of number of sites, but
   also their location, as well as the frequency and the parameters being monitored. The rapid
   expansion of the system, which was implemented over the past year, was achieved utilizing a
   tertiarization scheme.
 CONAGUA increased the number of operational piezometer gauges from 220 to 370
   between 2012, in line with the original target. These gauges provide measurements of static
   pressures for underground water and report data in real time. CONAGUA plans to triplicate
   the number of piezometer gauges by 2018.
 In line with the original target, CONAGUA continues to support a network of 3,700
   hydrometric and climatologic stations, of which 900 report data on a daily basis. Of these,
   2,100 are directly operated by CONAGUA and 1,600 are operated by third parties that have
   subscribed institutional agreements with CONAGUA.
 CONAGUA has conducted a total of 30,264 radio sounding measurements between 2007
   and 2012. This represents roughly 54 percent the original target of 56.347 measurements,
   which was not achieved due to lack of budgetary resources between 2007 and 2010 and
   cumbersome procurement and distribution procedures for the needed supplies. These
   problems have now been overcome.
Main Outcomes
 An expanded, more robust monitoring system for measuring the impact of climate change in
   the water cycle is now in place. This, in turn, is a pre-condition for the effective incorporation
   of climate change adaptation into IWRM planning efforts. Strengthened monitoring capacity
   will render more complete, accurate, and timely data on climate and water resources to be
   used in the development of a sound technical knowledge base on the impacts of climate
   change on water. Such knowledge base will help develop tools—such as the Climate change
   Water Vulnerability Atlas—to better foresee and interpret more precisely the future impacts of



                                                  31
    climate change on the components of the water cycle as well as outline the actions to be
    carried out to cope with these changes.
 A US$105 million IBRD operation (i.e., the Modernization of the National Meteorological
    Service for Improved Climate Adaptation; approved in May 2012) continues to support the
    strengthening of the observation network for water and climate variables that play a role in
    climate change adaptation. The importance given by the GoM to this operation and its
    objectives is underscored by a US$70 million contribution in counterpart funds.
c. Planning and management of water resources at the basin level
Key Actions Taken
 CONAGUA has transferred some of its functions and responsibilities to river basin
   organizations (RBOs, organismos de cuenca). The RBOs are conceived as specialized units
   of CONAGUA with technical and administrative autonomy to exercise the functions assigned
   to them by law. They are responsible for formulating regional policy, designing programs to
   implement those policies, conducting studies to estimate the value of the resources
   generated within their boundaries (water user fees), recommending specific rates for water
   user fees as a result of those studies, and finally, operating the necessary mechanisms for
   collecting water user fees.
 Water resources management plans have been developed in a participatory manner in each
   of the hydrological administrative regions. The RBOs are responsible for their implementation
   under the 2013 budget. They are consistent with planning instruments for the water sector
   developed at the federal level.
 River basin councils (RBCs) represent key stakeholders in the sector, including the state and
   municipal levels, water users, civil society and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The
   RBCs serve mainly as advisory councils, giving their members a voice on key issues. They
   can also help to resolve conflicts by developing consensus among various parties involved
   and recommending actions to CONAGUA. There are a total of 26 functioning RBCs. They
   meet at least once a year and, among their other functions, they are overseeing the
   implementation of projects and programs under the water resources management plans.
   Fostering the more active participation of RBCs is still a challenge. While the degree of
   participation varies from one council to another, they are yet not fully playing the role that has
   been envisioned, particularly in terms of conflict resolution among users. As RBCs continue
   to consolidate, it is expected that they will play a more active role in the definition of the plans
   and their implementation.
 CONAGUA has developed an additional 19 aquifer management plans (i.e., slightly over the
   18 that were originally envisioned). These plans, which are developed with the participation of
   users and other stakeholders, focus primarily on aquifers that are being overexploited or
   those that are approaching that stage. The challenge still ahead pertains to their successful
   implementation.
 Participation of women, youth, the elderly and indigenous people has increased through their
   inclusion in the Mexican Committee for Sustainable Use of Water since 2009.
Main outcomes
 Consistent with the IWRM approach, basin-centered entities—i.e., RBOs and RBCs—are
   playing an increasing role in the sector. The RBOs and RBCs also helped operationalize
   other IWRM guiding principles, including furthering coordination among different levels of
   government, the participation of communities, users and the private sector in decision-making
   and in the implementation of programs and projects. While the functioning of basin center
   institutions, RBCs in particular, have not yet achieved their full potential, they are all now
   operational and are gradually being empowered.
 Water resources management plans at the basin level are being developed in an integrated,
   multi-sector, participatory manner. Developed jointly by the Mexican Institute of Water
   Technology (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnología del Agua – IMTA) and the local RBOs, they
   are fully consistent with planning instruments developed for each sexenio at the federal level,
   including the PND and the PNH, as well as the country’s long-term development vision (i.e.,
   Mexico 2030 – Proyecto de Gran Visión).



                                                  32
d. Regulatory and administrative capacity of water resources
Key Actions Taken
 A total of 13 water banks and twenty support offices have been established in order to foster
   the sustainable management and efficient administration of water resources, the transfer of
   water rights in particular. Their functions include: to provide guidance on the technical and
   hydrological characteristics of the region under their responsibility; provide consultancy
   regarding the regulations applicable for the process of transmission of water rights; manage
   the transfer process from start to finish; and publish and disseminate announcements for
   the transmission or acquisition of water rights.
 Water availability has been published for 627 river basins, increasing the number from 91 to
   722 river basins.
 New regulations have been formulated on the use of water in priority basins and aquifers.
   However, the legal aspects are still under review. Multiple layers of legal review at
   CONAGUA, SEMARNAT and the Presidency levels and the lack of clear and consistent
   criteria has proved to be a serious bottleneck in the issuing of new regulation.
Main Outcomes
 CONAGUA has strengthened the institutional framework for the transparent and effective
   transfer of water rights. Water banks are now operational in the country’s entire territory. By
   providing users upfront advice on the technical, legal, and administrative feasibility of
   transferring specific water rights, water banks are enhancing the overall transparency of the
   transfer of water rights, facilitating the process for users and, presumably, fostering rational
   decision making on their part. Their effectiveness is denoted by the high levels of satisfaction
   reported by users.13 There is no indication, however, that processing times have improved
   significantly, as parts of the administrative process of water rights transfer is outside the orbit
   of the water banks.
 A new online platform has been developed under the water banks to develop a virtual market
   for water rights, which has the potential to increase the transparency in the demand and
   supply of water rights and enhance the efficiency of the water rights market by addressing
   information imperfections. While the number of users has been increasing gradually since its
   inception, it has not yet achieved the social acceptance required to have a significant impact.
 The publication of water availability for river basins has a significant impact on water
   management, as it is a key input in enhancing the administration of water resources,
   including decision on whether to grant new concessions as well as the need to impose tighter
   regulations.
 On the regulatory side, cumbersome and slow legal review procedures hamper CONAGUA’s
   regulatory functions. This is a particularly serious in the context of priority basins and aquifers
   that are already highly vulnerable and susceptible to the overuse that continues to take place
   during the protracted review period. This is one of the reasons leading to the preparation of a
   new water law, which is currently being formulated.
      Policy Area 2. Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Programs
PDO 2 - Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Programs
Policy Framework
 Building upon the PNH’s new focus on climate change in the water sector (i.e., Objective No.
    7), the operation’s second policy area focused on the development and adoption of a water
    sector normative framework and financial mechanisms supporting adaptation to climate
    change activities in water resource management; agricultural water management; sustainable
    use and conservation of water, including waste water treatment and reuse; and efficiency
    improvements for water utilities.


13
   Customers report over 99 percent satisfaction in the surveys that were conducted among 5,000 users in
2011, with 86.43% percent characterizing the services provided by the water banks as excellent and 12.2
percent as “good? (CONAGUA’s Compendio Estadístico de Administración del Agua 2012, p. 26).


                                                  33
   At the policy level, the operation supported GOM’s efforts to strengthen existing federal
    programs and norms by incorporating a set of financial incentives that explicitly address
    adaptation in the design and implementation of those programs and norms. The objective
    was to mainstream adaptation to climate change by focusing on reforming financing
    mechanisms and the normative and regulatory frameworks in the water sector, with a specific
    focus on:
    a. Aquifer recharge;
    b. Climate change adaptation practices in treatment plants;
    c. Forest restoration; and
    d. Irrigation efficiency.
a. Aquifer recharge
Major Actions Taken
 CONAGUA issued two norms to provide regulatory instruments to promote the conservation
   of groundwater resources. Specifically:
    Norm No. 014 regulates requirements for the recharge of aquifers with treated water
        including required water quality, operation and monitoring of the recharge systems.
    Norm 015 regulates artificial recharge from rainwater and drainage in projects with a flow
        of at least 60 liters/second and includes the technical requirements to execute these
        activities.
 CONAGUA now publishes water availability for all the aquifers in the country. Between 1997
   and 2012, CONAGUA more than tripled the number of aquifers with published information on
   water availability, from 202 to 653 aquifers.
 A pilot program is being implemented to promote the utilization of treated water in irrigation.
Main Outcomes
 The protection of groundwater resources is one of the main “no regrets? activities that can be
   undertaken. The conservation of aquifers provides an intergenerational mechanism to ensure
   the sustainability of resources. Artificial recharge serves different purposes, including to
   mitigate the effects of overexploitation (such as lower water levels and saline intrusion), as a
   natural treatment in the subsoil, and to manage aquifers as storage areas and natural
   aqueducts.
 The publication of water availability of aquifers has a significant impact on water
   management, as it is a key input in the decision to grant new concessions as well as the
   need to impose tighter regulations on individual aquifers.
 Although the program’s implementation proved more time-consuming that anticipated due to
   the need to subscribe legal agreements with users who agree not to use first-quality water for
   irrigation, the concept has been successfully tested. There are now 7,807 hectares being
   irrigated only with treated water, exceeding the original goal of 5,000 hectares.
b. CCA-conducive financial incentives for treatment plants
Major Actions Taken
 CONAGUA has incorporated in its Wastewater Treatment Program (Programa de
    Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales - PROTAR) criteria promoting the recharge of aquifers and
    water reuse for the conservation of groundwater resources. The program, which provides
    funding to water providers for the expansion, construction or rehabilitation of treatment plans,
    provides financial incentives to those projects that favor climate change adaptation actions,
    such as the reuse of treated effluent—i.e., the higher the percentage of waste water reused,
    the higher the amount of funding. Operation and maintenance costs are partly funded through
    transfers based on volume of waste water treated to pre-defined quality standards.
Main Outcomes
 Under PROTAR, water utility companies are receiving funding from CONAGUA to increase
    and promote water reuse and aquifers recharge.
     PROTAR accounted for 8.1 percent of all CONAGUA’s investment programs in 2011.
     The volume of treated water increased from 38.3 to 47.5 percent of collected waste water
        between 2007 and 2012.
     The anticipated 60 percent target is expected to be achieved and exceeded in 2013 or


                                                34
        early 2014, once the various treatment plants that are currently in the pipeline are
        completed. One of them is the Atotonilco treatment plant, which is the largest in the
        country with a 23 m3/second planned capacity. While there have been delays in
        construction, it currently presents 54 percent of progress and is expected to be
        completed in 2013 or early 2014. This treatment plant will benefit from the financial
        incentives for operation and maintenance.
c. Forest restoration
Key Actions Taken
 CONAFOR has issued operating rules for the Special Program for the Conservation and
     Protection of Micro-Watersheds (SPRMPA) in priority areas to promote the reduction of soil
     erosion, reforestation, and forest protection. SPRMPA promotes soil conservation and
     reforestation activities in degraded areas as a means to mitigate the effects of climate
     change. The program has several notable elements, including an emphasis on the
     conservation of micro-watersheds that is critical for water resource management and an
     innovative payment mechanism to offset the opportunity costs associated with forgoing forest
     conversion.
Main Outcomes
 In its preliminary phase, the program focused on the Cutzamala watershed, an area that is
     politically, institutionally and socially complex and that includes parts of the states of Mexico,
     Michoacán and the Federal District. The program was later expanded to nine additional
     areas, demonstrating the importance and priority that the federal government has placed on
     this program.
 Degraded areas of micro-watersheds in priority areas and forest cover are being restored
     under the program. Specifically, the area of restored forests has increased significantly, from
     3,000 to 23,704 hectares between 2009 and 2012, amply exceeding the original target of
     13,000 hectares.
 Moreover, CONAFOR reports that the pilot experience financed under this operation had
     several institutional impacts. Including strengthening the importance given to water resources
     in the context of the program, and successfully testing the principle of integrated
     interventions, which was subsequently extended to other programs.
 A US$350 million IBRD operation (i.e., the Forests and Climate Change Project; approved in
     January 2013) continues to provide support to this action.
d. Irrigation
Key Actions Taken
 CONAGUA has strengthened the protection of overexploited aquifers by means of its
   programs to improve the water productivity of irrigation. The agricultural sector is the main
   user of water, consuming approximately 77 percent of water resources. As a result, effective
   water policy must include measures to reduce the demand for water in agriculture, improve
   the efficiency of irrigation systems, and increase the adoption of water-saving technologies.
 CONAGUA has three federal programs targeting the agricultural sector, one of which, the
   Program for Modernization and Technology Upgrade of Irrigation Units (PMTUR), is
   particularly relevant to this operation. The PMTUR’s main objective is to improve water
   productivity in irrigation systems by funding agricultural producers. In 2009, the operating
   rules incorporated new criteria prioritizing activities that improve the sustainability of the
   resource. The main additions are:
    Giving priority to those projects in which users give back to CONAGUA more than 20
        percent of their concession for water use;
    Projects to decrease the use of water from overexploited aquifers; and
    Projects that promote agricultural activities with low water consumption.
Main Outcomes
 Despite a decrease in 2011 in due to the freezing in the State of Sinaloa, the productivity of
   irrigation districts has increased from 1.41 to 1.86 kg per m3 between 2007 and 2012,
   compared to the original target of 1.66 kg per m³.



                                                  35
                   Table 1. Productivity of irrigation districts – 2007-2012
         Year            2007       2008      2009       2010       2011       2012
         Target PNH      1.45       1.49       1.54      1.58       1.62       1.66
         Actual          1.46       1.46       1.37      1.55       1.22       n.a.
       Source: CONAGUA (2012).
e. Other actions
Key Actions Taken
 CONAGUA is responsible for the implementation of 41 of the 50 water-related targets
   included under the 2009-2012 PECC, while the remaining nine are implemented jointly with
   other institutions.
 All CONAGUA technical staff is required to take training on climate change in the water
   sector, with a duration of eight hours and 30-question final evaluation. Up to now, 2,861
   members of CONAGUA technical staff have taken the course, which is a requirement of
   CONAGUA’s administrative service career.
Main Outcomes
 As of July 2012, CONAGUA was among the agencies with the highest achievement of PECC
   targets, with 88 percent for climate change targets as a whole and 98 percent for those
   focusing on adaptation.
 CCA is being given increasing importance in the context of water resources, as denoted by
   its prominence in recent CONAGUA’s publications, including a two-part series in Reportes
   Economicos in 2011 and an article in the Gaceta del Agua 2012,




                                              36
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

Canizales Pérez, R. (2011), “Efectos del cambio climático en la administración del agua en
    México,? CONAGUA’s Gaceta de Administración del Agua, Edición 2012, pp. 20-33,
    SEMARNAT, México, D.F.
COLMEX (2011). Agua para las Américas en el Siglo XX, El Colegio de México, Comisión
    Nacional Del Agua – CONAGUA, México, D.F.
Comisión Inter-sectorial de Cambio Climático (2009), Programa Especial de Cambio Climático
    2009-2012, Poder ejecutivo, México, D.F.
CONAGUA (2012), Compendio Estadístico de Administración del Agua 2012, México, D.F.
CONAGUA (2011), “Efectos del cambio climático en la administración del agua en México -
    Segunda Parte,? Reportes Económicos, No. 14, Subgerencia de Estudios Económicos de la
    CONAGUA, México, D.F.
CONAGUA (2011), “Efectos del cambio climático en la administración del agua en México -
    Primera Parte,? Reportes Económicos, No. 13, Subgerencia de Estudios Económicos de la
    CONAGUA, México, D.F.
Herron, C. (2013), Water and Climate Change in Mexico 2007-2012: Analysis and Future
    Recommendations, Manuscript, January 2012, Mexico City.
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales – SEMARNAT (2013), Reporte de
    cumplimiento del Programa Nacional Hídrico 2007-2012, Subdirección General de
    Planeación, April, 2013, México, D.F.
SEMARNAT (2012), México - Quinta comunicación nacional ante la Convención Marco de las
    Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio Climático. November 1, 2012; México, D.F. UNFCCC
    (2011), Water and climate change impacts and adaptation strategies, Technical Paper. Bonn.
World Bank (2009-2013), Documents in Project’s Electronic File, including Loan Agreement,
    Program Document, Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports; IRIS,
    Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2013), Agua urbana en el Valle de México:Un camino verde para mañana?, March
    2013, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2011), Mexico - Forests and Climate Change Project, Project Appraisal Document,
    Report No. 65959-MX, December 21, 2011, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2011), Mexico - Modernization of the National Meteorological Service for
    Improved Climate Adaptation Project, Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 67971-MX,
    April 18, 2010, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2010), Mexico - Framework for Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector
    Development Policy Loan, Program Document, Report No. 53637-MX, May 6, 2010,
    Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2008), Country Partnership Strategy for the United Mexican States for the Period
    FY2008–2013, Washington, D.C.




                                             37
Annex 9. Interviews Conducted during the ICR Mission

SEMARNAT
Juan Godinez Zuñiga, Subdirector de Crédito Externo
Roberto Cabral y Bowling, Director General Adjunto de Análisis de Políticas y Financiamiento
Estratégico
Luis Muñozcano ?lvarez, Director General Adjunto Para Proyectos De Cambio Climático
CONAGUA
Adán Carro de la Fuente, Desarrollo, Innovación Y Capacitación, Gerencia de Ingeniería y
Normas Técnicas
Noé Salazar Ramírez, Jefe de Proyecto de Concertación y Seguimiento del Crédito Externo,
Gerencia de Planificación Hídrica
Griselda Medina Laguna, Subgerente de Gestión y Evaluación de Proyectos con Crédito Externo,
Gerencia de Planificación Hídrica
Horacio Rubio, Gerente de Aguas Superficiales e Ingeniería de Ríos, Gerencia de Aguas
Superficiales e Ingeniería de Ríos
Rubén Chávez Guillén, Gerente de Aguas Subterráneas de la Subdirección General Técnica
Roberto Aurelio Sención Aceves, Subgerente de Evaluación y Ordenamiento de Acuíferos,
Gerencia de Aguas Subterráneas
Orlando Jaimes Martínez, Gerente Ingeniería y Normas Técnicas,
Suraya Padua Díaz, Gerente de Bancos del Agua, Subdirección General de Administración del
Agua
Benjamín Jiménez, Jefe de Proyecto, Bancos de Agua
José Alfredo Galindo, Gerencia de Consejos de Cuenca, Coordinación General de Consejos de
cuenca y atención a emergencias
Colin Herron, Diálogos por el agua y el Cambio Climático
Milton Henestrosa Zárate, Gerente de Programas Federales de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado,
Subdirección General de Agua Potable, Drenaje y Saneamiento
Enrique Mejía Maravilla, Gerente de Calidad del Agua
Martín Montero, Subgerente de Monitoreo Atmosférico Ambiental, Servicio Meteorológico
Nacional
CONAFOR
Josefina Braña, Directora de Cambio Climático y Promoción Comercial
Other agencies
Arnulfo Leyva, Consultor de Gestión Financiera, Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios
Financieros, S.N.C.
Diana Gabriela Asaf, Gerencia De Control Financiero Internacional, Banco del Ahorro Nacional y
Servicios Financieros, S.N.C.
World Bank
Alessandra Campanaro, Task Team Leader
Javier Zuleta, Sr. Water Resources Mgmt. Specialist
Diego Juan Rodriguez, Senior Economist
Enrique Aguilar, Consultant




                                             38
Annex 10. Maps




http://siga.cna.gob.mx/Mapoteca/Regiones%20Hidrologicas/MapaRegHidro.htm


                                      39
40
