                                                          CONFORMED COPY



                                                      LOAN NUMBER 7945-MX




                  Loan Agreement
(Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector Development Policy Loan)


                                 between


                      UNITED MEXICAN STATES


                                   and


          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                     AND DEVELOPMENT




                           Dated July 21, 2010
                                                                    LOAN NUMBER 7945-MX


                                    LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated July 21, 2010, entered into between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(“Borrower?), represented by Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, its Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit (SHCP) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.

Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth in the
table in Section II of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, and for the purposes of supporting the
Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

                ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
        to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and fifty million Dollars
        ($450,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
        Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
        (“Loan?).

2.02.   As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
        framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the Borrower may
        withdraw, or may cause BANSEFI to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Unless the Borrower’s representative
        designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement otherwise informs the Bank, the Borrower’s
        Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
        pursuant to this Section are the Director General of BANSEFI or the Director General
        Adjunto de Banca Institucional of BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such
        representative shall jointly or severally designate in writing.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
        (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
        LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
        Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
        by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
        accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
        unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
        interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
        (d) of the General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
                terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
                the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
                withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the
                interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the
                Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice
                versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
                establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable
                Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
                accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined in the
                General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
                Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

        (c)     Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the
                proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
                the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium
                payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the
                amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of
                Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower, through SEMARNAT and CONAGUA, declares its commitment to the
        Program and its results. To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General
        Conditions:



                                                2
        (a)     the Borrower, through SEMARNAT and CONAGUA, and the Bank shall from
                time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
                achieved in the implementation of the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through SEMARNAT and
                CONAGUA, shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
                progress achieved in the implementation of the Program, in such detail as the
                Bank shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Borrower shall or shall cause BANSEFI, to promptly inform the Bank of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program including any action specified in
                Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

3.02.   (a)     The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato)
                among SHCP, SEMARNAT, CONAGUA and BANSEFI, satisfactory to the
                Bank, whereby:

                (i)     BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to
                        the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, BANSEFI agrees to represent the
                        Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal
                        applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify
                        disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds in
                        compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and

                (ii)    the Borrower, through SHCP, SEMARNAT and CONAGUA, shall
                        cooperate fully with BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to
                        comply with all of BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of
                        this Section.

        (b)     Exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Contrato de Mandato in
                such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the
                purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
                shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In
                case of any conflict between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of
                this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

                       ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

        (a)     A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
                significant part of it, will be carried out.




                                                3
        (b)     The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the
                Bank, become inconsistent with the objective of the Program.

        (c)     An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or
                policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1
                to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely
                affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program.

                    ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
        Contrato de Mandato has been executed by the parties thereto.

5.02.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Borrower
        (through separate legal opinions from SHCP, SEMARNAT and CONAGUA) and
        BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by BANSEFI
        counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly
        authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and
        BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BANSEFI in accordance with
        the Contrato de Mandato’s terms.

5.03    Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
        is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the
        eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on December
        10, 2011.

                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s representative is the
        Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP.

6.02.   Unless the Borrower’s representative designated in Section 6.01 above otherwise informs
        the Bank, the Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General
        Conditions is:

                Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
                Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
                Palacio Nacional
                Edificio 12, segundo piso
                Colonia Centro
                06000 México, D.F.

                Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216




                                                 4
6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:               Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)




AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.

               UNITED MEXICAN STATES



               By /s/ Ernesto Cordero Arroyo
                                                      Authorized Representative


               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
               DEVELOPMENT



               By /s/ Robert B. Zoellick
                                                      Authorized Representative




                                              5
                                          SCHEDULE 1

                       Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower, through SEMARNAT and CONAGUA, under the Program,
aimed at strengthening the institutional framework and monitoring capacity in integrated water
resource management as well as mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in water programs,
include the following:

1.      The Borrower, through SEMARNAT, has adopted the necessary measures to strengthen
        its commitment to elevate its adaptation to climate change agenda in the water sector, as
        evidenced by the publication on November 2009 of the Fourth Communication to the
        United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.

2.      The Borrower, through CONAGUA, has taken the necessary steps to strengthen the
        institutional framework for integrated water resource management, as evidenced by: (i)
        the delegation of increased responsibility to 18 Basin Councils to oversee, plan and
        manage projects and programs defined in Watershed Management Plans; and (ii) the
        setting up of two water banks to foster the sustainable management and efficient
        administration of water resources, as evidenced in chapter 4.1 of the Borrower’s third
        Government Progress Report published on the Borrower’s web site
        (www.informe.gob.mx/informe/) on September 2009.

3.      The Borrower, through CONAGUA, has issued regulatory instruments for the promotion
        of conservation of groundwater resources, as evidenced by: (i) the publication in the
        Borrower’s Diario Oficial of NOM 014-CONAGUA-2003 on August 18, 2009, spelling
        out the requirements for artificial aquifers recharge; and (ii) the publication in the
        Borrower’s Diario Oficial of NOM 015-CONAGUA-2007 on August 18, 2009, spelling
        out the technical specifications for the artificial infiltration of aquifers.

4.      The Borrower, through CONAGUA, has strengthened the Borrower’s Wastewater
        Treatment Funding Program as to include criteria promoting the recharge of aquifers and
        water re-use for conservation of groundwater resources, as evidenced by the operating
        rules of the Wastewater Treatment Funding Program published in the Borrower’s Diario
        Oficial on December 30, 2008.

5.      The Borrower, through SEMARNAT (through CONAFOR), has issued operating rules
        for the Special Program for the Conservation and Protection of Micro-watersheds in
        Priority Areas, to promote reduction of soil erosion, reforestation and forest protection, as
        evidenced by the operating rules explicitly addressing climate change adaptation for the
        Special Program for the Conservation and Protection of Micro-watersheds, published on
        CONAFOR’s web site on July 14, 2009 (www.conafor.gob.mx).




                                                 6
6.      The Borrower, through SEMARNAT, has promoted the protection of overexploited
        aquifers through the strengthening of its programs to foster water productivity of
        irrigation, as evidenced by the publication in the Diario Oficial on December 30, 2008 of
        operating rules for the Programs for Irrigation, Water, Sewerage and Sanitation executed
        by CONAGUA.


Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to withdraw the proceeds of the
        Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan shall (except for amounts required to repay the
        Front-end Fee and any Premia for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars) be
        withdrawn in a single tranche. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is
        set out in the table below:


                                                                  Amount of the Loan
                                                                       Allocated
                           Allocations                           (expressed in Dollars)

         Single Withdrawal Tranche                                 448,875,000

         Front-end Fee                                               1,125,000

         Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest Rate                      0
         Collars (amounts due under section 2.07 (c) of
         this Agreement)

         TOTAL AMOUNT                                              450,000,000


C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is
        satisfied: (a) with the Program, being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the
        appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
                account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and




                                                7
     2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
            this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
            management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
     not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
     amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
     Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
     amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
     shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.




                                            8
                                SCHEDULE 2


                            Amortization Schedule

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on April 15, 2028.




                                       9
                                         APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “BANSEFI? means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C., a
       Mexican development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the
       Loan, or any successor thereto acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of this Program.

2.     “Basin Councils? means advisory bodies created through the Borrower’s Water Law (Ley
       de Aguas Nacionales), charged with the revision and provision of input to activities for
       the improvement of water resources management and to develop water activities in their
       respective basins.

3.     “CONAFOR? means Comisión Nacional Forestal, the Borrower’s forestry commission.

4.     “CONAGUA? means Comisión Nacional de Agua, the Borrower’s water commission.

5.     “Contrato de Mandato? means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.

6.     “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
               United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
               or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
               designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group                 Description of Item
                         112                                       Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                       Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                                   tobacco refuse
                         122                                       Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                   (whether or not containing
                                                                   tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                       Radioactive and associated
                                                                   materials
                         667                                       Pearls, precious and
                                                                   semiprecious stones,
                                                                   unworked or worked



                                              10
                      718             718.7                   Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                              thereof; fuel elements
                                                              (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                              for nuclear reactors
                      728             728.43                  Tobacco processing
                                                              machinery
                      897             897.3                   Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                              platinum group metals (except
                                                              watches and watch cases) and
                                                              goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                                              wares (including set gems)
                      971                                     Gold, non-monetary
                                                              (excluding gold ores and
                                                              concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
            prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
            the Borrower is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
            Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
            and

     (f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
            coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
            recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
            having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
            such practices when they occur.

7.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through
     February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

8.   “NOM? means Norma Oficial Mexicana (Official Mexican Standards).

9.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support the
     Borrower's actions to ensure adaptation to climate change in the water sector,
     contributing to long-term sustainable growth as well as strengthening institutions,
     regulations and monitoring capacity in integrated water resources management, as set
     forth or referred to in the letter dated April 26, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank
     declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting
     assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.



                                           11
10.     “Programs for Irrigation, Water, Sewerage and Sanitation? means Programas de
        Infraestructura Hidroagrícola y de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento, the
        Borrower’s programs to raise the preservation, efficiency and sustainability in the use of
        water, promote the strengthening of organizations, companies and associations
        responsible for water management, water supply services, and sewerage and sanitation
        services, in urban and rural areas.

11.     “SEMARNAT? means Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, the
        Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.

12.     “SHCP? means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s Ministry of
        Finance and Public Credit.

13.     “Single Tranche? means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single
        Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

14.     “Special Program for the Conservation and Protection of Micro-watersheds in priority
        areas? means Programa Especial para la Restauración de las Microcuencas en Zonas
        Prioritarias, the Borrower´s program to promote reduction of soil erosion, reforestation
        and forest protection within priority areas.

15.     “Wastewater Treatment Funding Program? means Programa Fondo Concursable para
        Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales, the Borrower’s program for the provision of subsidies
        for the promotion of wastewater treatment through the construction of new, upgrading of
        existing, and/or operation and maintenance of wastewater treatment plants.

16.     “Watershed Management Plans? means instrumentos de gestión, the Borrower’s plans for
        the management and integrated development of land and water, as well as the associated
        resources and the environment, set up to sustain and enhance watershed functions that
        affect the plant, animal and human communities within a watershed boundary, including
        water supply, water quality, sewerage, drainage, wastewater treatment, water rights, and
        overall planning and utilization of watersheds.


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.




                                               12
3.   Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
     Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.   Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
     relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

             “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

             …         (c)     The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
             bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
             two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Ba nk’s
             representatives to examine such records.?

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

             Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

             …       (c)      The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
             to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
             scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
             the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
             respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
             the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as follows:

              “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put, other than to
             finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.?

     (b)     The term “Financial Statements? and its definition are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)     The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is modified
             to read as follows (and all references to “Project? throughout these General
             Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?):

             “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
             which the Loan is made.?


                                             13
