Report No. PID10556
Project Name                     Comoros, Islamic Federal Republic of the-
Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Multisectoral
Project ID                       KMPE74054
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Moroni, Grande Comore
Tel. 269.74.41.61/75
Date Prepared                    July 18, 2001
Appraisal Date                   June 26, 2001
Projected Board Date             August 2, 2001
Country Background
1.      The Comoros is an archipelago of four islands situated in the
Mozambique channel. The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros comprises
three islands (Grand Comore, Anjouan, and Moheli), each one of which voted
for independence in 1974. The fourth island, Mayotte, chose at the time to
stay under French administration. Comoros has had a turbulent political
history since independence and has experienced frequent changes in political
leadership.
2.      Since 1997, Comoros' political instability has been exacerbated, as
Anjouan attempted to secede from the Republic. The crisis was compounded by a
coup d'etat in March 1999 when a new government was instituted. After a
prolonged period of mediation led by the Organization of African Unity (OAU)
and with the assistance of the Organization of the Francophonie (OIF), the
representatives of the three islands reached an agreement in February 2001 on
a national reconciliation process.
3.      The agreement, signed in Fomboni, provides for a transition period of
approximately one year until early 2002, during which, a new constitution
will be drafted and elections will be held. A referendum on the new
constitution, based on regional autonomy for the three islands, would be held
between July and September 2001. A government of national unity is expected
to govern after the new constitution is adopted, for a period of
approximately six months until elections for a new government are held for
early 2002.
4.      During the transition, the national reconciliation process is being
managed by a steering committee (Comite de Suivi) consisting of the
President, representatives from the Government, Anjouanese officials and the
opposition from all three islands. The international community is represented
on the steering committee by the OAU and OIF. The technical dimensions of the
transition process are being managed by a Tri-partite Commission consisting
of 72 members representing the government, the opposition, and civil society
of all three islands. The tasks of the Tri-partite Commission include the
drafting of the new constitution and the implementation of a new financial



framework.
5.      Poverty was already pervasive before the current political crisis, with
some 47 percent of households living below the poverty line in 1995. The
poverty rates for the three islands varied: about 41 percent for Grande
Comore, 62 percent for Anjouan, and 52 percent of Moheli. Although more
recent poverty statistics are not available, negative per capita growth rates
during the crisis and the international embargo on Anjouan (since February
2000) are expected to have had an adverse impact on poverty and well-being on
all three islands. Malnutrition is reported to have reached 42 percent in
2000, from 34 percent in 1996.
6.      Real GDP in Comoros is estimated to have declined by lt in 2000 and
inflation to have increased to almost 5t in 2000 mainly due to higher
petroleum prices. Paradoxically, the trade account improved substantially,
with higher world prices for major exports (vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang) and
marginal increases in import volumes. Coupled with higher receipts from the
Comorian community abroad, the external account deficit declined from 11
percent of GDP in 1999 to 5 percent of GDP in 2000. At end-2000, gross
official reserves stood at 8 months of imports of goods and non-factor
services, an improvement over the previous year.
7.      Both public revenues and expenditures declined in 2000, leaving the
overall fiscal deficit unchanged at some 4.39 of GDP. In the absence of
foreign budgetary support, the deficit was financed by growing internal and
external arrears. Civil service arrears of up to 24 months present a
particular impediment for reforming government and achieving social
stability.
8.      Comoros' external debt at end-2000 has been estimated at US$225 million
(113t of GDP), of which US$173 million is owed to multilateral creditors.
Interest and principal arrears amounted to US$63 million, of which US$24
million is owed to the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA),
and US$18 million to the African Development Bank (AfDB).
World Bank Strategy and Donor Support
9.      The decision to prepare an emergency credit follows from the Interim
Support Strategy (ISS) approved by the Board of the World Bank in November
2000. At the time of Board presentation of the ISS, the Comoros was in a base
case scenario. The ISS provides for moving to a high case scenario when
Comoros shows tangible and decisive progress towards national reconciliation,
which is considered a necessary pre-condition for emergency assistance to be
effective, and substantial improvement in public sector management. Triggers
in the ISS for the high case scenario comprise (i) good performance under the
base case and (ii) preparation of an integrated budget with better fiscal
management and equitable distribution of resources to the three islands.
10.     In March 2001, the IMF conducted an Article IV mission and negotiated a
Staff Monitored Program (SMP) for a 12-month period. The IMF estimated the
budgetary financing gap to be covered at US$12.8 million. The SMP could be
transformed into a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in the new
year after a new government is in place and after the presentation of an
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP).
- 2 -



11.     Concurrently with the IMF mission, an informal meeting of Comoros'
development partners was held in Moroni, with participation from BADEA, BID,
AfDB, the EU, the UNDP, France, and other bilaterals. The IMF and the World
Bank were also included. During the meeting, the authorities updated the
donor community on economic and financial developments, the need to resume
developmental assistance to the Comoros, and need for financial assistance
during the transition process.
12.     As a subsequent step, donors and creditors have held a meeting of the
Friends of Comoros on July 5, 2001 in Paris and confirmed pledges for
financing the transition period. IDA will finance half of the transition
costs. Other multilaterals and bilaterals will cover the remaining balance.
In the meantime, IDA has made available to the Government of Comoros a post-
conflict grant of US$788,000 for reintegrating young militia and other at-
risk youth in the Anjouanese economy. This activity is closely linked to the
proposed EERC and is a component of the authorities' national reconciliation
strategy.
The EERC objectives and description
13.     The World Bank proposes to make available US$6 million for an Emergency
Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) to help finance Comoros' exit from the
secessionist crisis. The proceeds of the credit will finance Comoros' imports
in order to support the government's economic recovery program.
14.     The economic recovery program will target urgent public expenditure
needs for poverty alleviation and pressing expenditure needs in support of
the national reconciliation process. The program has been designed with the
help of authorities in Grande Comore, Anjouan, and Moheli, under the
coordination of the Director General for Planning of the Comoros.
15.     The credit will be disbursed against a positive list of imports.    The
Comorian government will verify the use of the funds through its own review
procedures and will report regularly to the Bank. Together with the
authorities and the country's development partners, the World Bank will
closely monitor and audit the implementation of the economic recovery
program.
Environmental Aspects
16.     The implementation of the reform program is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact; therefore the project is environment category
is C.
Benefits and Risks
17.     The EERC would provide vital financial support for the transition
period in the Comoros, and in the process, leverage additional donor funding.
Such financing would enable urgent poverty alleviation activities to take
place in a country where at least 47 percent of the households are living in
poverty and about 42 percent of the population is malnourished. The credit
would also remove administrative obstacles hindering in the national
reconciliation effort. Bank assistance is also seen as an important
indication that the international financial community is willing to help the
- 3 -



crisis-ridden Comorian islands, once the internal political turmoil has been
settled by Comorians. The proposed credit would provide much needed support
in each of the three islands, Anjouan, Grande Comore, and Moheli.
18.     Two important risks have been identified:
i. The national reconciliation process could stall or be reversed. The
progress made this year starting with the Fomboni agreement in February
2001 has been substantial but the consensus between the various parties
remains fragile. The national reconciliation process is currently
supported by the authorities in Anjouan and by government and opposition
leaders in Grande Comore and Moheli, but that could change.     Along with
other donors, the Bank is implementing projects and advancing other
forms of aid in a decentralized fashion to hasten response times to
groups at risk.
ii. The government may lack the capacity to sustain the economic recovery
effort. The crisis in the Comoros has led to the flight of numerous
cadres from Grande Comore and Anjouan, so that current capacity in
public management is limited.    Absence of well qualified personnel in
planning, budgeting, and resource management may derail the recovery
efforts already made. This risk is mitigated by the availability of
technical assistance in expenditure management and strategy (including
the Bank's IDF grant). The Ministry of Finance in Grande Comore will
provide technical personnel to strengthen financial administration in
Anjouan and Moheli. France has agreed to provide technical assistance to
improve budgetary management and verification.
Contact point:  The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20533
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Team Leaders:    Christos Kostopoulos
Tel: (261) 2022-560-00
Fax: (261) 2022-333-38
Email: ckostopoulos@worldbank.org
Wolfgang Fengler
Tel: (202) 458-0538
Fax: (202) 473-8466
Email: wfengler@worldbank.org
- 4 -



