Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7475-COM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 4.8 MILLION (US$ 6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR AN
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
JULY 11, 2001



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Comorian Franc
US$1.00                      580 CF
SDR 1                        722 CF
SYSTEM OF WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ABEDA                    Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
AfDB                     African Development Bank
CARE                     Cooperative Assistance and Relief Everywhere
CPPR                     Country Portfolio Performance Review
DCA                      Development Credit Agreement
EERC                     Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
FY                       Fiscal Year
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GNP                      Gross National Product
HIPC                     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                      International Development Association
IDF                      Institutional Development Fund
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
ILO                      International Labor Organization
I-PRSP                   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISS                      Interim Support Strategy
OAU                      Organization of African Unity
OIF                      Organization of the Francophonie
PCF                      Post-Conflict Fund
PRGF                     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SAC                      Structural Adjustment Credit
SMP                      Staff Monitored Program
SDR                      Special Drawing Rights
US$                      United States Dollar
Vice President:                   C. Madavo
Country Director:                 H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:                   C. Mills
Task Team Leader:                 C. Kostopoulos / W. Fengler



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A.  Background ................................................                               1
B.  Recent Political Developments ................................................1
C.  Recent Economic Developments and Poverty ................................................ 2
D.  Bank Response and Strategy .........4......................................4
E.  Detailed Project Description ................................................6
F.  Role of the IMF and Other Donors ...............................................7
G.  Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation .....................................8






ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
A.   Background
1.    The Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros comprises three islands in the Indian
Ocean (Grande Comore, Anjouan, and Moheli), with a population of around 530,000. A
fourth island, Mayotte, remained under French administration when the Islamic Federal
Republic of the Comoros became independent. GNP per capita is estimated at US$356 in
2000, down from about US$500 per capita a decade ago. Comorians living in France
amount to more than two-thirds of the population of the Republic. They are a source of
considerable income transfers.
2.    Since independence, Comoros' politics have been characterized by a high degree
of political instability including numerous coups d'etat and a period of mercenary
supported Governments. Even at the time of the referendum for independence ii!
December 1974, the country was divided when Grande Comore, Anjouan, and Moheli
voted 96 percent for independence while Mayotte voted 63 percent against. The first
three islands formed the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros and declared their
independence unilaterally on July 6, 1975, while Mayotte remained under French rule.
3.    Poor economic performance and continuing poverty through the 1980's were thre
consequences of the unstable political environment and weak governance. The tirst
major attempt at reform was the implementation of the first adjustment program in 1991,
which despite initial delays, led to improvements in public sector manag' ment. This
contributed to a rise in GDP growth of 1.9 percent per annum. The 1994 devaluatior' of
the Comorian Franc by 33 percent in foreign currency terms also improveu tht .ullntry's
competitiveness.
4.    However, weak fiscal performance and stemmed progress towrels recove.!
derailed the IMF program. By way of perspective, the Bank's strategy .ti the time
envisaged the potential for a 6 percent real growth rate based on consolidating the
benefits of devaluation in export agriculture, deregulation, and public sectot ?ffc3 incv.
Continued political turmoil and economic management problems delayed preparations
for a second IDA Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) and an IMF  ;ai Mon;tored
Program (SMP) through 1997 when the political crisis in Anjouan erupted.
5.    The Anjouanese crisis erupted when the island attempted to secede `-frrm the
Republic in 1997 due to dissatisfaction with an unresponsive central Governm' nt and
declining living standards. Anjouan contains 45 percent of the country's populatioi. I .1
Anjouanese secession attempt led to the imposition of an Organization of African Unity
(OAU) sponsored embargo which severely disrupted trade and exacerbated povertv. A
Government invasion in 1997 was repulsed but left a legacy of armed militias in Anjouan
which are a source of local instability.
B.   Recent Political Developments
6.    Comoros' political instability results from the twin crises of separatism on
Anjouan and lack of democratic legitimacy of the central Government. Anjouan



separatists had refused to accept a compromise agreement negotiated in Antananarivo on
a new union and dissatisfaction arising from the deteriorating economic situation led to
unrest in Grande Comore. Riots prompted the army to intervene and take over power in a
bloodless coup on March 30, 1999.
7.    Efforts continued to resolve the secessionist crisis and improve the economic
situation. In December 1999, a civilian Government was named under the leadership of
Prime Minister Hamada Madi (Bolero), with the support of 22 out of Comoros' 30
political parties, and promised to carry out elections once the crisis is resolved. An
agreement on a joint declaration between the President of the Comoros and the head of
the Anjouan breakaway Government was signed in August 2000. However, the OAU
would not recognize the agreement as legitimate.
8.   In February 2001, after a prolonged period of mediation led by the OAU and with
the assistance of the Organization of the Francophonie (OIF), the representatives of the
three islands reached an agreement on a national reconciliation process. The agreement,
signed in Fomboni, Moheli is known as the Fomboni Accord.
9.    The Fomboni Accord provides for a transition period of one year, from the time
of its signature until national elections are held under a new constitution. The new
constitution, which is currently being drafted, would have as a central feature regional
autonomy for each of the three islands. A referendum on the new constitution would be
held between July and September 2001.  Upon adoption of the constitution, a
Government of national unity is expected to govern, for a period of approximately six
months, and to prepare the country for national elections in early 2002.
10.   During the transition, the national reconciliation process is being managed by a
steering committee (Comite de Suivi) consisting of the President of the Republic, two
members of the Government, two representatives of Grand Comore and Moheli, one
Anjouanese official and the opposition from the three islands.  The international
community is represented on the Steering Committee by the OAU and OIF. The
technical dimensions of the transition process are being managed by a Tri-partite
Commission consisting of 72 members representing the Government, the opposition, and
civil society of all three islands. The tasks of the Tri-partite Commission include the
drafting of the new constitution and the design and implementation of a new financial
framework.
11.   The process of reconciliation is still fragile. In late April 2001, the negotiations
stalled, when Anjouanese representatives withdrew their participation on the Comite de
Suivi in order to protest OAU's decision to only suspend the embargo; the Anjouanese
authorities demanded the embargo be lifted.  The Anjouan authorities were also
dissatisfied with the lack of promised financial transfers from the central Government.
However, the various parties continue to endorse the reconciliation process. Indeed the
Tri-partite Commission started its technical work on May 20, 2001.
C.   Recent Economic Developments and Poverty
12.   Real GDP in Comoros is estimated to have declined by 1.1 percent in 2000 and
inflation to have risen by levels close to 5 percent in 2000 due to higher petroleum prices.
2



The trade account improved substantially with higher world prices for vanilla, cloves, and
ylang-ylang, and remittances from abroad rose. The volume of exports continued to
decline thus offsetting part of the potential benefits of the price rise. Imports rose only
marginally.
13.   Public sector management has been proactive during the past year because
expenditures were reduced following lower than expected revenues. Accordingly, the
overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) amounted to 3.8 percent of GDP. The revenue
decline was due to problems with a new computerized customs administration and tax
arrears owed by the faltering petroleum company. Current expenditures declined from
13.8 percent of GDP in 1999 to 12.5 percent in 2000 due mainly to cuts in goods and
services outlays (see table below). In the absence of foreign budgetary support, the
resulting deficit was financed by growing external and internal arrears. Civil servants,
who are owed up to 24 months of salary in total, were paid 11 months in 2000.
Table 1: Comoros: Key Economic Indicators
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Estimate projection
Real GDP growth                3.6   -1.3    4.2    1.2    1.9   -1.1    1.0
Real GDP per capita growth     0.9   -3.9    1.5   -1.5   -0.8   -3.7   -1.7
Consumer price index (change)    12.5    2.0    3.0    3.5    3.5    4.8    3.5
(as percent of GDP)
Gross domestic fixed          15.5   13.6   13.4   14.7   11.9   10.4   10.2
investment
Gross national savings         6.6    4.9   -2.4    8.7    7.8   10.0    9.1
Fiscal revenue and grants     24.1   20.6   22.6   18.7   18.4   14.4   16.9
Total expenditure             31.5   26.4   24.9   22.1   19.1   16.3   20.7
Fiscal balance (with grants)  -7.3   -5.8   -2.2   -3.4   -0.8   -1.9   -3.8
Current account balance (with  -8.9   -8.7  -15.8   -6.1   -4.1   -0.4   -1.1
transfers)
Money supply growth            4.0    6.4    3.1   -3.7    7.0   14.5    5.8
Source: IMF and World Bank
14.   Comoros is currently in arrears to its creditors. The country's external debt at
end-2000 was estimated at US$225 million (113 percent of GDP) of which US$173
million was owed to multilateral creditors. Interest and principal arrears amounted to
US$63 million, out of which US$24 million is owed to the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (ABEDA), and US$18 million to the African Development Bank
(AfDB).
15.   Poverty was already pervasive before the current political crisis took hold.
According to a 1995 ILO-sponsored household survey, some 47 percent of households
and 55 percent of individuals lived below the poverty line. Anjouan with 45 percent of
the population had 56 percent of households and 70 percent of individuals below the
3



poverty line. Moheli with 5 percent ofSthe population had 55 percent of households and
64 percent of individuals below the poverty line. Grande Comore with 52 percent of the
population had a third of the households and 41 percent of individuals defined as poor.
16.   Although surveys and poverty analysis from post-1995 data are not available, the
level of poverty is expected to have risen as per-capita growth has been negative (see
table 1). Anjouan has been particularly affected as it was deprived of both imports and
public services since the effectiveness of the embargo. The decline in economic growth
has lowered real per capita income by an average of 3 percent a year since 1997, offset in
part in Grande Comore by rising transfers from abroad. Education was disrupted by
wage arrears and strikes. Health conditions deteriorated as required social expenditures
were not made due to persistent budgetary problems. The net primary school enrollment
rate is 53 percent and only about 58 percent of children under the age of one are
immunized against prevalent childhood diseases. Only 25 percent of the population has
access to potable water.
D.   Bank Response and Strategy
17.  The Bank resumed disbursements to the Comoros following the clearance of debt
service arrears in January 2000. At that time the portfolio consisted of five projects with
US$26 million of undisbursed balances supporting social sectors, private sector
development, and agricultural services.  Two of these projects (Pilot Agricultural
Services and Small Enterprise Development) were in the final implementation phases
and were scheduled to close at end-December 2000 and end-June 2001, respectively.
T'he Small Enterprise Development Project has been extended.
18.   A Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) was held in March 2000 to
assess the appropriateness of the existing portfolio given the country's protracted political
disputes and two year absence of Bank operations. Effective implementation of existing
projects was regarded as crucial to reach the economic and social objectives of assisting
Comoros to emerge from protracted conflict. The CPPR also led to initial discussions
with the authorities on their national reconciliation and reconstruction strategies. The
objectives of existing projects were found to be broadly valid but simplification of
programs and arrangements was recommended. A detailed program of action for the
following twelve months was agreed upon including acceleration of disbursements,
restructuring of poorly performing projects, rebuilding project teams and strengthening
project financial management.  The decision was also taken to assign regional
coordinators in the three islands for each project to reflect ongoing political concerns.
19.   Recent progress on national reconciliation has created a new dynamic, which
suggests a likely solution to the political crisis and provides a basis for the Bretton
Woods institutions to resume their assistance to Comoros in support of economic and
social recovery. The resumption of IDA disbursements has allowed projects to resume
operations on all three islands. In March 2001, the IMF conducted an Article IV mission
and also negotiated a SMP. A parallel World Bank mission assessed the economic and
social situation and pre-appraised the proposed operations.
20.   The World Bank's response to provide an emergency credit to the Comoros
follows from the Interim Support Strategy (ISS) (IDA/R2000-182) discussed by the
4



Board on November 14, 2000. The ISS responded to the volatile political situation and
then unresolved conflict, which made it imprudent to develop a three-year Country
Assistance Strategy. Instead, the resumption of Bank activities in Comoros is based on:
(i) Government commitment to improving economic management and governance, (ii)
the existence of major poverty problems coupled with inadequate social services, (iii) the
support the Bank can give to national reconciliation and the avoidance of renewed
conflict, and (iv) settlement of IDA arrears.
21.   The ISS contains three scenarios - a low case, a base case and a high case. Under
the low case, the existence of conflict would make it impossible to implement a coherent
program, so Bank activities would stop. Under the base case, IDA would supervise the
existing portfolio and process an infrastructure, water, and environment project.
22.   At the time of Board presentation of the ISS, the Comoros was in a base case
scenario. The ISS provides for moving to a high case scenario when Comoros shows
tangible and decisive progress towards national reconciliation, which is considered a
necessary pre-condition for emergency assistance to be effective, and substantial
improvement in public sector management. Triggers in the ISS for the high case scenario
comprise (i) good perfornance under base case scenario and (ii) preparation of an
integrated budget with better fiscal management and equitable distribution of resources to
the three islands.
23.   Comoros' performance under the base case scenario has been good: the country
has maintained a socioeconomic environment suitable for development, made progress in
decentralizing project management to the islands, and has maintained satisfactory
portfolio performance. An Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant of US$471,620
was approved to provide technical assistance for public expenditure management and a
national development strategy. In March 2001, a new credit (Credit No. 3468-COM) of
US$11.4 million was approved focusing on infrastructure, water, and environment
investments. The project is based on decentralized management in each of the three
islands. The Comoros has also prepared a budget for the current fiscal year which
integrates transfers between Grande Comore and Anjouan. With additional measures
taken to improve financial management, Comoros has moved into the high case scenario.
24.   Given the Comoros' progress on ISS triggers towards a high case scenario, IDA
moved to pre-appraise the country's request for emergency assistance in March/April
2001. The mission held discussions with the authorities in Anjouan and Grande Comoros
and met with representatives of multilateral and bilateral organizations. It confirmed the
commitment and progress being made towards national reconciliation and the creation of
a new decentralized state. The mission also concluded that the provision of emergency
economic assistance was vital to alleviate distress, particularly in Anjouan, to support the
rehabilitation of the economy and to consolidate the process of reconciliation and nation
building. At the same time, the Bank approved a post-conflict grant of US$788,000 to
reintegrate some 650 militias and other at-risk youth into the Anjouanese economy by
providing training and employment opportunities. The grant will be administered by
CARE International (see Attachment 2).
5



E.   Detailed Project Description
25.   Comoros is in a transition. The country is emerging from conflict and moving
towards economic and social rehabilitation, while putting in place the institutions of a
new decentralized state. The proposed Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) is
designed to support the transition until Comoros is prepared to devise and implement a
medium term poverty reduction program with more conventional financial support. The
proposed EERC falls within the high case scenario of IDA's ISS. Indeed, time is of the
essence in this strategy as the transition program cannot be completed without foreign
financing.
26.   The proposed EERC is considered an appropriate instrument as it can be quick
disbursing with no formal tranching. Its objectives are to maintain macroeconomic
stability and address urgent social needs through financing of import costs associated
with rebuilding the economy damaged during the emergency. The Government's
objective is immediate recovery and institutional reforms needed to set the stage for a full
post transition development program.
Design of the Credit
27.   The proposed Credit is designed to be implemented through the financing of a
positive list of imports which will be disbursed periodically to replenish a foreign
exchange account in the Central Bank. The foreign exchange will finance eligible private
and public sector imports (detailed in the Development Credit Agreement). Government
will request withdrawals through statements of expenditures. World Bank simplified
procurement procedures as specified in its guidelines will be applied to public and private
sector imports (see Attachment 5). IDA will conduct a prior review of import contracts
over US$2 million. Expenditures for a single commodity import such as petroleum will
not exceed one half of imports financed by the proposed Credit. No proceeds of the
Credit will be used for food related items for direct consumption.
28.   The proposed Credit will provide foreign exchange to cover the requirements for
imports arising from the emergency recovery spending program. Based on retroactive
financing, up to 20 percent will be released upon signing of the Credit.
Expenditure Priorities
29.   The local currency equivalent of the US$6 million EERC would finance
emergency social and national reconciliation needs. It would cover about 50 percent of
the estimated budgetary financing gap needed to finance the twelve-month transition.
The remainder of the US$12.8 million program will be financed by other development
partners.
30.   The current budget will be revised by September 2001 in accordance with the
agreements reached under the SMP in order to incorporate the additional emergency
social and reconciliation expenditures financed by donors to meet transition needs.
31.   The Government's program follows the priorities defined by the Comorian
authorities (in collaboration with authorities of Anjouan and Moheli). The aggregate
6



allocations for poverty reduction and decentralization have then been subdivided to
finance island-specific expenditures. The representatives from the three islands arrived at
the island-specific allocations by considering the size of the population, the level of
poverty, and the needs for building decentralized institutions at each island.'
Table 2: Allocation of Emergency Expenditures
(in US$ million)
Anjouan      Moheli    Grande Comore       TOTAL
Poverty Reduction       1.5          0.3            1.2            3.0
Decentralization        0.9          0.6            0.3            1.8
Sub-TOTAL               2.4          0.9            1.5            4.8
- National                                                          1.6
Reconciliation
- Economic                                                          5.6
Recovery and
Stabilization
TOTAL                                                               12
F.    Role of the IMF and Other Donors
32.   In March 2001, the IMF conducted an Article IV mission and negotiated a SMP
for a twelve-month period. The program to be monitored includes measures for
strengthening central Government finances for the remainder of 2001 and for 2002. The
program aims at avoiding further accumulation of domestic and external arrears while
freeing resources to meet debt service obligations. Revenues are to be strengthened and
tax exemptions eliminated. The IMF estimated that the budgetary financing gap to be
covered in calendar 2001, including the transition costs, is US$8.3 million. The gap for
the twelve-month period through June 2002, covering the whole transition, is estimated at
US$12.8 million.
33.   In order to assist the Comoros to capitalize on the progression towards national
reconciliation and to seize this window of opportunity, a conference of the Friends of
Comoros was held in Paris on July 5 at the Bank's office to confirm pledges to finance
the transition. IDA will finance half of the transition costs, while other multi-laterals and
bilaterals will cover the balance. The IMF has prepared an SMP and will present it to its
Board in later July 2001.
34.   Comoros' transition out of the present crisis is expected to last until mid-2002.
The IMF SMP could then be transformed into a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) after a new Government is in place and an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (I-PRSP) has been prepared.
' For a detailed description of emergency needs see Government's Letter of Development Policy in
Attachment 1.
7



G.   Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation
35.   The Government has created a Office for the Implementation of the Emergency
Funds which will oversee management of the proposed operation as well as assistance
from other donors to the National Reconstruction and Reconciliation Program. The
Office will be coordinated by the Director General for Planning and will have as
membership representatives of the sectoral departments concerned with the use of the
funds as well as representatives of the financial departments associated with the
mobilization and use of the funds. A sub-committee will be responsible for the
mobilization and control of the funds consisting of the Central Bank, Customs, Treasury,
and Budget department of the Ministry of Finance. Another sub-committee for
implementing the use of the funds will consist of representatives from the Ministries of
Education, Health, Infrastructure and Energy, Agriculture, the Plan Directorate of
Anjouan, and the coordinator of foreign donor aid.
36.   The Office will serve as a project implementation unit and will ensure that the
objectives of the emergency operation are met. It will also provide documentation
(import bills) to IDA to enable disbursements of the operation to take place, and for
ensuring their quality in accordance with World Bank procurement and disbursement
guidelines. The Budget, Planning, and sectoral ministries will manage the use of the
local currency counterpart of the foreign exchange to support the Government's program.
37.  IDA has verified that the Government has adequate capacity to control and
safeguard the use of credit resources and to ensure that the imports for which
reimbursements will be claimed under the Credit will have been procured following the
Bank guidelines. The Office and the Central Bank will keep adequate records of (i) all
IDA funds disbursed under the Credit; (ii) conversion of IDA funds into local currency
(FC); and (iii) expenditures of local currency in accordance with the agreed allocations
for various social sectors and for the three islands as specified in Supplemental Letter No.
3 of the DCA In addition, the Office will submit summary financial statements every
month and the results of an internal audit conducted quarterly. All transactions under
EERC will also be audited by an external independent auditor acceptable to IDA as of
October 2001, January 2002 and a final audit at the end of implementation of the Credit.
38.   The island of Anjouan will follow the procedures established by the Office in
implementing emergency expenditures. Representation of the departments on the Office
would be through their counterpart sectoral ministries and the Secretariat of the Steering
Committee for National Reconciliation. However, periodic audits, ad hoc surveys and
site visits will also be at the disposal of the control structures on the island of Anjouan, to
reinforce local institutions. Anjouanese local budgetary institutions have been managing
their own expenditures even before the crisis, and will continue to do so.
39.   Once the constitution has been adopted and the financial institutions of the
decentralized regional island Government's have been established, the new Government
will adopt a budget fully integrating revenues and expenditures for all three islands. As
capacity to manage and verify the use of expenditures related to the EERC is critical to
ensure program implementation, technical assistance will be provided by France in
budgetary management and control.
8



Attachment 1
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Office of the Presidency
Letter of Policy for National Reconciliation
July 2001
A. POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS AND NATIONAL RECONCILIATION
The socio-economic difficulties afflicting the Comoros for decades were aggravated
by a separatist crisis that began in 1997 when the island of Anjouan seceded from the
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros. The crisis had many disastrous consequences
in terms of political development and impact on development. The secessionist
disturbances and the persistence of the crisis led the international community to take
action against the authorities of the island of Anjouan, including suspension of
cooperation and an economic embargo, which aggravated an already precarious situation.
The embargo also had a negative impact on the other two islands in the Republic:
Grande Comore and Moheli.
The population finds itself without the financial resources essential for imports of
goods and services and also without the financial support of Comorians living on the
other islands. The people are demoralized by the trauma resulting from the violence and
by the disruption of regional and international economic relations, and there has been a
mass exodus of rural and urban population from the island of Anjouan to the other
islands. This has affected economic activities in general and contributed to the increase
in poverty and marked deterioration of social indicators.  For example, rates of
malnutrition (42.3% in 2000 compared with 33.8% in 1996) and infant mortality are
rising steadily, while vaccination coverage continues to decline over the same period.
Steps towards reconciliation
In the last two years, there have been many political efforts to end the separatist crisis
affecting the island of Anjouan. On 17 February 2001, under the auspices of the
international community, the Government, the Anjouan authority, the opposition and
civil society signed the Framework Agreement for national reconciliation.  The
Framework Agreement created a structure to promote the national reconciliation process;
there will be regular evaluations and a timetable for operations.  The national
reconciliation process is spearheaded by two structures: a seven-member Monitoring
Committee (with the participation of the international community) and a 72-member
Tripartite Commission.
The Tripartite Commission has various technical committees. It is to submit a
preliminary version of the constitution of the New Comorian Grouping no later than six
months after the signature of the Framework Agreement and to prepare a referendum on
this constitution. When the new Constitution is approved, a transition Government will
prepare the country for national elections to be held six months later.
9



B. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
Economic growth has marked time over the last decade. It is below population
growth, which is 2.7% a year. During this past decade, private sector investment was
stagnant, reflecting a difficult economic environment. As a consequence, per capita
income decreased from US$500 at the beginning of the 1990s to US$356 in 2000. The
only growth has been in activities connected with trade in imported products.
In 2000, growth contracted by 1% and inflation reached 4.8%, mainly because of the
rise in oil prices. However, the trade balance improved considerably, because of higher
world prices for the main exports (vanilla, cloves, ylang-ylang) and only marginal
increases in the volume of imports. As a result of improved transfers from the Comorian
community living abroad, the external deficit decreased from 11% of GDP in 1999 to 5%
in 2000. Official gross reserves increased to 8 months' imports of goods and non-factor
services at the end of 2000.
The current Government's economic policy is designed to create a climate of
confidence conducive to private investment in order to stimulate production activities.
The goal is therefore to accelerate real GDP growth, to relieve poverty, to contain
inflation, to maintain the parity of the fixed exchange rate and to keep a suitable level of
monetary reserves. Practically speaking, the improvement in the political climate since
February 2001 and the resumption of public investment activities in Anjouan, as well as
the recent increase in world prices for revenue products, point to positive real GDP
growth in 2001.
As far as public finances are concerned, the Government has concentrated on
maintaining financial equilibrium. In 2000, public revenue declined slightly but at the
same time spending also decreased, so that the fiscal deficit remained almost unchanged:
- 0.1% of GDP. The Government was able to pay 11 months of wages while continuing
to make scheduled repayments of the public debt, for which 1.1 billion Comorian francs
(equivalent to 2.5 months' wages) were paid out in 2000. The authorities have also
improved tax collection, cleaned up the database of govemrnent employees and enhanced
transparency in the management of the affairs of State.
Another reason for the fiscal improvements is the restriction on spending financed
from the State budget (11.2% of GDP in 2000 compared with 12.7% in 1999). In
particular, spending on goods and services was reduced by an amount equivalent to 0.5%
of GDP compared with 1999.
The following table shows changes in the primary balance over the period from 1999
to the first half of 2002. After showing a small deficit in 2000 (although slightly higher
than in 1999), the forecast primary balance will improve considerably in the following
years. It shows a surplus in 2001. In relation to GDP, the primary deficit is 0.0% in 1999
and 1.12% in the first half of 2002. These favorable changes are attributable to fiscal
revenue, which alone suffices to cover current government expenditure. Without external
support, the Comorian State would be able to meet its basic operating expenses thanks to
real managerial efforts.
10



Current primary budget balance
(percentage of GDP)
1999      2000      2001     2002Q2
Est. /    Est. 1/   Program   Program
Income                          11.8      10.2      12.6       6.7
Current expenditure             13.8      12.5      15.6       5.6
Salaries and wages             6.3       5.7        5.5       2.6
Goods and services             4.5       3.9        3.0       1.8
Transfers                       0.9       0.9       1.1       0.6
Transition                      0          0        0.4       0.2
Interregional transfers         0          0        0.2       0.4
Currentprimarybudgetbalance      0.0       -0.1       2.8       1.12
Source: Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
In 2001, efforts to improve public finance management are continuing, as
demonstrated by the regular payment of wages. For the first time in several decades,
wages have been paid each month since January 2001 and no payments are overdue.
This regularity in payment of civil service wages is the result of improved control over
public spending. Economic recovery measures, including elimination of certain
exemptions and reintroduction of oil import duties amounting to 0.5% of GDP, were
initiated at the beginning of the year.
However, in the absence of external financial aid, civil service arrears amount to 24
months and external arrears have accumulated. Civil service arrears remain a major
obstacle to government reform and achievement of social stability.
Aware that the country's sustainable economic development can be achieved only
after resumption of relations with all its external creditors, the Comorian Government has
begun discussions to find agreed and appropriate solutions to the external arrears
problem.
The improvements in public finance management have been achieved at considerable
social and economic cost. Since domestic resources alone are not sufficient to maintain
these efforts and stimulate economic activity, the Comoros is therefore asking through
this conference for its friends to provide it with exceptional support in its efforts of
national reconciliation, institution-building and poverty relief.
B1. Short-Term Strategy
The strategy of the Comoros during the transition period is to maintain a viable
macroeconomic situation, in order to meet the most urgent social needs, and to ensure
that the reconciliation process remains on track.
Despite the signature of the Framework Agreement, the political situation remains
very fragile. There is also a social crisis resulting from the accumulation of civil service
11



wage arrears, which must be resolved; payment of two months' wages owed from 2000
could make a real contribution to the settlement of this crisis.
Support for the reconciliation process has two aspects: support for decentralized
institutional structures and financing of transition costs. As regards decentralization, the
priorities are construction and upgrading of administrative buildings in the various
islands and human resource development.
With this aim, the Transition Government has embarked on the formulation of a
strategy designed to stimulate the economy and to promote rehabilitation and
reconstruction in the social sectors. This strategy is combined with an Emergency
Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program, drawn up after sectoral and
regional technical consultations.
B2. Financing of the Strategy
The Comoros will appeal to all its development partners, multilateral and bilateral, for
support for the national reconciliation process. The Meeting of Friends of the Comoros
to be held in Paris will enable us to evaluate the strength of our partners' commitment.
Total financing for the 12 months of transition amounts to US$12.8 million, including
US$800,000 already obtained for the social and professional re-absorption of young
militia members in Anjouan. In addition, requirements for a complete transition include
financing of the cost of the elections, which will be approximately US$1.9 million.
Financing needed for the
Emergency Program from 2001 to 2002 Q2
(millions of US dollars)
Poverty relief                         3.0
Economic recovery / financial stabilization  5.6
Decentralization                        1.8
National reconciliation *              2.4
Total                                  12.8
*Excluding financing of the elections.
These Funds to support national reconciliation could be used to bolster the Comorian
authorities' efforts to meet short-term needs, while laying the foundations for widespread
recovery and a reconstruction program for the post-transition period. They would also be
distributed in the light of the islands' urgent needs, bearing in mind their respective size.
This is illustrated in the following matrix.
Two main areas were considered important: poverty relief, on the one hand, and
decentralization and national reconciliation, on the other. Poverty affects a large part of
the population (47% of households), and it has therefore been decided to allocate to
poverty relief 25% of the- funds to be provided directly by the partners. In view of the
crucial importance of the principle of power-sharing mentioned in the Framework
Agreement for national reconciliation, a large share of the total funds should be allocated
to forceful action to promote decentralization and national reconciliation.
12



The technical discussions identified the subsectors most affected by poverty in which
urgent and rapid action was proposed: health, water and fisheries. The expenditure for
national reconciliation covers the activities of the Monitoring Committee and the
Tripartite Commission and monitoring of spending under the Credit and spending on
technical coordination; the latter activities are the responsibility of the General Planning
Office.
C. URGENT NEEDS VOICED BY THE POPULATION
Consultations involving the various technical sectors, civil society and the island
authorities have identified the needs of the population. The allocation of funds for
national reconciliation support reflects both the size of the population and the level of
poverty in each island. In view of the scope of the Program and the resources currently
available, funds will be allocated only to the priority areas indicated below.
Poverty was already widespread before the outbreak of the political crisis, with
almost 47% of households living below the poverty line in 1995, according to surveys
conducted by the General Planning Office.
The level of poverty varies from island to island: about 41% for Grande Comore,
62% for Anjouan and 52% for Moheli. Although there are no recent statistics on poverty,
negative per capita growth during the crisis and the international embargo against
Anjouan (since January 2000) undoubtedly had an adverse effect on the living conditions
of households and the well-being of the three islands. Malnutrition reportedly reached
42% in 2000, compared with 34% in 1996 (Source: MICS 2000, Statistical Departmnent).
Health services are inadequate to meet demand. The lack of infrastructures, their
poor quality and the limited access to medicines, particularly for the rural population, are
some of the obstacles to the delivery of satisfactory medical services.
C1. Poverty Reduction, Economic Recovery and Financial Stabilization
1. Poverty Reduction
An adjustment was made on the basis of the criteria of population size and incidence
of poverty, giving the following distribution for the (Poverty reduction)) segment
Anjouan - 50%, Moheli - 10%, Grande Comore - 40%.
The consumer budget survey conducted in 1995 showed that rural inhabitants are
primarily concerned by this phenomenon. Accordingly, the Government's emergency
program specifies that a large share of the financing will be allocated to activities
designed to improve the living conditions of these inhabitants. The activities concern
access to health care and water and development of income-producing activities. This
segment devoted to poverty reduction will thus finance the most urgent social and
economic needs for the three islands.
About 62%, or over half the population, has inadequate access to health care.
Problems of availability of medicines and inadequacy of health centers (distance) are
13



particularly widespread in rural areas. In addition, the population has insufficient access
to drinking water.
Poverty Reduction
(Millions of US dollars)
Anjouan                  Moheli         Grande Comore   Total
All Sectors                   1.5                      0.3                     1.2   3.0
Health                       0.45                      0.3                     0.6   1.25
-equipment and upgrading of  0.45  Improvement of          Improved access to  0.40
health posts and centers, gas for  technical facilities    generic medicines in
medical uses                       in Fomboni              rural areas (PNAC)
hospital: operating    -Upgrading of
theater, recovery      subsidiary health
room, X-ray        0.3  structures in rural   0.2
equipment,             areas
ultrasound, lab        -Rehabilitation of
peripheral health
structures in rural
areas (OUZIOINI)2,
I_medical gas
Education                    0.75                                                    0.75
-School supplies             0.25
-Equipment and upgrading of
schools                      0.40
-Retraining of teaching staff  0.10
Water                        0.15                                             0.36   0.61
Treatment of drinking water  0.15                          Urgent water
problems: Makorani 0.36
system
Rural development            0.15                                             0.24   0.39
-Veterinary products         0.05                           Safety at sea:
-Fishing gear                0.05                           lifeboat &
-Fish conservation method    0.05                          communication      0.24
equipment
Maritime safety
a) Health sector
Increased accessibility of generic medicines in rural areas
In view of the poverty of the inhabitants, the increasing incidence of diarrheal
diseases and the aggravation of endemic leprosy, access to medicines must be facilitated.
The fund will be used to increase PNAC stocks of medicines. The upgrading and
equipment of health posts are considered to be necessary. In general, rural inhabitants are
facing tremendous difficulties with regard to health infrastructures and often with regard
to primary health care; this results in very expensive medical evacuations from one
2 In the event the health structure finds a new short-term financing source, the funds will be reallocated to
another health structure.
14



region to another or from one island to another. In order gradually to remedy this
situation, urgent measures must be taken to upgrade and equip existing health posts. The
total amount proposed is US$1.25 million.
b) Education sector
It is essential, particularly in the island of Anjouan, to repair damaged schools,
develop human resources and provide textbooks and teaching materials for schools.
Primary schools will be the main beneficiaries of these measures. The financing
requested amounts to US$0.75 million.
c) Water and environmental sanitation
Almost 75% of the population has no access to drinking water, and this causes serious
health problems such as diarrheal diseases. Rapid action must be taken to solve these
problems. It is planned to create and extend water supply systems, particularly in rural
areas. The total amount proposed is US$0.61 million.
d) Rural development
The great majority of Comorians live off farming and fishing. However, the system
for marketing the products and the methodology are still rudimentary. This precarious
situation causes loss of human life (shipwrecks) and spoilage of the catch. The
Government plans to purchase fish conservation and concentration equipment, lifeboats
and communications equipment. This will reduce fishing-related risks and accidents.
The financing for this purpose amounts to US$0.39 million.
2. Economic Recovery and Financial Stabilization
a) Domestic arrears
The Government would like to repay US$2.9 million in arrears in 2001 and the first
half of 2002. Considerably more arrears are owed by the Government.
(i) Wages
Civil servants have lost all confidence in the Government because they are owed
wages amounting to almost 12 billion Comorian francs (equivalent to 24 months of wage
arrears). Some 7,200 civil servants on the three islands support almost 10% of the
population. These arrears problems have discouraged and demotivated civil servants,
jeopardizing the functioning of the Government. In order to restore the confidence of
these workers (who are essential for the good governance of the administration) and to
restore the State's authority in the administration, it is essential for the Government to be
able to pay at least two months' wages, including one month before the start of the
school year in October 2001. Two months' wages amount to 750 million Comorian
francs (equivalent to US$1.5 million) for Grande Comore and Moheli.
(ii) Suppliers
The State's domestic debt to its private suppliers amounts to almost US$9 million.
The private sector, which is suffering considerably because of a very difficult economic
15



environment, needs an influx of funds to jump start it. Before June 2002, 700 million
Comorian francs, equivalent to US$1.4 million, will be paid to suppliers.  The
Government will thus be starting in June 2002 to pay part of its domestic debt, giving
priority to suppliers which have complied with their tax obligations, if financing is
available.
b) Interregional transfers
These will be used to finance the equivalent of 4 months' wages, particularly for
Anjouan. Additional financing (equivalent to US$1 million) is envisaged in the program.
c) Retrenchment
The aim is to reduce the wage bill through the retirement or voluntary separation of
500 persons. This involves expenditure equivalent to 520 million Comorian francs (US$1
million).
Economic Recovery and Financial Stabilization
(Millions of US dollars)
The three islands                                                  5.6
Domestic arrears                                                   2.9
Interregional transfers (to Anjouan)                               1.0
Retrenchment                                                       1.0
Central Bank                                                      0.7
Total                                                              5.6
d) Central Bank
The Government had obtained an advance from the Central Bank as part of the
regular advances (based on average monthly revenues over the last three years). The State
must repay the sum of 362 million Comorian francs (US$0.7 million) in order to improve
its cash management. These advances are very useful to the State, allowing it to meet
essential expenses in the event of a downturn.
C2. Decentralization and National Reconciliation
1. Decentralization
The << decentralization)> category requires 5.0% of the aid funds requested for the
institutional requirements of each island. The Comorian State is pursuing a policy of
administrative and - above all - economic decentralization; the new structures to be
created should be staffed locally.
Redeployment of civil servants
In the context of institution-building and therefore of decentralization, it is essential
to redeploy government workers and upgrade administrative buildings. Financing for
staff redeployment in Anjouan amounts to US$0.30 million.
16



Upgrading and construction
The financing would be used for basic upgrading and priority equipment of
administrative premises, particularly with information technology, for the three islands in
the context of a decentralized Government. The cost is estimated at US$1.4 million.
Decentralization
Millions of US dollars)
Anjoa                 Moheli      Grande Comore Total
All sectors            0.90                   0.6                0.3   1.8
Civil service          0.3                                             0.3
Staff deployments      0.30
Administrative buildings   0.60               0.3                      0.9
Upgrading and equipment of    Construction of the
administrative premises    0.60  central
administrative  0.3
building in the
__________ __  capital    _
Community buildings and                       0.3                0.30  0.6
equipment              I
Construction of      Upgrading:
administrative       govemorate,   0.204
buildings in the     prefecture,
communes:            vital records
Fomboni,        0.3  center
Nioumachoi,
Miringoni, Wanani    Retraining of  0.096
staff
2. National Reconciliation
The << national reconciliation)) category requires almost 18% of the funds requested
from the international community. These funds would primarily finance the Tripartite
Commission, resulting in a new integrated budgetary system and expenditure monitoring
mechanism, as well as other forms of institutional support. This chapter concerns priority
activities which cannot be divided among the islands and which are essential for the
islands and for the Union.
Monitoring Committee and Tripartite Commission
The Monitoring Committee and the Tripartite Commission are the two organs
established under the Fomboni Framework Agreement. The total cost of the activities of
these two organs is US$0.5 million. The Government will contribute US$0.3 million to
the expenses. The amount to be obtained is US$0.5 million.
Creation of a new fiscal and management structure. monitoring of FARN spending
The Government intends to create a new fiscal structure geared to the requirements of
decentralization and anticipates expenses for the management and monitoring of the
National Reconciliation Support Fund (FARN). The amount requested is US$0.4 million.
17



National reconciliation
(Millions of US dollars)
The three islands                         2.4
Monitoring Committee and Tripartite Commission                      0.5
Creation of a new fiscal structure (budget integration) & management and  0.4
monitoring of emergency plan spending
Institutional support for coordination (General Planning Office)    0.3
Other shortfall                                                     0.4
World Bank: Social and professional reinsertion of young militia members in  0.8
Anjouan (Post-Conflict Grant recently obtained)
Financing already obtained
European Union: Elections                                            1.9
Institutional support for coordination
The Government foresees a need for institutional support for the General Planning
Office, which will coordinate the Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program
for the three islands and FARN activities. The financing requested is US$0.3 million.
Other budgetary shortfall US$0.4 million.
Post-Conflict US$0.8 million (obtained)
Since 1999, the process of reconciliation of the three islands has speeded up. In
February 2001, after a lengthy period of mediation by the Organization of African Unity
and the International Organization for Francophonie, a peace agreement was signed in
Fomboni (Moheli) by representatives of the Government and of the opposition in the
three islands. The proposed plan will seize the opportunity provided by the peace process
to promote stabilization of the social situation in Anjouan. Because of the lack of
equipment and international aid, the target group - young members of the Anjouan
militia - represents a major risk of civil disturbance. At present, this group is supervised
by ex-soldiers who give them military training and organize sports activities. However,
there is growing discontent among the young members of the Anjouan militia because of
the lack of suitable housing and the lack of food and vocational training.
This project will support CARE International for:
(i) reintegration of from 600 to 650 former members of the Anjouan militia and young
people at risk in the Anjouan economy;
(ii) improvement and expansion of facilities for vocational training in Anjouan; and
(iii) strengthening of the new Special Civilian Corps, which will organize 1,400 young
volunteers into << committees for peace and development >>.
Elections US$1.9 million (equivalent) obtained from the European Union.
18



D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE USE OF EMERGENCY FUNDS
The General Planning Office is responsible for project coordination and for
preparation of the Emergency Program for Reconstruction and National Reconciliation.
The emergency funds will cover certain segments of the program.
All activities financed by the emergency funds will be supervised by a fund
management organ - the Office for the Implementation of the Emergency Funds - which
will be responsible for monitoring disbursements and activities, both at the national level
and the island level. The General Planning Director will coordinate this Office. He will
be responsible for coordinating all emergency activities and reporting to the Government
and development partners. He will provide direct liaison between the Government and
all donors, sign correspondence and authorize expenditure in the absence of government
objection. The Office will assume all costs incurred for monitoring, follow-up and
evaluation of activities.
Monitoring arrangements:
An Implementation Unit for the emergency activities will be created (hereinafter
referred to as ( the Unit >>) coordinated by the General Planning office, with the following
membership:
- The Ministry of Education
- The Ministry of Health
- The Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy
- The Ministry of Agriculture
- The Ministry of National Reconciliation
- The Representative of Anjouan
- Donor coordination
This Unit will be expanded to include the financial sectors responsible for the
mobilization of funds et financial control. The Office will be composed as follows:
- The Central Bank
- The Customs
- The Treasury
- The Budget
The Unit should be composed of permanent official members from the General
Secretariats or General Offices. The financial oversight section of the Budget Ministry is
responsible for the commitment of funds, while the "Commission de Wrification des
Comptes Publics" should ensure that expenses are properly incurred. These two bodies
would provide close supervision for emergency funds and guarantee correct execution of
its activities.
The Unit would be responsible for ensuring that the goals of the emergency aid are
attained. Based on institutional networks and supported by external auditors, the Unit
would ensure (i) presentation of eligible invoices and (ii) application of the expenditure
matrix with tangible and measurable progress in the application of this matrix as
presented in this Letter of Development Policy.
A decree signed by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Privatization will officially
create this Unit.
19



Attachment 2
Social and Professional Reinsertion of the Young Anjouanese Militias
Because of the genesis of the Comorian crisis, there is a strong need to provide
targeted assistance to reintegrate young militias and other at-risk youth into the
Anjouanese economy. Anjouanese militias emerged from the attempt of the national
Comorian army in September 1997 to bring Anjouan back under its control. At that time,
Anjouanese authorities distributed arms to defend the island against an offensive by the
national army. Due to political instability and a deteriorating social situation within
Anjouan, the militias were involved in internal fighting in December 1998 and August
1999 with more than 100 people injured and killed.
In the last year, most of the militias are grouped in a camp close to Patsi
(Northeastern Anjouan). The group is under the supervision of former military personnel
who are currently providing military training and organizing sports. However, the
militias still present a major risk for civil disturbance in Anjouan because of social
conditions in the camp and lack of a productive future for participants.
The Bank has made available to the Government of Comoros a grant of its Post-
Conflict Fund (PCF) of US$788,000 for two years (FY 2002-03) to finance the
reintegration of young militia and other at-risk youth in the Anjouanese economy. The
project will feed and house these people during the period of the project. This activity is
closely linked to the proposed EERC and presents an important component of the
authorities national reconciliation strategy. CARE International, which has a strong field
presence in Grande Comore and Anjouan, will administer this project.
The project aims at:
(i) reintegrating 600 to 650 Anjouanese ex-militias and high-risk youth into the
Anjouanese economy;
(ii) upgrading and extending vocational training facilities in Anjouan; and
(iii) strengthening the creation of an Adapted Civil Service (Service Civil Adapte,
SCA) which will organize 1,400 young volunteers within "committees for peace
and development".
The project received broad support from all Comorian key stakeholders and
donors. It will be linked to efforts by the OAU/OIF, assisted by the French Co-operation,
to recuperate the arms of the militias. To facilitate professional reintegration and arms
recuperation, CARE has already conducted a survey among the target group to identify
social background, forrnal skills, expectations for future employment, and the number of
arms in the hands of the militias. The results of this survey will be incorporated in an
ongoing ILO study on the labor market for vocationally trained Anjouanese and linked,
among others, to employment creating projects under the Bank's social fund.
20



Attachment 3
Comoros at a glance                                                              6/4101
Sub-
POVERT and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low.
Comoat    Affic          t lncom  Development dbamond
2000
Poputation mid-year (mison)                        056        643    2,417                 Lifeexpectancy
GNP per capita (Alis method, USS)                   380       490      420
GNP (Atlis mnioo USS bilions)                      0,21       316    1t008
Averge annual groth. 199400                                                                      T
Population (#J                                      2.5       2.6       1.9
Laborforce(%)                                       32        2.6       2.4     GNP                             Gross
per                                  primary
Moetrecenatlnratestataatytearavallable. 1994.00)                                caia/                       erlmn
M*NtmObj*"UmaftAlidedyawavadabl*,199440)capita                                          enrollment
Poverty (A ol poptlabor below na ltpoverV lle)
Urban populatlon ('A of totat pop Wtion)             32        34       31
Lte expecta  tbirth (yeams)                          60        47       S9
lritar mortality (per 1,fO live births)                       92       77
Child malnuttion % of chdren underS1                 26                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)            55       76
Illiteracy (6 ofpopulationage 15+)                   45        39       39
Gross pimaryenolmett (%of schdof-age population)     75        78       96            -    Comoros
Male                                                        85       102                 Low-inconme group
Female                                                       71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RAT7OS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1910    1990      19SS      2000  _        _       _          _  _ _
EconornIc ratloe
GOP (USS billons)                          0.12    0.25      0.22      0120
Gross domesic investmen&GDP                33.2    197       14.8      13.2
xports of goods and serves/GDP              8.7    14.3      23,1      2856                    Trade
Gross domestic savingsaiDP                -101      -37 2     2.7       7 0
Gross national savings/DP                  -0.4    11 0       7.8      10.0
Curent accountbalancoiG0P                  -7.2    -8.7       4.0      -0.3
IntarestpaymentsVGOP                        0.2     0.2       1.0       1       Dometic                    Investment
otal debtfGDP                              35.9    73.8      80.0      77.0    savings
Total debt semvice/exports                                   20.9      1689
Present value oJf debttGDP
Present vaue of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1990-90  1990.00    1999     2000  2000-04
(average &qn1u5glg wth)
GDP                                2.8      1.1      19       -1.1      2,0            -Comoros
GNP per capta                      0.1     N 5      04       -3 5      -0.6                 Low-income group
Exports of goods                   9.3      4.7   -229        4-0       0.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
19B0    1990      199       2000     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                      20
Agricutture                                34.0    41.4      40.9      40.9
Industry                                   13,2     8.3      11.9      11.9     o
Manufacturing                             3.9      42        4.2       42      0
Services                                   52.8    50.3      47.2      47 2  D
Private consumption                        79.2    86.7      82.7      79.5    4
General govemment consumption              30.9    16.5      14.6      13.5             -Ga             GDP
Imports of goods and services              51.9    37.1      35.2      31.9 9                             0
19B0-90  1990400     1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports(%)
(average annual growth)                                                        z
Agriculture                                 4.0      1.6      4.4       1.0    40
Industry                                   -2.9     3.6       2.9      -7.1    30      A       
Manufacturing                             4.9      0.8       0.0     -7.0    2D -
Services                                    3.1     0.2      -0.6      -1.6     o  A         .
Prvate consumption                          3.4     2.6       7.5       4  5      -. o           97 _  \ s  J
General govemment consimption               0.0     1.2      -1.6      -1.6   -2
Gross domestc investment                   4.2    -7.2    -20.0    -12.0    40
Imports of goods and services              -0.2     2.4      -0.1      -2.9           -     Exporls    -*Imports
Gross nationel product                      2.7      1.1      2.2      -1.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary esbmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete. Latest year for improved water source data is 2000.
21



Attachment 3
Comoros
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflaton %)
Doomesftc prices
(X change)                                                                    25
Consumer pnces                                      1.6       3.5      4.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                               2.2       5.8      6.1    15
Govemment finance                                                         9
(X o0 GOP, incdudes cunent grants)
Currentm revenue                                   321       184      144
Current budget balance                              4.8       4.6               -G WP dePtator - t  CPI
Overati surpiustdeficit                            -0.5      -0.8     -1.9
TRADE
(US$ mInhons)                             1980    1S90      1999     2000       Eaxort end Import levls (US$ mill.)
Totalexports(fob)                                    18       18       20    Wo
Otherfood                                           9         4        8
Otherfood                                           1         0        1
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                  57       73       78
Food                                               10        22       23
Fuel and energy                                     6         8        9
Capital goods                                       .        14       15      o
94  96  go  57  OR  go  0D
Export price index (1995=100)                      126        71       72
Import pnce index (1995=100)                        92       136      140                Exporns    *9m6Ports
Temns of trade (1995=100)                           137       52       51
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$mglions)                             iss1    1990      19919    200       Cununt account balance to GWP 1%
Exportsoftgoods and services                1 3     36        52       52      o  _         * _
Imports of goods and services               34      93        78       64      -2  *_
Resource balance                           -21     -57       -27       -13
Netincome                                    1       -1        0        0      a        -
Net current transfers                       1 1     36        18       11    10
Current account balance                     -9    -22         -9        1
Financing items (net)                        5       18       13       10
Changes in net reserves                      4       3         -4      -9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       6      31        39       29
Conversion rate (DEC, bocatlUS$)          211.3   272.3    481.8    534.0
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of 2000 debtt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        44      185      210      225
IBRD                                       0       0         0        0
IDA                                        4      38        73       71                      13
Total debt seMce                             0        1        3                                         7
IBRO                                       0       0         0        0
IDA                                        0       0         1        2
Composibon of net resource flows                                                                             2
Official grants                                             15        9
Oflica creditors                          13       4         ..       .3 0
prTvatecreditors                           0                0        0
Foreign direct investment                                                                             Is ..  1
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commiments                                 5       0         0        0      A - IR0                   E - Bilaerml
Disbursentes                               2        1        2         1     8 -IDA    D - Other mula teral F- Privte
Prncipal repayments                        0       0         0         1
Net flows                                  2        1        2        0
Interest payments                          0       0         1        1
Net transfers                              2       0         1        -1
Development Economics                                                                                          6/4/01
22



Attachment 4
Comoros - Key Economic Indicators
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product                    100      100     100      100      100      100      100      100
Agriculture                              41       41       41      41        41      41       41       41
Industry                                 12       12       12       12       12       12      12       12
Services                                 47       47       47      47       47       47       47       47
Total Consumption                         107      108      96       97       93       93       94       96
Gross domestic fixed investment            14       13      15       12       10       11       11       11
Government investment                     6        6        8       5         4       4        4        4
Private investment                        8        7        7       7        .7       7        7        7
Exports (GNFS)b                            18       18      23       23       26       24       23       22
Imports (GNFS)                             41      43       37       35       32       31       31       31
Gross domestic savings                     -7       -8       4        3        7        7        6        4
Gross national savings                      5       -2       9        8       10        9       10        8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                    230     212      215      223      202      219      231      243
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)        410     400      370      350      380
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1990 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -1.3    4.2      1.2      1.9     -1.1      1.0      2.0      2.0
Gross Domestic Income                   -1.6     4.8      2.1      4.1      0.7      0.2      2.3      2.1
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1990 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -3.8     1.6    -1.4    -0.7      -3.6    -1.6    -0.6    -0.6
Total consumption                       -4.0     5.6   -10.8       3.4     -6.5    -2.5       1.2      1.3
Private consumption                     -1.0     7.2   -10.5       4.8     -6.9    -3.3       1.5      1.7
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                           42      39       49       52       52       52       53       53
Merchandise FOB                          6       6        6        9       12       10        9        8
Imports (GNFS)b                          95       91       79      78        64      67       71       74
Merchandise FOB                         49      48       42       43       38       39       42       44
Resource balance                         -53     -53      -30      -27       -13     -15      -18      -21
Netcurrenttransfers                       33       19       17      18        11      13       11       11
Current account balance                  -20     -33      -13       -9       -I       -3       -6      -10
Net private foreign direct investment      1        0       0        0        0        0        0        0
Long-tern loans (net)                     ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
Official                                  6       4        -4      -6       -8       -6       -6       -5
Private
23



Attachment 4
Comoros - Key Economic Indicators (continued)
Other capital (net, mcl. errors &          ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
omissions)
Change in reserves                         -9       4        3       -4       -9       -4       -1       -1
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)              -23.1   -24.9   -13.7   -12.0    -6.2    -6.8    -7.7    -8.7
Real annual growth rates ( YR90 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)               -21.9      5.4      6.2     6.9      7.1      7.4      6.4      6.6
Primary
Manufactures
Merchandiseimports(CIF)                  -6.1      1.3      1.8     2.3      3.5      4.0      4.3      4.6
Public finance (as % of GDP at market
prices)'
Current revenues                         20.6    22.6    18.7    18.4    14.4    16.9    15.5          15.8
Current expenditures                     20.6    18.9    14.3    13.8    12.5    16.1         14.5     13.2
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  0.0    3.8     4.4      4.6       1.9     0.8      1.0      2.6
Capital expenditure                       5.8      6.0      7.8     5.4      3.9      4.7      4.3      4.4
Foreign financing                         2.9      1.8      1.7    -0.5      0.1       1.3     0.9       1.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                   20.1     19.8    18.0    17.9    19.5    19.5    19.3    19.2
GrowthofM2(%)                             6.4      3.1    -3.7      7.0    14.5       5.8      6.2      6.5
Private sector credit growth /
total credit growth ('%)
Price indices( YR90 =100)
Merchandise export price index          165.0   177.1   189.3   185.8   187.9   189.5   193.0   195.3
Merchandise import price index           78.3    84.1    85.9    87.5    90.2    92.9    94.3    95.9
Merchandise terms of trade index        210.7   210.7   220.4   212.2   208.2   204.0   204.7   203.7
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f              ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)           2.0      3.0      3.5     3.5      4.8      3.5      3.0      3.0
GDP deflator (% change)                   3.2      0.7      1.5     5.8      6.1      4.7      3.2      2.6
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes
appreciation.
24



Attachment 5
Comoros EERC: Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
The Credit will be disbursed against imports which conform to a positive list of
ten categories as contained in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).  The
disbursements of foreign exchange will be deposited in an account in the Central Bank.
Government will use the local currency generated from the foreign expenditures to
finance priority purposes related to poverty alleviation, economic recovery and
decentralization.
PROCUREMENT
General
The Office for the Implementation of the Emergency Funds (the Office)
managing the project will be presided over by the Director General of Planning. A sub-
committee consisting of representatives of the Central Bank and Ministry of Finance will
collect documents showing proof of shipment and payment for imports included in the
positive list. A second sub-committee representing the sectoral ministries will be part of
the process.
Eligible Imports
a) Public Sector
Modified ICB Procedures
For contracts for eligible goods (excluding commonly traded commodities) above
US$500,000 equivalent per contract, modified ICB procedures as per Para 2.63 and 2.64
of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines will apply.
International Shopping
Eligible goods procured by the public sector (excluding commonly traded
commodities) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International
Shopping, as per Para 3.5 and 3.6 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, for imports less
than the equivalent of US$500,000 per contract.
b) Private Sector
Goods imported by the private sector (excluding commonly traded commodities)
estimated to cost less than US$2 million equivalent per contract may be procured in
accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to IDA.
c) Eligible Commodities
Imports of commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to IDA as per Para 2.65 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
25



Prior Review
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods will be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost US$2 million equivalent or more each. With respect to each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2 million or more, the procedures set forth
in Para 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines will apply. All
other contracts will be subject to post review.
DISBURSEMENTS
Documents showing the procurement and payment for goods will be accumulated
by the Office. On the basis of these documents, the Office will prepare a statement of
expenditures up to US$2 million per contract for submission to IDA. The documents
verifying the eligibility of the imports will be held in the Central Bank and may be
audited by IDA. Once disbursements in foreign exchange are made to the Central Bank,
the local currency counterpart will be deposited in a Government account. This account
will be used to finance the agreed priority program of expenditures and will be monitored
by IDA as part of its supervision of the Credit.
Retroactive financing, not exceeding 20% of the amount of the Credit (SDR
960,000) will be accepted for payments made for imports after April 15, 2001, i.e.
approximately four months prior to the signing of the Credit.
Imports under a single category may not exceed one half of the Credit amount
without prior approval by IDA.
26



