                             Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                      Report No: 25705

                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (IDA-35630)

                                ON A

                               CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6 MILLION

                         TO THE UNION OF THE

                              COMOROS

                               FOR A

                 EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT




                             MAY 20, 2003




AFTP1
Africa Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (KMF)
                        KMF 1 = US$ 0.002183
                         US$ 1 = KMF F458

                        FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1   June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     CURE          Crédit d'Urgence au Redressement Economique
     EERC          Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
     ICR           Implementation Completion Report
     GDP           Gross Domestic Product
     HIPC          Highly Indebted Poor Country
     IMF           International Monteray Fund
     ISS           Interim Support Strategy
     KMF           Comoros Franc
     QAG           Quality Assessment Group
     MOP           Memorandum of the President
     MTR           Mid Term Review
     N/A           Not Applicable
     OAU           Organization of African Unity
     OP            Operational Policy
     PC            Personal Computer
     PCD           Project Concept Document
     PDO           Project Development Objective
     PID           Project Information Document
     PIU           Project Implementation Unit
     PNAC          Pharmacie Nationale Autonome des Comoros
     PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
     PSR           Project Status Report
     SMP           Staff Monitored Program
     TF            Trusd Fund
     USD/US$       United States Dollar

                 Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
      Country Manager/Director:    Hafez Ghanem
       Sector Manager/Director:    Philippe Le Houerou
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Colin Scott

                                          COMOROS
                            Emergency Economic Recovery Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Expenditure Table                                                       29

Project ID: P074054                                                      Project Name: Comoros Emergency Economic
                                                                         Recovery Credit
Team Leader: Wolfgang Fengler                                            TL Unit: AFTP1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 20, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Comoros Emergency Economic Recovery Credit               L/C/TF Number: IDA-35630
   Country/Department: COMOROS                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);
                            Macroeconomic management (P); Decentralization (S); Other social
                            protection and risk management (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/09/2001                                        Effective: 09/18/2001              09/18/2001
   Appraisal:    06/21/2001                                            MTR:
    Approval:    08/02/2001                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/PLANNING COMMISSION
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Hafez M. H. Ghanem                                  Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                              Cadman Atta Mills
Team Leader at ICR:        Wolfgang Fengler                                    Christos Kostopoulos
ICR Primary Author:        Colin S. Scott; Vincent Da Cruz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Country background: The Union of the Comoros comprises the three Comoros Islands that declared
independence from France in 1975: Moheli, Anjouan, and Grande Comore. The central government is
located on Grande Comore. For many years, the situation in Comoros has been marked by poverty, poor
governance and extreme political instability, including numerous coups and coup attempts. In 1997,
conditions deteriorated further: military authorities in Anjouan, the poorest of the islands, attempted to
secede and both the central government and the Organization of African Unity imposed a blockade,
completely isolating the island. Differences over how to proceed sparked internal disputes on Anjouan,
including outbreaks of violence, but negotiations and attempts to forcibly re-integrate Anjouan failed.
This failure in turn increased tensions on the island of Grande Comore, leading to the overthrow of the
central government by Colonel Azali Assoumane in March 1999.

Subsequently, negotiations made progress and, in February 2001, all parties signed a Framework
Agreement for National Reconciliation in the town of Fomboni. This agreement outlined a path to
reunification and democratization of the country, including a transition period, a referendum on a new
constitution, a government of national unity and finally elections in early 2002. Hopes that real change
was possible were high, including among much of the World Bank country team.

In Comoros, per capita GDP has fallen throughout much of the past decade and now is below US$400.
Social services delivery, never very good, deteriorated further during the secession, particularly in
Anjouan. In 1998, the Bank suspended disbursements due to non-payment of arrears, but by January
2000, the new central government cleared arrears to the Bank, leading to the resumption of Bank
disbursements and a review of the country's portfolio.

World Bank strategy: In November 2000, the Bank adopted an Interim Support Strategy (ISS) with three
scenarios: in case of renewed violence, the Bank would suspend its activities; if there was no change to
the situation, the Bank would only carry out an infrastructure project, capacity building and assist the
government to define a development vision; and in the high case scenario, the Bank would go ahead
with an Emergency Recovery Credit, eventually leading to a PRSP and debt relief under HIPC. The high
case would be triggered by (i) substantial progress in public management on all three islands, (ii)
agreement on an integrated budget for the three islands, and (iii) evidence of Government transfers to,
and Government expenditures in, Anjouan. This would imply tangible and decisive progress towards
national reconciliation.

High case scenario: A Bank mission to the Comoros in March 2001, just after the Framework Agreement
was signed, concluded that there had been sufficient progress to warrant the high case scenario. At an
informal donors' conference in July 2001, the government presented a US$12.8 million Emergency
Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program of which the Bank was to fund about half. The
Bank's country team showed strong support for the government's reconciliation strategy and rapidly
prepared a US$6 million Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) under OP 8.50. This credit was
approved by the Board of Directors in August 2001. Six days later the local government in Anjouan was
overthrown in a coup. The Bank sent a verification mission which concluded that the new authorities in
Anjouan would continue to support the Framework Agreement and went ahead with the implementation
of the credit.

EERC objectives: The Memorandum of the President states that the credit's main objective was to
finance the critical transition out of the secessionist crisis. The credit would do this by supporting a
government economic recovery program which intended to alleviate distress among the poor and
support the process of national reconciliation. This corresponded to the view of the government that the
secession was the result of poverty on the islands concerned. Therefore, in the government's program,
(i) a poverty-reduction component was to address the root causes of the conflict, (ii) a decentralization
component was to pave the way for the outcome of the transition, allowing the country to function as
three islands with largely autonomous governments, and (iii) a national reconciliation component was to
pay for meetings, travel and seminars, thereby supporting the transition process itself. The MOP also



                                                      - 2 -

states that credit was intended to signal that the international financial institutions were willing to help the
Comoros and to leverage additional donor funding.

Consistency with strategies: The Emergency Recovery Credit was a central element of the Bank's
Interim Support Strategy for the Comoros, which stated that there "can be no sustainable growth and
poverty reduction in Comoros without a solution to the separatist crisis and a move to a broadly accepted
government." Its objectives complemented the Framework Agreement and corresponded to the
government's Policy for National Reconciliation. The Bank's Interim Support Strategy was therefore
"closely aligned with the objectives and sequencing of priorities of peace accords and rehabilitation plans
agreed to by parties to the conflict" (OP 2.30 `Development Cooperation and Conflict').

High risk: In practice, the credit was to allow the Bank to back a largely political transition process that
seemed to offer the best chance in years to pull the country out of an ever-worsening crisis. Even though
this process was supported by the military rulers and opposition of both Comoros and Anjouan, the Bank
was well aware that investing in it meant taking a high risk. In particular, the outcome of the transition
was far from clear and the track record of the Comoros was extremely poor. The risk that the national
reconciliation process could stall or reverse was stated in the MOP. The only safeguard mentioned,
however, was to ensure that all stakeholders confirmed their support for the reconciliation process before
the project was formulated.

Choice of instrument: For this operation, the Bank chose an Emergency Credit under OP 8.50 and
adapted it to the circumstances. The Comoros did not qualify for a credit under OP 8.60 and, as speed
was crucial, the situation required a fast-disbursing instrument. Yet, in light of the track record of
Comoros, and particularly Anjouan, the country team added controls to the standard requirements of OP
8.50. Disbursements were to be made in three installments, dependent on the achievement of key
milestones in the transition and satisfactory financial management. External audits were to be carried out
for both imports and programs and the government's spending plan was binding, with changes in the
allocation requiring no-objection from the Bank. Implementation was to follow World Bank procurement
and disbursement guidelines as well as procedures to be established by the implementing agency.
Drawing on the experience of Burundi, these measures were defined in a supplemental letter to the
Development Credit Agreement. The Bank undertook to supervise the project closely.

Indicators: Emergency Recovery Loans under OP 8.50 are designed to finance only a positive list of
imports identified as necessary to a well defined recovery program. In this case, it had been agreed that
the proceeds of the credit would be used for projects and activities as listed in the government's
Emergency Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program. The government's program had no
logical framework matrix and was largely defined by activities and outputs rather than outcomes.
Assumptions about causal relationships between national reconciliation, decentralization, poverty
reduction, secession, and the transition did not have to be articulated. The absence of targets and
indicators in the government's program made the evaluation of the outcomes much more difficult.
However, this absence of indicators was a reflection of the limited information available at the stage of
the project design and the result of the need to implement the program rapidly. Similarly, the credit
documents do not state explicitly what would indicate that the transition was completed, although there
was a general understanding that the objective would be achieved if the Framework Agreement was
successfully implemented. With hindsight, the objectives should have been more specific.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.




                                                     - 3 -

3.3 Original Components:
The credit's MOP does not contain formal components. However, the borrower agreed with the Bank to
use the Comoros EERC to finance: i) poverty reduction, ii) decentralization, and iii) national
reconciliation, and the spending program was divided into these three components. For poverty reduction
and decentralization, funds were allocated to specific projects which the borrower and authorities on the
three islands had identified. In Anjouan, an ad hoc survey was undertaken to determine priorities. The
Technical Annex and Supplemental Letter included a matrix (see Annex 2 Project cost and financing)
defining how much money was to be spent for what kind of project on which island. Funds for national
reconciliation were used at the central level.

Emergency program components not financed by the EERC: In the government's Emergency
Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program, "national reconciliation" also included the
reinsertion of young militia in Anjouan (financed by a Bank Post-Conflict Grant) and elections (financed
by the European Union). A fourth component, "Economic Recovery and Financial Stabilization" covered
payment of domestic arrears, wages and voluntary separation expenditures, which were to be financed
by other donors. The government's program therefore offered a comprehensive package of measures to
assist the transition out of the crisis.

Spending plan: Beyond the allocation to components and islands, the MOP does not state what the funds
are to be spent on. Details are contained in the Letter of Policy for National Reconciliation, which
proposes the government's action plan to the donors. Given the sensitivity of fund allocation to the
different islands, establishing how much was to be spent on each island before disbursement was an
important factor for successful implementation. The spending plan was said to be binding for the
borrower and any changes were subject to no-objection by the Bank. In practice, this left considerable
flexibility, particularly as assumptions about how the activities would further the objectives were not
made explicit. This design constituted an additional risk and therefore depended to a considerable extent
on an unwritten agreement between the Bank and the borrower. Issues related to this risk were discussed
within the Bank, and the prevailing view was that, on the basis of the recent track record, the borrower
could implement this satisfactorily.

Distress among the poor (first component, 50% of credit funds) was to be alleviated through the
rehabilitation and equipment of schools and hospitals, through water and rural development projects. The
institutional transition to a decentralized state (second component, 30% of credit funds) was to be
assisted by constructing and rehabilitating administrative buildings and re-allocating or training civil
servants. Assistance in carrying out the technical dimensions of the reconciliation process (third
component, 15% of credit funds) covered unspecified activities of the commission charged with
implementing the Framework Agreement and the establishing of a new fiscal structure. For this
component, flexibility was an important feature as it could not be predicted with certainty what kind of
actions it was going to take to attain the overall objective of assisting the transition process. The project
implementation unit's running cost (another 5% of credit funds) as well as further support of the
implementing partner were also officially budgeted under the heading of reconciliation.

Implementing Agency: For the implementation of the activities to be financed by the credit, the
government was to create a project implementation unit coordinated by the Director General for
Planning. The General Directorate for Planning (later renamed Planning Commission) reports directly to
the President. Two sub-committees consisting of representatives from ministries and other government
agencies were responsible for mobilization and control of funds and implementation respectively. A
sub-unit replicating this structure was to be set up on the island of Anjouan in order to implement projects
there. This decentralization reflected the large number of activities to be carried out in Anjouan and took
into account the fact that the administration of Anjouan was de facto operating independently from the
central government. Both units were to be audited by internal and external auditors.




                                                      - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The credit's MOP does not contain formal components. In the government's spending program, funds
were re-allocated between the components and to other activities with the no-objection of the Bank.
These re-allocations were notably to respond to overcome obstacles in the privatization of the port and to
make up for delays in other donors' fulfilling their commitments on financing civil servants' salary
arrears.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
No Quality at Entry rating was carried out by the Quality Assurance Group. This ICR found the following
features of the credit unsatisfactory: the spending program's emphasis on activities rather than
outcomes, the absence of indicators to measure how much progress has been made and the fact that
assumptions about how the activities were to serve the general objective were generally not made
explicit. Different aspects of the transition - its "technical dimensions", implementation of the Framework
Agreement, reunification, agreement on a joint budget and national reconciliation - were not clearly
distinguished and their relationship not spelt out. These shortcomings lead to different interpretations of
the overall objective and, particularly on the part of the government, to unrealistic expectations of the
role the credit would play in fostering reconciliation.

Satisfactory were: the overall objective and rationale as stated in the MOP, the rapid response of the
credit to an urgent need (very satisfactory), the high level of government input into the planning and
design of the activities to be carried out, and the appropriate flexibility of design with additional controls
for a high-risk post-conflict transition. Bearing in mind the time constraints and trade-offs and that the
chosen instrument had to be tailored to the specific situation of Comoros, the overall Quality at Entry is
rated marginally satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
State of the transition: The uses to which the counterpart funds have been put have produced largely
positive results. In terms of the transition, however, the outcome is mixed. At the closure of the credit in
December 2002 and at the time of writing of the ICR, in March 2003, the transition process, as envisaged
by the Framework Agreement, had not been completed. On the one hand, considerable progress had
been made: the constitution had been adopted in a referendum, and presidents had been elected for the
Union and for each of the three islands. Anjouan, the principal focus of the EERC, was peaceful, had
overcome its isolation, and was once again participating in the federation. These outcomes, to which the
credit contributed, are substantial successes. On the other hand, new lines of confrontation between the
four entities in the Comoros had emerged, particularly between the newly formed government of Grande
Comore and the central government located on the same island. Specific responsibilities of the four
governments remained a point of contention and much of how the new federal country will work
remained to be determined, let alone implemented. Whether the institutional situation of the Comoros is
better today than two years ago is debatable, but it is certain that the secessionist crisis has not been
overcome. Not only is the implementation of the Framework Agreement not complete, but it has also
become apparent that a full transition will require more than the implementation of that agreement.

Achievement of EERC objective: The credit's stated objective - financing the critical transition out of the
secessionist crisis - has only been partially achieved. The project had a positive impact on poverty and it
supported the transition for as long as it lasted. Nevertheless, in light of the state of political instability at
the close of the credit, the ICR could not rate the outcome higher than marginally satisfactory. Even so,
the political situation may still be resolved and the project may yet prove to have been an important
contributing factor.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Financing the transition: Through its three components, the credit successfully provided means and
incentives to move forward with the transition process. It was also central to the Bank's dialogue with the



                                                        - 5 -

Comorian governments and used in creative ways to overcome obstacles that had not been anticipated.
As intended, the impact was particularly strong in Anjouan, where the poverty reduction component was
able to address urgent problems that had arisen during years of isolation. The achievements financed by
the credit gave considerable support to the view the island had something to gain from re-engaging with
the central government and thereby helped the passing of the new constitution in a referendum. Most of
the benefits of the decentralization component are not yet visible, as the major activities involve
construction that is as yet unfinished. For the national reconciliation component, results are less tangible,
but by helping to finance meetings and studies for the commission and committee charged with
implementing the transition, the credit generally helped to move the process forward.

In the absence of indicators, the contribution of the activities financed by the credit to poverty reduction,
decentralization or national reconciliation cannot be quantified here. The following paragraphs highlight
the main outputs. An overview of the large number of separate activities can be seen in the expenditure
table in Annex 8. In general terms, although some of the activities funded seem somewhat removed
from the objectives of the project, the vast majority have produced useful outputs and also had an
intrinsic value through confidence building.

Poverty reduction: Poverty reduction is not just subservient to the political transition but an important
objective in its own right. Of the credit's funds, 47% were allocated to this component and have achieved
substantial successes. The spending program contained projects in four sectors: health, education,
water, and rural development, the latter including a project for the safety of fishermen. Almost all the
projects have been completed as planned. Half the poverty reduction funds were allocated to the island
of Anjouan, where most projects have been completed rapidly and with high visibility. More than 900
people were employed on the island in the process. A rapid survey conducted by the implementing
partner in Anjouan covered 0,5% of the adult population. It claims that almost half the respondents had
heard of the project, just over ten percent said the implementing partner responded to their needs and
almost a quarter saw work being carried out in their village. Out of the latter, over a third said they had
been consulted on the project and over 90% expressed their satisfaction with the work.

Most of the poverty reduction funds were spent in the health sector (39%), with the purchase of medicine
and medical gas, medical equipment, ambulances, the rehabilitation of hospitals and setting up a cholera
camp during an epidemic. Much of this has been completed and is operational in the respective
hospitals. The positive impact of this is evident: ambulances reduce delays in attending emergencies;
new dentistry, ultra-sound and surgical equipment reduces the need to travel between islands for
check-ups and treatment. In the education sector (28%), schools were built or rehabilitated and
equipment purchased on the island of Anjouan, and again, the improvement of learning conditions is
obvious. Much-needed teacher training, however, does not seem to have taken place. One major project
(12% of total poverty reduction expenditures) to supply water to 17 villages on Grande Comore is still
being completed, suffering from serious delays. On Anjouan a multitude of small infrastructure projects
covering canalization and minor road works have been completed (7.5% of total poverty reduction
expenditures). Also under the heading of rural development, a project on all three islands that intends to
reduce the losses of fishermen at sea has been financed (12%). Unfortunately, rather than buying rescue
boats, the funds were largely used to set up sophisticated communication facilities which are likely to
become redundant once a mobile phone network is operational. Ratings for individual projects would
seem to cover the whole range from very satisfactory to unsatisfactory and would require the definition of
indicators and a beneficiary evaluation. On the basis of available information the poverty reduction
component appears satisfactory overall.

Decentralization: The funds of this component (18% of the credit's funds) were mostly intended for the
construction and rehabilitation of public buildings, to finance redeployment of civil servants to Anjouan
and training for civil servants on Grande Comore. The largest single project (42% of the decentralization
expenditures) is the construction of an office complex for the administration of Moheli, which in
December 2002 was yet to start. A similar amount has been invested in the building, rehabilitation and
equipment of four administrative buildings on Anjouan, where work is still ongoing. Much of the rest of
decentralization funds (13%) was used by the island governments to buy vehicles (eight in total) for their
administrations. As much of the major work is still being completed, rating this component would be



                                                     - 6 -

premature. Given the prevalence of cars among the outputs produced so far, the decentralization
component is unsatisfactory at this stage.

National reconciliation: The funds for national reconciliation (4% of the credit) supported the Committee
and Commission responsible for the implementation of the Framework Agreement. These played a
central role in the transition process when it was on track, and the credit helped both overcome financial
obstacles and provided technical assistance in line with its objective. Because part of the budget was
earmarked for their activities, Committee and Commission wanted the amount to be simply disbursed to
them. However, the implementing agency kept control over the funds, initially paying them out against
running costs and expenses, later only against specific outcomes, such as technical assistance on the
distribution of public property and the establishment of a joint budget. Despite the progress and
achievements in the area of national reconciliation, given that the transition has not been completed, this
component cannot be rated higher than marginally unsatisfactory.

The running costs of the Project Management Unit (4% of the total credit funds), including audits, were
formally included under the heading of national reconciliation, which also covered support to the planning
commission of which the PIU was part (5% of the total credit funds). This included salaries of staff
contracted for the project, rehabilitation of offices on the three islands and the purchase of vehicles and
equipment. Rating: satisfactory.

Civil service salary arrears: Payment of civil service salary arrears was part of the government's recovery
program, but belonged to a component that other donors were to finance. Following delays in the release
of those funds, the Bank agreed to 10% of the total credit fund's being used for this purpose. Rating:
satisfactory.

Port privatization: In order to assist privatization, and with agreement of the Bank, the implementing
partner set another 10% of the credit's funds aside to compensate port workers of the state maritime
transport company. These funds came out of the national reconciliation and poverty reduction budgets
and were a crucial factor in the successful privatization of the main port on Grande Comore. At the time
of writing, the privatization of the port in Anjouan was still object of dispute so that funds for port workers
there have not been disbursed there yet. Rating: satisfactory.

Economic recovery: According to IMF data, the EERC was one of the main reasons why real GDP
growth increased from -1.1 percent in 2000 to 1.9 percent in 2001 (the lifting of the embargo on Anjouan
and favorable export prices being the other important factors) and remained at an estimated 2.5 percent
in 2002. The contribution of the EERC was mainly through increased commercial activity and
construction. Rating: satisfactory.

Other donors: As intended, the engagement of the Bank did send a clear signal that it is willing to support
the transition process in the Comoros. Other donors did contribute to the government's Emergency
Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program but the credit did not succeed in leveraging the
additional donor funding it intended. Rating: marginally unsatisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
With the exception of minimal cost recovery at hospitals and clinics, the investments of this project do
not produce revenue that could be used to quantify the economic rate of return. No data is available on
the development of such revenues. As an indication of efficiency, the auditors have found prices paid for
goods and services reasonable and costs were comparable to those in similar conflict affected countries.
The project implementation unit's running costs represented 4% of the credit's funds and an additional
5% of the credit's funds spent on investments in the Planning Commission cross-subsidized the PIU to
some extent. This is justified, given the multitude of projects and the high speed at which they were
completed. The efficiency of the use of resources is rated satisfactory.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A



                                                       - 7 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The credit did not include an explicit institutional development objective. Nevertheless the experience of
implementing a credit of this type which gives a large amount of autonomy to the implementing agency
has had a modest capacity-building effect, particularly for island authorities which have not previously
implemented projects of this type. The Planning Commission, to which the project implementation unit
belongs, has become one of the few institutions of Comoros that effectively function in a deconcentrated
way. Rating: satisfactory.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No major exogenous factors affected the credit's implementation. Occasional delays in contracting and
procurement, disagreements between authorities and beneficiaries, and bad weather meant that some of
the deadlines, implementing partners set for their projects, were not met.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The major factor affecting implementation and leading to the limited attainment of its objective in
supporting the transition was ongoing political instability and disagreements between the central and
island governments. Although difficulties had been anticipated, it is clear that an emergency credit alone
cannot assist a transition process if the parties involved have no shared or compatible vision of where
the transition is to lead to.

In addition to that, several governments have pressed for re-allocation of funds to items for which the
emergency recovery program was not intended.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency drafted and implemented its own procurement guidelines, but these were only
formally approved by the Bank in December 2002. In a charged political atmosphere, differences
between islands at times created tensions between the central and Anjouan project implementation units.
Whereas it occasionally required Bank intervention to resolve the issues, such tensions did not have a
negative impact on project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no delays in disbursements. Due to exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the
Comorian Franc, commitments exceed available funds by 3%.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of a project in the context of a conflict-affected country is likely to take a different form that
in a conventional development project. Since the objective is supporting the transition, it is the
confidence and trust built through the project with its contribution to the sustainability of peace which
counts. Many of the interventions were never intended to be orthodox sustainable development. Others
may prove sustainable in the conventional sense. Most of the investments under the poverty reduction
and decentralization components were in buildings and equipment, which have been or will be taken
over by the relevant sections of the public administration. Where ownership for these is high, it is
generally very likely that their integration will not pose any particular problems. Some specific
investments will probably soon be at risk: one potential difficulty is that the continued availability of
trained operators for some of the medical equipment is not guaranteed. Even more importantly,
declarations of intent that particular attention will be paid to maintenance will need to be translated into
practice, which for some of the more sophisticated equipment will require capacity-building and technical
assistance. Maintenance has been a very weak point in the Comoros in the past and much equipment
has been lost due to neglect.




                                                       - 8 -

The most crucial factor affecting the progress towards the objective of assisting the country out of the
secessionist crisis, however, will be political instability. Whereas there has been no renewed violence
and all parties continue to declare their commitment to the reconciliation process, confrontations
between political leaders over the control of resources and institutions continue. The achievements of
this project in terms of confidence-building are by their nature fragile and could easily be undone for
political calculations. As much as one would hope that the credit will have made a lasting contribution to
the country's transition towards a sustainable institutional arrangement acceptable to all parties, at this
stage, given the current political situation, this seems unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Emergency Economic Recovery Credit was designed as a one-off operation, and no follow-up of this
type is planned. Buildings and equipment are being or will be managed by the relevant island
administrations and ministries. As the Emergency Credit was essentially implemented by permanent staff
of the planning commission, these will be able to continue monitoring the ongoing activities even after
the closure of the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Despite a very uncertain environment, the Bank task team showed responsiveness to clients' need in
rapidly formulating a relatively simple, quick-disbursing operation aimed at supporting the transition. The
team pre-appraised the credit in March/April 2001, negotiations took place in July 2001 and the first
installment was disbursed in September 2001, undoubtedly providing a contribution to the ongoing
stabilization efforts. The team took relevant experience for this type of credit into account and included
more control mechanisms than usual into the design. While recognizing that some quality was lost due to
the time pressure for the preparation of the credit, Bank performance at the lending stage is rated
satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank maintained a close dialogue with the authorities in order to deal with difficulties of the transition
process that affected the implementation. In fact, throughout the credit's lifetime, different aspects of the
implementation became blocked and required interventions from Bank staff. As the Bank has no office in
the Comoros, four supervision missions were undertaken for this purpose within less than a year. These
missions always included Anjouan and on two occasions Moheli. Bank staff invested much time and
energy in the project, building a good working relationship with borrower and the implementing partners.
Their responses to the changing demands of the transition showed flexibility and were, with the exception
of the approval of the procedures manual, timely. PSR ratings, based on achievement of the transition's
milestones and on the financial management of the project, were carried out in January 2002, May 2002
and February 2003 and were reasonable, except that the May ratings for national reconciliation and risks
now seem optimistic in view of the breakdown of the transition process in July 2002. The supervision is
rated highly satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The emergency credit was implemented under the high case scenario of the Bank's Interim Support
Strategy and all disbursements were made when the underlying assumption that the reconciliation was
on track was justified. In the middle of 2002 the situation deteriorated rapidly, leaving the emergency
credit without a formal strategic framework. Since then, the country team has been in the process of
updating its strategy to reflect the difficulty of the current situation in the Comoros. The overall
performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
There was close co-operation between the Bank and the Borrower in designing the project and the
relevant ministries and agencies were consulted. The government showed a high commitment to the



                                                        - 9 -

project and took the lead in allocating the funds to its poverty reduction priorities. The major shortcoming
was that the government's emergency recovery program did not make explicit how the activities to be
financed would contribute to the overall objective and did not include any indicators to measure its
success. The Borrower's performance in the credit's preparation is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The central government appointed its Planning Commission as the implementing agency. The central
government and island governments generally gave good support to the projects funded by the credit but
have been unable to complete the transition and stalled the reconciliation process between them. As
mentioned above, several governments pressed for re-allocation of funds to items for which the
emergency recovery program was not intended, particularly vehicles. Rating: unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The set-up of having the Central Planning Commission implement projects on Grande Comore, Moheli
and at the central level and the Anjouan Planning Commission implementing those on Anjouan worked
well for the implementation, despite some communication problems between the two commissions.
Projects were implemented effectively and efficiently, and much faster than any previous Bank projects.
Despite the complexity of the project, the implementing partner was able to effectively absorb
disbursements at a rate of US$400,000 a month. Both commissions were capable, highly committed and
worked hard for the success of the credit. No formal reporting was instituted, but the commissions
produced reports for visiting supervision missions, including expenditure tables. Two internal and the first
of two external audits have concluded that financial management has generally followed the agreed
terms and that checks and procedures of the project management were acceptable. However, a World
Bank procurement expert who was part of the December 2002 mission has expressed serious
reservations on the procurement of several items which are yet to be discussed. On the assumption that
these questions will be resolved, the implementing partner's performance is rated satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Bearing in mind the reservation expressed above, the overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.



8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Lessons for the ICR process:
1. The standard ICR format, its timing and assumptions may not be best suited to an emergency project
    of this nature. It may be too soon to judge the outcome of this EERC since a peaceful transition may
    still emerge from the current crisis. Sustainability in particular takes on a different meaning in this
    context. Given the trade-offs made in this kind of project, orthodox assessments may not be useful
    or fair.
2. In the changeable context, the process of generating and drafting the ICR has been as valuable as
    the final report, bringing increased attention on the Bank's strategy and future interventions.

8.2 Lessons for Comoros:
1. In the Comoros there is still no shared understanding of what the political transition out of the crisis
    and national reconciliation mean in practice. Reaching such an understanding is an important
    pre-requisite for moving these processes forward, which is ultimately dependent on political will.
2. The EERC has shown that service delivery and infrastructure investments can be carried out
    effectively even in the difficult context of the Comoros, as long as the implementation and
    governance of the credit meet the highest level of standards.
3. The EERC emphasized the need for improved communications between development agents on the
    different islands of the country. It is also desirable for them to make greater efforts to resolve
    problems internally before they are brought to the attention of the donor.




                                                      - 10 -

8.3 Lessons for the Bank:

1. A credit of this kind involves a number of trade-offs. Above all it promises high gain but is entered at
     high risk. It implies managing tensions between speed and quality both at entry and in supervision. It
     means mobilizing development instruments in a highly political context over which the Bank has
     limited control.
2. Credits do not operate in isolation. Particularly in volatile strategic contexts such as that of the
     Comoros, the relationship between the Bank's operations and the Bank's country strategy needs to
     be continuously monitored and evaluated.
3. This operation shows the need for an instrument allowing rapid and flexible disbursement of funds,
     while maintaining some control over the way the funds are spent. OP 8.50 was used to cover both,
     but in order to do so, Bank staff had to make a number of compromises. Formally shifting the
     emphasis of control from import receipts to actual expenditure of counterpart funds would reduce
     unnecessary bureaucracy and allow project documents to deal more immediately with actual
     objectives and expected outcomes.
4. More specifically, where a credit is linked to an emergency recovery program, it is important that it is
     made explicit how and to what extent the activities are expected to contribute to the overall objective
     and that suitable indicators and procedures are defined. The development objective, in particular,
     needs to be precise and its implications clear to all concerned. Even where not formally required, a
     logical framework matrix and an operational manual would be one way of ensuring that everybody
     shares the same understanding of the project, its objectives and what success would mean.
5. A complex and flexible project of this type carried out in a volatile political environment requires
     regular supervision and attention. It therefore comes at a heavy price in variable costs to the Bank,
     particularly if managed from a distance.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1 Introduction

In 1997, the secession of the island of Anjouan and the ensuing separatist crisis plunged the Comoros
into political turmoil.

For nearly three years, the situation in Anjouan was difficult, characterized by repeated internal clashes
among opposing separatist groups, and compounded by an economic embargo imposed by the
international community. This situation seriously destabilized the island's fragile economy and was partly
responsible for the deterioration of its inhabitants' already difficult living conditions.

The calamitous consequences of that crisis impacted on the other two islands of the Islamic Federal
Republic of the Comoros, Grande Comore and Moheli.

Political efforts to end the secessionist crisis led to the signature of a Framework Agreement for National
Reconciliation on February 17, 2001 by the Government, the Anjouanese authorities, the opposition and
civil society. That agreement provided for the formation of a New Comorian Grouping comprising all the
islands of the archipelago, decentralization and a transition period to enable the country to prepare for
the establishment of the new institutions.

But effective resolution of the crisis required measures in support of economic recovery, rehabilitation
and the reconstruction of the social sectors.

The Comorian Government accordingly drew up a Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program
(RNRP) comprising four main components: poverty reduction, national reconciliation, decentralization
and good governance.




                                                      - 11 -

That program, designed by the Planning Commission (formerly the General Directorate for Planning),
was very ambitious. It addressed almost all the urgent needs identified by the islands and by the sectors
of activity to effectively end the crisis and restore social, economic and political stability to the country.

It was a short-term development program, estimated at approximately US$56 million.

The RNRP was used to draw up the Government's Letter of Policy for National Reconciliation submitted
to the "Friends of the Comoros" conference held in Paris in July 2001 under the aegis of the World Bank.


Through that conference, the Government hoped to obtain special support from partners, friends of the
Comoros, for its efforts to secure national reconciliation, establish new institutions and reduce poverty
during the transition period.

The emergency program for which funding was sought amounted to US$12.8 million, including $800,000
for the social and vocational rehabilitation of young militiamen in Anjouan that were obtained as a
post-conflict donation from the World Bank.

One of the commitments made by the "Friends of the Comoros" at the Paris conference concerned an
Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) Agreement in the amount of US$6 million, which was
signed by the World Bank and the Government in September 2001.

The EERC credit was awarded to finance the import of raw materials and capital goods. Counterpart
funds generated were to be used to finance, in particular, three of the four components of the
Government's emergency program, namely poverty reduction, decentralization and national
reconciliation.

The EERC was overseen by a funds management body, the Emergency Credit Implementation Unit,
which was set up to monitor disbursements and audit activities at the national and island levels. The unit
was chaired by the Planning Commissioner, who was responsible for coordinating all EERC
implementation activities, reporting to the Government and to development partners, signing all
correspondence and authorizing expenditure. In addition to the Planning Commission, which was
responsible for the Unit's coordination, EERC-financed sectors of activity and Anjouanese stakeholders
were represented in the Unit. For the purposes of fund-raising and financial oversight, the Unit was
enlarged to include representatives from the financial sector. Given the particular status of Anjouan at
the start of the project, one internal organization was admitted to participate specifically on that island's
behalf. An EERC implementation committee was set up to facilitate project execution on the island.
That committee's membership was the same as that of the EERC Implementation Unit, but it had wider
powers.

The Chairman of the EERC Implementation Unit was assisted in project coordination tasks by two
permanent management sub-units, one national, based at Moroni, and the other accountable to an
internal organization in Anjouan. The sub-units basically consisted of two senior accountants, one in
Moroni and the other in Anjouan, who worked closely with two technical coordinators acting as technical
assistants to the Chairman of the Unit. Each EERC management sub-unit was responsible for daily
funds management, keeping the accounts used to substantiate the utilization of funds, and providing
auditors with all the documents needed to draw up the necessary audit reports.

In view of the EERC's emergency character, special disbursement provisions, waiving the procedures
usually applicable to World Bank funds, were authorized to ensure that operations were conducted
efficiently.

The purpose of this EERC Final Report is to evaluate credit implementation by analyzing achievements
against the established objectives. The analysis will make it possible to evaluate the performance of
national and donor management teams and of oversight teams, with particular emphasis on the lessons
to be learned.



                                                      - 12 -

This report is in two main parts: the first focuses on EERC objectives and achievements, while the
second attempts to assess and review EERC implementation.

9.2 EERC objectives and achievements

Restatement of EERC objectives

The main EERC objective was to support the national reconciliation process initiated in the Comoros in
2001 while laying the foundations for economic recovery and a post-transition reconstruction program.
The EERC was accordingly designed to finance three priority areas: poverty reduction, decentralization
and national reconciliation.

In the area of poverty reduction, the objective of the emergency credit was to improve the living
conditions of the poorest inhabitants, namely the rural population, by taking high-profile action to address
that population group's priorities. The activities targeted the health, education, water and rural
development sectors. Funds were distributed among the three Comorian islands on the basis of the
criteria of population size and poverty incidence. US$3 million, i.e., 50 percent of the EERC, were
earmarked for the poverty reduction component, with 50 percent allocated to Anjouan, 40 percent to
Grande Comore and 10 percent to Moheli.

In the area of decentralization, the specific objective pursued was balanced investment in
administration. Funds were allocated for public service activities and the rehabilitation, construction and
equipment of administrative buildings, depending on the institutional needs identified by each island in
conformity with the principles of administrative and economic decentralization practiced by the Comorian
State. US$1.8 million, i.e., 30 percent of the EERC, were earmarked for the decentralization component,
with 50 percent allocated to Anjouan, 33 percent to Moheli and 17 percent to Grande Comore.

In the area of national reconciliation, the objectives were to provide financial support for the activities
of the two bodies involved in the process, the Monitoring Committee and the Tripartite Commission;
support the units responsible for drawing up the budget; ensure efficient and transparent EERC
management; and provide institutional backstopping for the Planning Commission, which coordinates the
Reconstruction and National Reconciliation Program for the three islands and activities financed from
external resources mobilized by the Government. US$1.2 million, i.e., 20 percent of the EERC, were
earmarked for the national reconciliation component, with 42 percent allocated to transition bodies, 33
percent to management, expenditure monitoring and budget support, and 25 percent to support for
planning.

Evaluation of activities carried out set against initial objectives (EERC impact)

To attain the three specific emergency credit objectives restated above, activities were defined and
carried out on the three islands and on behalf of the Union (see the annexed "Expenditure Table"). An
analysis of the results obtained in each area will be used to measure the impact of achievements in
relation to each objective pursued and the links between the various objectives.

EERC poverty reduction results

Various EERC impact assessments among recipients of funds have shown that the poverty reduction
activities financed helped considerably to improve the living conditions of the target population groups by
rehabilitating and rebuilding social sectors, financing revenue-generating activities (RGAs), and creating
jobs in businesses.

In the health sector, activities financed on all three islands helped to enhance access to health care
services, improve their quality and lower the cost of basic medicines (see the report of the country's drug
procurement agency, Pharmacie Nationale Autonome des Comores, PNAC). The improvement of the



                                                     - 13 -

existing infrastructure and technical capability of hospitals resulted in better patient care and treatment of
diseases, especially in emergency cases such as the January 2002 cholera epidemic. EERC funds were
also used for initial and further training of medical and paramedical personnel, to ensure that they are
capable of using the tools now available to meet healthcare expectations.

In the education sector, the activities carried out made it possible to rehabilitate run-down schools,
equip some regions that had not received funding under the Education III project (financed by IDA) with
the education facilities required for the children's education, and provide educational materials and
school supplies to all pupils.

In the sanitation and water supply sector, on the one hand the EERC was used to fund major projects
that have opened up a number of remote villages in Anjouan to facilitate the movement of goods and
persons and, on the other hand, the investments have helped to solve the problems of access to drinking
water in the Mbadjini Ouest region of Grande Comore, which will probably lead to a reduction in the
disastrous consequences of water shortages on health conditions and a resumption of agricultural
activities in that region.

In the rural development sector, the activities funded played a part in reducing the extensive use of
firewood by the population and in regenerating the Anjouanese forest, thereby improving the protection
of the environment in which Comorians live. Action to develop RGAs was taken in order to create jobs
for people there in search of means to meet their daily needs. The most important project funded in the
rural development sector concerned the safety of fishermen at sea. The purchase and installation of
fixed maritime communication facilities on the three islands and the provision of VHF and GPS wireless
sets to fishermen will enable the authorities to locate fishermen lost at sea, thus ensuring minimum
safety for the profession and reducing the high loss of life in this population category each year.

All the above poverty reduction activities contribute implicitly to the attainment of the broader objective
of national reconciliation in that they meet the most urgent social needs, which is proof of the State's
determination to resolve major problems facing the population. The socioeconomic difficulties that beset
the most vulnerable sections of Comorian society no doubt did much to fuel the secessionist crisis.
Consequently, a prerequisite for resolving the crisis is to address the population's priority needs.

EERC decentralization results

In the area of decentralization, EERC provided support for decentralized institutional bodies in order to
set up a viable administration for each island and to deconcentrate centralized services in Moroni.
Measures were taken to provide Anjouan and Moheli, the islands that were institutionally less developed,
with the necessary means (buildings and equipment) to allow the new bodies to function.

The activities financed helped to solve some of the operational problems of the new autonomous
administrations. The new administrative bodies already set up in the islands (the president's office and
the ministries) were provided with vehicles, computer hardware and other equipment needed to enable
them to serve the public. Such equipment, almost non-existent in Moheli in 2001, is already allowing the
island to reorganize its administration and make it operational. On Anjouan, where the material available
in 1996, before the crisis, has been destroyed or damaged, the EERC was used to rebuild and strengthen
the administration of the island. Given that the participation of civil servants in the decentralization
process is crucial to its implementation, it was important for the Government to find the means to ease
the crisis for this category of the population (whose salaries had not been paid for 24 months) in order to
rebuild the confidence that they had lost in the State. EERC funds were therefore used to cover one
month of the unpaid salaries of all civil servants, including those in Anjouan, and this has had a positive
effect on their attitude toward the Administration, which thus became more operational.

Like activities under the poverty reduction component, decentralization activities furthered the attainment
of the national reconciliation objective in that they enabled the other two islands to narrow a gap that
seemed to make them lag behind Grande Comore, while allowing the State to set up the necessary




                                                      - 14 -

infrastructure for a decentralized administration on all three islands, which had been at the heart of the
separatist movement's claims. It has indeed been noted that the idea that all decisions were taken in
Moroni (capital of Grande Comore) and that all action was staged there was resented by the inhabitants
of the other islands, especially Anjouan, and constituted one of the deeper causes of the Anjouanese
crisis. Moreover, the Framework Agreement for National Reconciliation rests on the principles of power
sharing, which should result in the exercise of power not only at the center but also in the islands in
accordance with the planned sharing of responsibilities.

EERC national reconciliation results

EERC-funded activities carried out on the three islands did indeed contribute to poverty reduction and
decentralization, which had a positive impact on national reconciliation and permitted the attainment of
part of the main EERC objective, set out in the Letter of Policy, namely, "to support the Comorian
authorities' efforts to meet short-term needs." However, the other part of that objective, which was to lay
"the foundations for a broad recovery and a post-transition reconstruction program," could not be attained
without financing for transition costs.

Progress towards the post-transition period, which must be the hallmark of national reconciliation, implies
that certain priority activities, which cannot be devolved to the islands and are indispensable for the
islands and the Union, must be carried out by the Monitoring Committee and the Tripartite Commissions,
the departments responsible for the budget and the civil service, and the Planning Commission.

Owing to the support that was provided to the transition bodies, i.e., the Monitoring Committee and the
Tripartite Commissions, it was possible to draw up a draft constitution of the Union of the Comoros,
disseminate the draft constitution within the population, organize a referendum on December 23, 2001 on
the adoption of that basic law, and organize and validate the election of the officials to the executive of
the Union and the islands. As a result of these transition bodies' work, technical committees were set up
to draft institutional bills on the sharing of responsibilities and decentralization and national property was
inventoried and appraised. The Monitoring Committee and Tripartite Commissions took action to collect
firearms in Anjouan, so that the Bank-funded rehabilitation project for young people could begin.

EERC funds were used to take a census of civil servants in Anjouan by a national technical team
supported by an international consultant, the design of a computerized personnel-management system
and the creation of budget management tools, especially for the islands. On completion of this work,
civil service regulations for the new institutions should be available and issues relating to the necessary
redistribution of civil servants for the decentralized system should be resolved.

EERC has provided institutional support for the Planning Commission and its liaison services in the three
islands, namely the General Planning Offices. Since State resources are too limited to meet the
operational requirements of the Comorian administrations, EERC funds were used as a contribution to
the financing of the full operation of this body during a period of about 15 months to enable it to
accomplish its development mission which is of paramount importance in the transition period. As a
result, national statistics were available on time; the State's public investment program was drawn up
and its execution was monitored; the PRSP drafting process was launched; and EERC oversight was
ensured. It is likely that activities that it has initiated might be affected when EERC support ends. It is
important to stress here that planning units were set up in the islands only because the EERC provided
practically all the funding for the establishment and initial operating costs of the General Planning
Offices.

9.3 Critical Assessment

With regard to poverty reduction and decentralization, activities were identified for EERC funding by
technicians in the sectors concerned and were validated by each island's authorities. National
reconciliation activities were identified by the beneficiary bodies, and validation by the Planning
Commission is required before any commitment.




                                                         - 15 -

All EERC-funded activities were implemented by technicians in the sectors concerned in
cooperation with the Project Management Unit. Technical responsibility for each funded activity
rested with area technicians, members of the EERC Implementation Unit, who held sole responsibility for
ascertaining the relevance of the activity chosen and for recommending measures likely to prove useful
or necessary in the course of implementation. The main task of the EERC management sub-unit was to
ensure transparent and efficient use of funds in conformity with the allocations and breakdown by sector
and island stipulated in the matrices and with funds management procedures agreed with the World
Bank. As the project management team was supported in the field by the appropriate sector
representatives, the team's work was in most cases considerably facilitated by this division of
responsibilities.

In implementing EERC-funded activities, certain difficulties could not be avoided.

In the health sector, there was some delay in implementation due to late delivery by suppliers.
Compensatory penalties were applied. It should also be noted that action in this sector might have a
reduced impact because there is not enough qualified staff in the hospitals. EERC-funded training
programs were implemented on the island of Anjouan only, and there is a general shortage of human
resources in the health services. Consequently, given the lack of the necessary specialists, all
equipment purchased is not likely to be operational immediately. These problems are expected to be
solved under the IDA-funded Health III project, which has an institutional support component.

With regard to safety at sea, the work of the technical committee, in which the fishing and maritime
safety sectors of all three islands participated, ensured the delivery and operation of the equipment
purchased. Technicians were trained to train fishermen to use the new equipment and information
meetings for fishermen were organized. However, the real impact of that project will become apparent
only when the second component, rescue at sea, which consists in locating and rescuing fishermen in
distress, has been put into practice. The Government should therefore mobilize the necessary resources
rapidly to purchase equipment to implement this component.

With regard to the water component, there was a long nine-month delay in the implementation of the
Makorani water supply project, designed and overseen by the National Infrastructure Directorate. The
national oversight team has major responsibility for progress on that project. Failure by the team to
make relevant recommendations in order to resolve the problems identified made the EERC
management sub-unit's work on this project difficult. The difficulties encountered seemed to have arisen
largely from an erroneous project feasibility study. Furthermore, project implementation was delayed to
some extent by unforeseen events, such as inclement weather and delays in the provision of reservoir
sites by the community.

In the area of decentralization, the impact of EERC-funded investment on two islands, Anjouan and
Moheli, may only be assessed after the technical staff needed to perform the work of each autonomous
administration has been appointed. Although the administrations do require material resources, human
resources are even more necessary. However, there is a shortage of technical staff in the ministries set
up in Moheli and the profiles of most staff in Anjouan do not match job requirements.

With regard to national reconciliation, action which was not initially planned was taken in support of the
privatization of the port enterprise, Socopotrame. That action was taken to meet the Government's
urgent need for funds to enable the State to honor commitments to its partners and lay solid foundations
for the New Comorian Grouping. The EERC was the sole possibility of obtaining cash rapidly because of
its streamlined funds management procedures. On the recommendation of the World Bank and after
approval by the Government, a sum of US$595,000 was mobilized in July 2002 through the EERC to
finance compensation payments to Socopotrame (the port authority) personnel dismissed in the
privatization process and allow the new private operator to take over the company. That contribution
was secured partly by reducing funds initially earmarked to finance expenditure under the national
reconciliation component and partly by transferring an additional $200,000 from funds initially allocated
for poverty reduction in Grande Comore. The construction of a health center, which was to be financed
from those funds, has been taken over by the Health III project.



                                                    - 16 -

With regard to EERC accounts, some difficulties were noted in relation to the accounts closed as at
December 31, 2002. The problems arose from exchange-rate overvaluation and overestimation of
allocations under the various funding categories (surpluses of KMF 24.6 million in Anjouan, 21.6 in
Moheli, 5.17 in Grand Comore and 17.6 under national reconciliation). In Moroni, the US$128,844
gained on foreign exchange was not entered in the EERC account. It is regrettable that this situation was
not discovered earlier and reported to the project management team by PriceWaterhouse-Coopers
(Mauritius), the external auditors who conducted two project account audits. The reports submitted did
not draw the project officers' attention to this error or recommend any relevant measures. To solve the
problem, the project management team made proposals likely to satisfy all the parties concerned and
enable them to ensure the positive impact of the EERC.

Among the lessons learned from the implementation of EERC-funded activities, the most
significant conclusion concerns the criteria for selecting suppliers or contractors. In almost all
EERC-funded procurement operations, emphasis was laid on the criterion of awarding contracts to the
lowest bidder. However, this criterion, although justified in procurement procedures followed by the
World Bank when it is combined with other conditions that allow for optimal choice and savings, was not
entirely appropriate for the EERC project, as there were in that case no provisions to ensure performance
within the required deadlines. As a result, problems arose involving enormous delays by contractors or
suppliers who had deliberately bidden low and offered quite short delivery deadlines to obtain the
contract in full knowledge of the fact that these deadlines were not realistic or feasible. The most
flagrant case was a four-month delay on a four-month delivery deadline for the supply of ambulances by
Peugeot SCIC: this company had proposed the above deadline although it knew from the beginning that
the products were not in stock, that they had to be made to order and that the manufacturing process
would take at least six months.

Funds management experience gained under the national reconciliation component confirmed the
importance of clear and precise programming of activities under each category and of appropriately
itemizing the amounts. It was found that the management of the funds allocated to the other two project
components posed no particular problems, because from the start activities had been defined clearly and
funds allocated precisely. In those components, all the parties involved in the EERC, namely the Bank,
the recipients and the fund managers, agreed on a fund allocation schedule for each disbursement,
specifying in full the nature and financing of each activity to be carried out. As a result, implementation
became a simple routine operation of verification before fund commitment and payment. In the case at
hand, however, no activity was identified with respect to funds allocated under common costs, in
particular for support to the transition bodies, and only an overall amount was indicated. Difficulties
therefore arose in managing these funds, when activities submitted for funding by the technical staff
responsible for the area concerned (financing of meetings) could not be justified on the basis of tangible
results, and the management team had reservations about authorizing payments for such activities,
although they were considered to be a priority.

With assistance from the Bank, however, solutions were later found to this problem encountered by the
management team during the initial months of EERC implementation, and funding of ineligible expenses
was avoided.

Eighty percent of EERC funds were distributed among the islands of the Union of the Comoros. The
method of management used consisted in allocating to each entity a specific amount agreed upon by all
the parties, i.e., the Government, the Bank and the authorities of the islands, for each disbursement (for
the record, there were three such disbursements). Allocations were made on the basis of a set of
activities programmed by the islands in conformity with the basic matrices stipulated in the Letter of
Policy for National Reconciliation. A special sub-account was opened in Anjouan to facilitate
disbursements and it was credited upon each disbursement and distribution with the full amount allocated
to finance the entire set of relevant activities. This sub-account was managed by the EERC
management sub-unit of Anjouan in conformity with instructions from the island's EERC Implementation
Unit. Although the national and the Anjouanese EERC management sub-units fulfilled their missions
completely, problems arose in project monitoring at the national level because there were no functional



                                                      - 17 -

links, predefined by regulatory texts, between the two bodies. Although it is certain that decentralized
management can serve the interests of the Comorian population in the best possible way, the method of
decentralization must be explained clearly to avoid any jurisdictional conflict.

9.4 Conclusion

In conclusion, we consider that the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit has attained the objective of
national reconciliation by contributing to poverty reduction, supporting the decentralization of
administrative bodies of the New Comorian Grouping, and financing the activities of the bodies involved
in the transition process.

Attainment of this objective, to which the Government gives high priority, was possible only with the
assistance of our partner, the World Bank, which supported the Comoros from the beginning of
negotiations for this credit to the completion of the EERC project. In particular, the Bank provided
technical assistance to the Planning Commission in drafting the Letter of Policy for National
Reconciliation and in organizing the "Friends of the Comoros" conference in 2001 in order to help the
Government to mobilize the emergency funds needed for reconstruction. It then undertook to finance
three of the four identified matrices containing the Government's priority needs, assisted the national
team in the technical design of the EERC project and took the necessary steps to facilitate and
accelerate disbursements. Owing to the rapid processing of disbursements, the national management
team began project activities quickly and maintained a normal pace of disbursement throughout. The
Bank conducted regular evaluation missions to ascertain the positive development of the project and to
initiate activity programming for subsequent disbursements. The Bank's EERC oversight team
monitored activity files quite efficiently, while offering support for resolving problems faced by the
national agencies during project implementation, including problems outside the Bank's mandate. We
wish to express here our gratitude to the team.

One of the factors of the EERC's success was the World Bank's flexibility with regard to management
procedures. Pursuant to agreements with the World Bank, streamlined disbursement procedures
complying with the rules of transparency and competitive bidding were followed in managing the
Emergency Credit. Under these procedures the Government committed US$6 million in 15 months and
dispelled doubts about fund absorption capacity in the Comoros. The implementation of the EERC
project has therefore shown that there are ways and means of achieving a faster rate of disbursement of
funds mobilized by the Government from its partners. Funds allocated to the Comoros under
development projects are usually disbursed rather slowly. The IDA-funded FADC, the program with the
best annual implementation rate, has never attained 50 percent of the EERC disbursement level within a
15-month period. It is obvious that a rather efficient form of funds management has been tested in
resolving problems arising from slow disbursement, and the Government is very interested in repeating
this exercise.

In sum, the implementation of the EERC project has made it possible to attain the short-term
development objectives that were established, while concurrently laying the foundations for the
long-term development of the Comoros. Three elements are considered essential: identification
of needs by the beneficiaries, coordination of activities by a competent technical team capable of
harmonizing the aspirations of the autonomous islands within a Comorian Grouping, and use of
an efficient form of management for speedy disbursement.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                                       - 18 -

10. Additional Information

   10.1 Aide-Mémoire of the final evaluation mission of the EERC project by the World Bank in
   the Union of the Comoros, 3-17 December 2002

   Objective and activities

   A World Bank mission team, composed of Mr. Colin Scott (SDVCRP) and Mr. Vincent da Cruz
   (Consultant), in cooperation with Mr. Wolfgang Fengler (AFTP1), visited the Union of the Comoros
   from December 13-17, 2002. The mission's objective was to draw up the Implementation
   Completion Report of the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) project.

   The mission team wishes to thank the Government of the Union and the authorities of the islands for
   their excellent cooperation and for facilitating its task. In particular, it expresses its gratitude to Mrs.
   Koulthoum Djamadar and Mr. Mekame Bouchrane for their hospitality and assistance.

   The mission team met persons participating in the EERC project, including representatives of the
   Government of the Union and of the islands, and those responsible for carrying out the various
   activities. It also saw project achievements on all three islands.

   The mission also visited the Self-Employment Education and Training Center (CEFAE) at Patsy, set
   up by Care International and funded from World Bank post-conflict funds.

   A reconstruction workshop was held at the Planning Commission to discuss observations and further
   steps.

   Observations

   1.      In general, the objectives and the design of the EERC project were reasonable and realistic.
   2.      The timing of the intervention of the EERC project corresponded to crisis-induced needs.
   3.      Poverty-reduction and decentralization activities were generally carried out efficiently under
           the EERC project, despite some problems.
   4.      Results are less clear with regard to the objective of national reconciliation. The EERC project
           supported reconciliation by contributing to poverty reduction and thereby addressing a source
           of tension. However, reconciliation in a broader sense, namely combating secessionism, is an
           essentially political objective requiring more than activities that can be funded under a credit
           like the EERC.
   5.      Attainment of the objective of supporting transition was constrained by political instability and
           the absence of a strategic vision for the Comoros shared by all stakeholders. In this context,
           the World Bank experienced difficulties in updating its strategy for the country.
   6.      The EERC project experience provided significant lessons for the World Bank with regard to
           development in the Comoros in general. It should therefore be shared and discussed with all
           actors concerned.
   7.      With regard to the CEFAE project, the mission team ascertained satisfactory progress toward
           completion, scheduled for June 2003. An independent evaluation of results is planned to
           provide guidance for planning a possible continuation of the project and scheduling its funding.


   Further steps

   1.      The Comoros Government will prepare a draft borrower's final report with inputs from, and in
           consultation with, the three islands, and will submit it to the World Bank by the end of January
           2003.
   2.      The Government proposes to conduct an evaluation of beneficiaries, and the evaluation



                                                     - 19 -

      details are to be discussed with the World Bank.
3.    The World Bank team will draw up a draft completion report by the end of January 2003.
4.    With respect to the CEFAE project, the competent authorities, Care International and the
      World Bank will draft the terms of reference required to initiate an independent evaluation.

10.2 Timeline

    Date                       Comoros                                      Bank

 1997           Anjouan and Moheli secede, military      Bank has five projects and two in
                intervention by center is routed,        preparation
                blockade of Anjouan imposed by OAU
 1998           Federal president Taki dies,             General suspension of disbursements
                "Government of public salvation"         due to arrears
                formed in center, disputes between
                factions in Anjouan erupt into violence
 1999           Antanarivo accord, failure to sign by
                Moheli and Anjouan sparks violence in
                Grande Comore, Army takes power in
                coup, Azali Assoumane becomes
                central president
 2000           Debt service arrears cleared, Coup       Suspension lifted,           EERC
 January        attempt (April)                          Country Portfolio
 to June                                                 Review
 July to        Fomboni accord signed by all islands,    ISS approved           ISS includes
 December       Tripartite Commission established                               conditions for
                                                                                EERC
 2001           Framework Agreement signed in            Comoros moves to       EERC provisional
 January        Fomboni, creditor's meeting in           high case              spending matrix
 to June        Moroni, IMF conducts Article IV                                 drafted, PID
                mission                                                         review
 July to        Donor meeting in Paris, Coloner Bacar                           Formal request
 December       deposes Abderemane in Anjouan in                                for assistance,
                coup, two coup attempts in Anjouan,                             EERC approved,
                one in Moheli, constitutional                                   signed, and
                referendum held on all islands                                  US$3.6million
                                                                                disbursed
 2002           Interim government installed,            PRSP process           Remaining
 January        presidential elections held for Union    launch                 US$2.4 million
 to June        and islands. Failure to agree on budget                         disbursed
                leads to suspension of IMF SMP
                (June)
 July to        Joint budget agreed but agreement                               Credit closed
 December       breaks down (December)                                          (December)




                                                - 20 -

10.3 Map of Comoros




                       - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Given that this credit followed OP 8.50 and provided funds akin to budget support against import
receipts, the progress indicator used was the rate of disbursement. The different installments were
disbursed when major milestones of the transition process were reached. Disbursements were also
dependent on sound financial management as determined in supervision missions. The table below is
based on components and risks listed in the Project Supervision Reports. Components in italics have
been added. The ICR contains more information on risks. Given the types of activities financed by the
credit, it would have been desirable to agree upon an actual logical framework matrix and indicators with
the implementing partner, if only to clarify links between components and outputs and outputs and
objective.

                                   Project Performance Ratings
 Summary Ratings:                   Last       ICR    Compliance with Agreed           NA      NA
 Achievement of PDO                  S          S     Proc. Schedules
                                                      Quality and Reliability of Proc.  S      S
 Implementation Progress             S          S     Admin
 Other Ratings:                                       Safeguard Mgt Performance        NA      NA
 Financial Management                S          S     Other Legal Covenants             S      S
 Financial Performance               NA        NA     WID Impact                       NA      NA
 Project Management                  S          S     Monitoring & Evaluation           S      HS
                Project Component Ratings                         Cost (actual)        Last   Now
 COUNTERPART FUNDS -- POVERTY REDUCTION                                            2.9  S      S
 COUNTERPART FUNDS -- DECENTRALIZATION                                             1.1  S      U
 COUNTERPART FUNDS -- RECONCILIATION                                               0.6  U      U
 COUNTERPART FUNDS -- PROJECT IMPL UNIT                                            0.3 NR      S
 COUNTERPART FUNDS -- SALARY ARREARS                                               0.6 NR      S
 COUNTERPART FUNDS -- PORT PRIVATIZATION                                           0.6 NR      S

Notes: HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; HU=Highly Unsatisfactory; NA=Not
Applicable; NR=Not Rated; Cost in US$ millions

                                         Critical Risks Rating
                                               Last    ICR                              Last   ICR
 Summary Risk Rating                            S       H
 From Outputs to Objective
 RECONCILIATION PROCESS                         S       H      INSTABILITY IN            M      M
 STALLS                                                        ANJOUAN
 LACK OF COMPLEMENTARY                          S        S     POLITICAL                 H      H
 DONOR SUPPORT                                                 INSTABILITY IN
                                                               GRANDE COMORE
 From Components to Outputs



Notes: H=High; S=Substantial; M=Modest; N=Low or Negligible; NA=Not Applicable; NR=Not Rated.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (as per Spending Program in Supplemental Letter No.3)

                                   Anjouan          Moheli        Gde Comore          TOTAL
 Poverty Reduction                          1.5             0.3               1.2            3.0
 Decentralization                           0.9             0.6               0.3            1.8
 Sub-TOTAL                                  2.4             0.9               1.5            4.8
 Coordination and Tri-partite                                                                1.2
 technical committees
 TOTAL                                                                                       6.0

Appraisal (US$ million)

Annex 8 of the ICR contains an expenditure table based on the latest information received from the
implementing partner.

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement
Not applicable




                                                - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               2001                      2    Economics
               March/April

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               2001 May/June             2    Economics
                                              Financial Management
               2001 July                 2    Economics
               2001 August               2    Economics
               2001 October              1    Financial Management

 Supervision
               2001 November              2   Economics                             S               S
               2002 March/April           4   Sector Manager                        HS              S
                                              Economics (2)
                                              Financial Management
               2002 July                  2   Economics
                                              Procurement
               2002 December              3   Economics                             S               S
                                              Health
                                              Procurement

 ICR
               2002 December             2     Post-conflict                        S               S
                                               Operations & Evaluation



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              55.23                     122,035.62
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                             25.60                       57,753.90
  ICR                                      4.44                       15,583.74
  Total                                   85.27                     195,373.26




                                               - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l (MOP) Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Credit to the
  Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, June 4, 2001
l Système de suivi et de décaissements et des dépenses de la mise en oeuvre de la matrice dans
  le cadre du crédit CURE, Direction Générale du Plan, 16 Juin 2001
l Procès-verbal des Négociations du 6 juillet 2001, Crédit d'Urgence au Redressement
  Economique (CURE)
l Technical Annex for a Proposed Credit to the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros for
  an Emergency Economic Recovery Credit, July 11, 2001, Report T-7475-COM
l Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en République Fédérale Islamique des
  Comores du 27 août au 4 septembre 2001.
l (DCA) Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3563 COM (Emergency Economic
  Recovery Credit), Dated September 10, 2001
l Supplemental Letter No.3 Re: Credit No. 3563 COM (Emergency Economic Recovery
  Credit) Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, Priority Program of Local
  Expenditures, of September 10, 2001
l Manuel Général de Procédures, Crédit d'Urgence au Redressement Economique,
  Commissariat Général au Plan, novembre 2001 (draft).
l Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en République Fédérale Islamique des
  Comores du 10 au 20 novembre 2001.
l Rapport de Contrôle Interne, Crédit d'Urgence pour la Relance Economique,
  PriceWaterhouse-Coopers, 31 mars 2002
l Etats Financiers, Crédit d'Urgence pour la Relance Economique, PriceWaterhouse-Coopers,
  31 mars 2002
l Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale et du Fond monétaire international en Union
  des Comores du 19 mars au 4 avril 2002.
l Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en Union des Comores du 13 au 27 juillet
  2002, including the attached Project Status Report Comoros Emergency Economic
  Recovery Credit, Seq #2.
l 2ème Rapport de Contrôle sur le Crédit d'Urgence au Redressement Economique
  (CURE), Commission de Vérification des Comptes, novembre 2002.
l Aide Mémoire, Mission de la Banque mondiale en Union des Comores du 9 au 17 décembre
  2002
l Various disbursement tables, sub-project progress reports and correspondence




                                           - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Expenditure Table


                                   (As of 28 February 2003, based on 541.79 KMF/US$)

                    Item                      Budgeted        Committed       %     Disbursed    %
TOTAL                                           6,000,000 6,164,582 103% 4,774,396 80%
Poverty Reduction
Component                                       3,000,000 2,900,959           97% 2,527,289 84%
Health                                            1,350,000       1,140,864    85%    1,095,956  81%
Anjouan                                             450,000         411,782    92%      366,874  82%
Hospital rehabilitation (Hombo)                                      50,499             30,204
Pediatric ward rehabilitation                                         16,104               7,955
Laundry rehabilitation                                                 6,691               6,430
Ward rehabilitation                                                    3,888               3,775
Pediatric ward tiling                                                 23,817              12,043
Equipment and medical supplies                                      153,223             153,223
Pharmaceuticals for PNAC                                             76,413             76,413
Staff training                                                       31,977              7,364
Ambulances                                                           99,670             99,670
Grande Comore                                       600,000         440,068    73%      440,068  73%
Hospital rehabilitation (Ouzioini)                  146,340                0    0%           0*   0%
Hospital rehabilitation
(El Maarouf)                                                0        17,695             17,695
Pharmaceuticals for PNAC                            400,000         172,465    43%      172,465  43%
Medical gaz                                           53,660         53,660   100%      53,660 100%
Equipment and medical supplies                              0       106,995             106,995
Ambulances (2)                                              0        65,948             65,948
Cholera camp                                                0        23,305             23,305
Moheli                                              300,000         289,014    96%      289,014  96%
Equipment and medical supplies                      270,468         193,690    72%      193,690  72%
Medical gaz                                           29,532         29,290    99%      29,290   99%
Ambulances (2)                                                       65,789             65,789
Staff training                                              0           245                 245
Education                                           750,000         811,432   108%      630,481  84%
Anjouan                                             750,000         811,432   108%      630,481  84%
Building 20 classrooms                                      0       342,288             300,140
Building 2 classrooms Hombo                                           32,536              31,118
Building 2 classrooms Ouani High School                               35,197              33,437
Building 2 classrooms Liwara High School                              33,260              28,809
Building 2 classrooms Mirontsy Primary
School                                                                33,111              31,455
Building 1 classroom Akibani Primary
School                                                                20,564              19,603
Building 2 classrooms Barakani Primary
School                                                                31,818              30,227
Building 1 classroom Jimlime Primary
School                                                                24,301               2,427
Building 1 classroom Ankibani School                                  23,511              22,302
Building 2 classrooms Imere School                                    26,290              25,098
Building 2 classrooms Ongojou School                                  39,113              35,623




                                                         - 29 -

                   Item                 Budgeted     Committed  %   Disbursed   %
Building 1 classroom Milembeni School                    15,376          14,607
Building 2 classroom Chirove School                      27,212          25,434
Rehabilitation 7 schools                    400,000    147,617  37%     95,109  24%
Missiri School                                           11,081           9,461
Mirontsy-Wamani School                                   23,454          22,631
Bazimi Primary School (4 classrooms)                     25,892          24,598
Ouani Primary School                                     19,158          18,200
Hajoho Secondary School                                  25,764          20,220
Bweladoungou School                                      20,936               0
Bandrani School                                          21,333               0
Other construction works on
schools                                                 43,849          31,248
Two latrines at Hombo                                     3,722           3,535
Fencing in Hombo                                         12,918          12,273
Roofing of Massiri School                                15,185          14,426
Additional work Hombo                                     1,067           1,013
Fencing in Domoni                                        10,957               0
School equipment                            250,000    258,615  103%   184,922  74%
Classroom equipment first tranche                        38,259          38,259
Classroom equipment second tranche                       48,617          21,088
School supplies first tranche                            35,893          35,893
School supplies second tranche                           44,205          44,205
Printing supplies second tranche                          7,217           6,495
180 Tables                                                6,460               0
Sporting equipment                                       77,965          38,982
Staff training                              100,000     19,063  19%     19,063  19%
Water, Sanitation, Roadworks                510,000    572,167  112%   460,296  90%
Anjouan                                     150,000    217,791  145%   169,707 113%
Small infrastructure works                             197,414         169,707
Drainage Canal Bimbini                                   49,836          40,511
Protection wall Koni Ngani                                7,595           7,368
Support wall Magagarajou                                 14,732          14,146
Road to Hombo primary school                             29,906          28,411
Support wall Hombo School                                43,750          38,765
Support wall Hombo crossroad                                854             769
Road surface Sima-wemani                                 18,494          17,787
Washing facilities Papani-Domoni                         15,197          14,139
Ankiba School                                             2,703               0
Road to Mutsamudu high school                             6,124               0
Drainage Hombo School                                     8,222           7,811
Repair of public works machinery                        20,377               0




                                                - 30 -

                   Item                      Budgeted     Committed   %   Disbursed   %
Grande Comore                                    360,000    354,376   98%    290,589  81%
Makorani water supply                            360,000    354,376   98%    290,589  81%
Rural Development                                150,000     37,062   25%      1,123  1%
Anjouan                                          150,000     37,062   25%      1,123  1%
Reforestation and livestock                       50,000     37,062   74%      1,123  2%
Fishery equipment                                100,000           0   0%          0  0%
Navigation and Comms
Equipment**                                      240,000    339,433   141%   339,433 141%
Anjouan                                                0     99,793           99,793
Grande Comore                                    240,000    179,899   75%    179,899  75%
Moheli                                                 0     59,740           59,740
Decentralisation
Component                                     1,800,000 1,132,054     63%   432,303 24%
Anjouan                                          900,000    519,944   58%    205,670  23%
Rehabilitation of administrative
buildings                                        600,000    361,518   60%    169,642  28%
Finance Ministry rehabilitation                               93,897           44,854
Treasury rehabilitation                                       24,797           13,582
Immigration office rehabilitation                             23,212                0
Construction of administrative office block                   219,613         111,205
Equipment, furniture and supplies                      0    110,437           36,028
15 PCs, 4 laptops, 12 copiers and 6 phones              0     54,168           16,390
470 chairs, 120 tables, 30 desks, 35
armchairs                                               0     52,747           18,751
printing and mapping supplies                           0      3,522              887
Vehicles for administration (4)                        0     47,989                0
Civil servant relocation                         300,000           0   0%          0  0%
Grande Comore                                    300,000     58,364   19%     27,675  9%
Rehabilitation of president's office             204,000     16,612    8%     12,909  6%
Staff training                                    96,000           0   0%          0  0%
Equipment, furniture and supplies                      0     16,097            2,769
Vehicles for administration (2)                        0     25,656           11,997
Moheli                                           600,000    553,746   92%    198,958  33%
Construction of central office block             300,000    479,891   160%   125,102  42%
Communal admin. building
construction                                     300,000           0   0%          0  0%
Vehicles for administration (6)                        0     73,856           73,856




                                                     - 31 -

              Item                 Budgeted     Committed %   Disbursed  %
Reconciliation Component
                                     500,000     186,587  37%   186,587 37%
Center                                 500,000    186,587  37%   186,587 37%
Tri-partite Commission                                            69,251
Per diems                                                         51,298
Travel                                                             3,658
Meetings                                                          14,294
Supervision Committee                                             75,549
Studies and Expertise                                             41,787
Supporting the                                                          353
Administration                       363,000 1,584,091 436% 1,279,597     %
Supporting Budget and Civil
Service                                 63,000     63,000 100%    52,194 83%
Center                                  63,000     63,000 100%    52,194 83%
Budget formulation                      63,000     63,000 100%    52,194 83%
Planning Ministry Support              300,000    306,029 102%   243,419 81%
Center                                 300,000    142,382  47%   116,542 39%
Rehabilitation                                     26,049         26,049
Equipment, furniture and supplies                  73,192         62,118
Salaries                                           28,374         28,374
Vehicle                                            14,766              0
Anjouan                                      0     65,076         52,156
Rehabilitation                                     23,072         23,072
Equipment, furniture and supplies                  18,082         19,928
Salaries                                            9,157          9,157
Vehicle                                            14,766              0
Grande Comore                                0     43,905         21,712
Rehabilitation                                      9,229            452
Equipment, furniture and supplies                  20,059          6,945
Salaries                                              775            473
Vehicle                                            13,843         13,843
Moheli                                       0     54,666         53,009
Rehabilitation                                     21,503         21,706
Equipment, furniture and supplies                  16,552         14,488
Vehicle                                            16,612         16,815
Civil Servants' Salary Arrears               0    620,061        620,061
Anjouan                                           306,287        306,287
Grande Comore                                     276,860        276,860
Moheli                                             36,915         36,915
Port worker compensation                     0    595,000        363,923
Anjouan                                           231,077              0
Grande Comore                                     363,923        363,923




                                           - 32 -

               Item                    Budgeted       Committed  %   Disbursed    %
Project Running Cost
                                            337,000    275,014   82%   266,800 79%
Center                                       337,000     275,014 82%     266,800
Salaries                                                  29,532          29,532
Travel                                                    12,831          12,831
Supplies                                                 206,312      206,312***
Audits                                                    26,340          18,126
Other
                                                   0    85,878          81,820
Anjouan                                                   39,751          35,693
Technicians                                               39,751          35,693
Moheli                                                       574             574
Study                                                        574             574
Center                                                    45,553          45,553
Rehabilitation of building                                45,553          45,553
TOTALS BY ISLAND                         6,000,000 6,164,582 103% 4,774,396 80%
Anjouan                                    2,400,000   2,739,995 114%  1,867,786 78%
Grande Comore                              1,500,000   1,717,396 114%  1,600,727 107%
Moheli                                       900,000     994,655 111%    638,209 71%
Center                                     1,200,000     712,535 59%     667,674 56%



*Implementation was taken over by Health Project.
**Project also known as "Safety of Fishermen"
***Includes purchase of two project vehicles.




                                                 - 33 -

- 34 -

