Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3563 COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Economic Recovery Credit)
between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  September 10,  2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3563 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 2001, between ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE 
COMOROS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS  (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated July 
10, 2001, describing a program of actions to address the Emergency (as hereafter 
defined) (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
(B)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association 
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.".
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CF or Comorian Franc" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
"Emergency" means the extraordinary events that comprised the separatist 
crisis in the Borrower’s territories which took place between August 1997 and February 
2001; 
(c)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(d)
"Unité de Mise en Oeuvre des Fonds d’Urgence" means the unit established 
and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Arrêté No.01-450/MIFBP/CAB dated July 13, 
2001.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 4,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  the Project, prior to furnishing 
to the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, open and 
maintain thereafter a deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable  
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2011 and ending March 15, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2021 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
Page  4
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The President of the Unité de Mise en Oeuvre des Fonds d’Urgence 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, technical, administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 4.02.  Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:  
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified, namely, that an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant 
Page  5
part thereof shall be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Budget and Privatization
B.P. 324
Moroni
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Telex:
Facsimile:
245-MIEF-CAB KO
(269) 
74-41-40            
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
        Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
        248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
         64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Moroni, Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By /s/ Azali Assoumani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hafez Ghanem
Page  6
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Eligible imports                 4,800,000
100% of foreign
required for the 
expenditures
Project as specified
in the Annex to this
Schedule 1
TOTAL                      4,800,000
2.        
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
960,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after April 15, 2001;
(b) 
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $20,000 
equivalent;
(c) 
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance or which the Association has financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit;
(d)
expenditures, without prior approval by the Association, in excess of an 
aggregate amount equivalent to fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the Credit for any 
class of eligible imports specified in the Annex to this Schedule; and
(e)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purposes, 
luxury consumption and used goods.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Classes of Eligible Imports to be Financed Under the Credit
1.
Construction materials
2.
Agriculture equipment and inputs
3.
Commodities such as grain and cooking oil
Page  7
4.
Livestock, animal feed products and veterinary supplies
5.
School supplies and equipment
6.
Medical supplies, pharmaceuticals and equipment
7.
Commodities such as petroleum, fuel products and metals
8.
Construction equipment and industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials
9.
Transport vehicles for utilitarian purposes and spare parts
10.
Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and spare parts.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to achieve macroeconomic 
stability and address urgent social needs, through financing of import costs 
associated with rebuilding the economy damaged by the Emergency.
The Project consists of the financing of emergency imports as specified in the 
Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Modified International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Commonly Traded Commodities
Page  8
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized international 
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods imported by the public sector (other than those goods procured under 
paragraph 1 of this Part) estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract,  may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Private Sector
Goods imported by the private sector (other than those goods procured under 
paragraph 1 above) estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured in accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
