Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
22v. J   #-^? °kR
Report No. P-4487-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$70 MILLION
TO THE
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 19, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          m    Pakistan Rupees (PRs)
Rupee I                -    Paisa 100
Rupee 1                =    US$0.0593
Rupees 1,000,000       m    US$59,300
US$1                   -    PRi  16.87
US$1,000,000           a    PRs 16,870,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -   Asian Development Bank
ADP        -   Annual Development Plan
AEB        -   Area Electricity Board
ANL        -   Argonne National Laboratory
CTDA       -   Canadian International Development Agency
CIP        -   Core Investment Program
CDWP       -   Central Development Working Party
ECC        -   Economic Coordination Committee
ENERCON    -   Energy Conservation Unit
ENERPLAN   -   Energy Planning Unit
ECNEC      -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERWG       -   Energy Review Working Group
ESL        -   Energy Sector Loan
GOP        -   Government of Pakistan
IERR       -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
KESC       -   Karachi Electric Supply Corporation, Ltd.
LRMC       -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
NPD        -   Ministry of Planning and Development
MPNR       -   Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
NEPC       -   National Energy Policy Committee
ODA        -   Overseas Development Administration
OGDC       -   Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PARCO      -   Pakistan Arab Company
PMDC       -   Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PSO        -   Pakistan State Oil Company
SOC        -   Southern Gas Company
SNGPL      -   Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Ltd.
USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Program
WAPDA      -   Water and Power Development Authority
GOP AND WAPDA'S FISCAL YEAR (FT)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Guarantor:             Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                US$70.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate
Project Description:  The primary objective of the Project is to improve
the efficiency of the existing power stations
and make available additional generating capacity
needed to minimize the anticipated shortfalls in
electricity at least cost to the economy. The
Project would add about 120 MW of generating capacity
through rehabilitation and about 80 NW through
conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle
operation. It would also promote the more efficient
use of energy by reducing the consumption of fuel
per kWh of power generated. In addition, the
Project would strengthen WAPDA's capability in the
operation and maintenance of thermal power station
and spare parts management. No unusual risks are
foreseen in project implementation. Slippages,
however, could occur due to delay in procurement and
appointment of contractors. This would be minimized
by engaging consultants for the preparation of
bidding documents in accordance with the implementation
schedule. Although there is a risk that current
power and energy shortages may delay project
implementation, this risk is minimized, given GOP and
WAPDA's commitment to improving the efficiency of
generating units and reducing load shedding.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriZaion.



-il-
Estimated Costs j/:
Local        Foreign          Total
------------US$ Million-----------
Civil Works                             7.2             0.5            7.7
Main Plant Rehabilitation              11.2            29.6           40.8
Converjion to Combined Cycle           11.2            27.0           38.2
Fuel fsndling System                    0.5             0.9            1.4
Substation Equipment                    1.9             4.4            6.3
Workshop Equipment                      1.8             4.4            6.2
Township                                0.9               -            0.9
Consultancy Services & Training         0.6             6.2            6.8
Adminiatration                          4.0               -            4.0
Total Baseline Costs                   39.3            73.0          112.3
Tiysical Contingencies            4.7             8.7            13.4
PArice Contingencies              8.1            13.1           21.2
Total Project Costs                    52.1            94.8          146.9
Interest During
Construction                    1.7            14.2           15.9
Total Financing Required         53.8           109.0          162.8
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      -            70.0           70.0
USAID                                                  15.0           15.0
ODA                                       -             5.3            5.3
WAPDA                                  53.8               -           53.8
GOP                                       -            18.7           18.7
53.8           109.0          162.8
Estimated Disbursmentts:
IBRD                                     FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92
--…---------US$ Millio …-----
Annual                                     6      24       27       12        1
Cumulative                                 6      30       57      69       70
Appraisal Rtport: No.6390-PAK, dated March 7, 1987.
Rate of Return:  16%
Map            : IBRD 19782
If Including local duties and taxes of US$25.4 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with the guarantee of
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$70 million to help
finance a Power Plant Efficiency Improvement Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Sixth Plan Progress and
Future Prospects" (No. 6533-PAK, dated February 26, 1987), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 11, 1987.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in the
previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural sector,
real CDP increased by 8.4%, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added in agricul-
ture grew by 12.0% and in manufacturing by 8.6%. Both fixed investment and
private investment rose by about 12%. Improved availability of agricultural
commodities helped to reduce the rate of inflation to 7.5% from 8.4% in FY84.
On the other hand, the budget deteriorated markedly, national savings
decreased, and the balance of payments came under pressure. Government
current revenues fell short of the budgeted amount while expenditures sub-
stantially exceeded the budgeted amounts. As a result, government borrowing
from the domestic banking system increased from 1.9% of GDP in FY84 to 3.9%
of GDP. Reflecting largely the sharp drop in public savings, national
savings fell from 12.8% to 11.2% of GNP. Although the immediate growth
prospects are good, budgetary and balance of payments developments will need
to be carefully watched.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stood at US$1.6 billion, compared to USS1 biLlion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports declined
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-4445-PAK (Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research - Phase II Project) dated February 4, 1987.



-2-
by 7.31 as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered the effects
of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.61 in FY85. According
to recent projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remit-
tances will be lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$960
million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$1.2
billion at the end of FY85, which was equivalent to 2 months of imports of
goods and services.
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the economy,
initiated in 1980, was completed in July 1985. All tt¶nsactions are now
based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles. Exristing
interest-based commitments have been honored and transactions with foreign
goveruments and financial institutions are not affected. It is too early to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization.
Undoubtedly, the operation of the new system will initially involve some
costs, but whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how
the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously,
and new financing modes have been applied flexibly and developments monitored
closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth ratio achieved in the first two years of the Sixth Plan was consistent
with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5%), agricuLture (4.2%), manufactur-
ing (10.4%), exports (11), and private investment (6.71), though below Sixth
Plan targets, was well above Che rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other develc?ing countries.
Growth during this period--coupled with increased remittances--benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number of
adverse factors: (i) a world recession; (ii) a 30Z decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; and (iii) the Afghanistan crisis with its atten-
dant expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank
borrowing, which in FY79 stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP respectively, fell to
6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government borrowing from banks
dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained, the growth of the money
supply stowed down and inflationary pressures lessened; inflation dropped
from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance
was largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue
performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social
services barely kept pace with population growth, and development expendi-
tures declined relative to CDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16%
of GDP, and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8Z of ONP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances,
but also strong export growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of



-3-
CNP to 2% by the end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5
to 4.5 months of imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.
Subsidies on pesticides were vixtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial all.-cations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufactur-
ing investment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private sector
were widened, most agricultural processing units were denationalized, and
sanctioning limits increased. A flexibLe exchange rate policy adopted in
1982 was instrumental in stimulating manufactured exports, while import
liberalization increased the availability of raw materials and capital goods.
In energy, measures were taken to accelerate the development of domestic
resources, rationalize prices, and improve volicy formulation and energy
planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must be
introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (i) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (ii) the need to
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan is
to sustain high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social
base. The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind those
of other developing countries at comparable levels of development. It will
not be possible to increase public investment and recurrent allocations
without a major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although Pakistan
should give priority to reforming indirect taxation through a broad-based
sales tax, it should also rely more on user charges, should curtail
subsidies, and increase self-financing by public enterprises. Given the
continuing constrained outlook for official assistance and the likelihood of
lower remittance fLows, sustained improvements in both export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. If trade performance is to be
improved, structural adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the key
sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and industry
have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of effi-
cient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can contribute considerably to the
reduction of energy imports.



-4-
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; yet average yields remain low by world standards and by those of
progressive farmers within Pakistan. Before agricultural productivity and
diversification can be increased, institutional support must be strengthened,
appropriate pricing policies must be put in place, and the core investment
program identified and implemented. More effective institutional support
should be sought through improvements in the quality and quantity of services
to farmers. In particular, strengthening the seed program requires more
efficient seed multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in
public sector plants, and a greater roLe for the private sector. The
delivery of agricultural credit also needs to be improved to ensure that it
actually reaches small farmers and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest.
Furthermore, marketing costs need to be reduced and research and extension
services strengthened. Agricultural pricing policies should create
appropriate incentives to farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multicrop
approaches to pricing should complement the single-crop, cost-of-production
approach currently used. FinalLy, a core investment program in agriculture
and water is needed to reduce the possibility of distortions in investment
priorities. Low cost programs that yield quick returns should be emphasized
along with critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity.
Greater emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially
between agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to
programs that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment
the supply of physical infrastructure.
11.     Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by rapid
expansion of manufactured exports in recent years, there are a number of
issues the Government must address if this performance is to be sustained.
High levels of protection have led to high cost, low quality domestic produc-
tion both by raising input prices and by reducing the demand for new technol-
ogy to raise productivity and improve product quality. If Pakistan is to
increase and diversify its manufactured export base and encourage efficient
import substitution, industrial incentives must be rationalized to reduce
both the level and dispersion of effective protection rates.  The objective
here is to increast the efficiency of the industriaL sector by exposing
protected producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the anti-
export bias inherent in the present incentives. In addition, the Government
should reform the regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus
pricing in order to improve competition among domestic firms. It should
limit sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most
investment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to assess
investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a number of
key private and public manufacturing enterprises, which provide insufficient
incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiently, should be
replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect supply/demand
conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and operational
efficiency.



-5-
12.     Issues that needed to be and are being addressed in the energy sector
pertain to three broad areas: (i) investment and development; (ii) pricing;
and (iii) institutional strengthening. In the power subsector, the
Covernment has formulated a least-cost development plan for the period
1986-2005 and has outlined a core investment program of Rs 30 billion con-
sisting of high priority projects to be implemented during FY86 to FY88.
Given the likelihood of domestic resource constraints and persistent power
shortages, the Government is also undertaking a number of measures including
tariff increases to ensure that a large portion of this investment program
would be financed from the Water and Power Development Authority's self-
generated resources. The gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries
has been adjusted to provide adequate incentives to attract private sector
exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept artificially low to
enc_urage the substitution of gas for imported oil, relative prices became
distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982, the Government's policy
has been to progressively increase consumer prices of gas in order to reach
two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget increased the average
gas price by over 50%. Assisted by domestic price increases and lower inter-
national prices for fuel oil, the Government's target has been realized. The
Government should continue the policy of gradually adjusting gas prices with
a view to reaching full parity as early as possibLe. Electricity tariffs,
which are currently below the long-run marginal cost, should be adjusted to
reflect this cost, not only to ensure the efficient use of electricity and
encourage energy conservation, but also tt' mobilize the substantial addi-
tional funds required by the power investmenL program. Finally, the
Government should consider increasing the autonomy of public enterprises in
the energy sector to improve their efficiency and should continue to
strengthen energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) articulates a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures, and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation, and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan have been
8.5% lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic
resources. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health, and agriculture have received considerably lower
alLocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a predefined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; thus too many projects have
been initiated, and projects that should receive priority are underfunded.
To address this issue, the Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority
Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adop-
tion of a rolling medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and
priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable.
The program will merely identify sectoral core investment programs to be
given priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key



-6-
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved
Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and comner-
cial borrowing. At the end of 1984, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.9 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC, US$2.3 billion to multilateraL agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in
Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 16.2Z, and in external debt
service it wes 8.0%. According to Bank projections, if recent policy
improvements are sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt
service will remain about 20% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with
somewhat higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of September 30, 1986, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately US$4.5
billion, and IFC's investments totalled $243.0 million. (Annex I contains a
summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 25-year period, in a major program of works to
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 301 of total
Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation;
28Z for industry, including import program credits; 18% for transport,
telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for energy, including
power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social programs in education,
population, and urban development; and 5Z for structural adjustment lending
and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is primarily to support the
Government of Pakistan's (GOP) efforts to formulate and implement policy
reforms in three sectors--energy, industry, and agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from adjust-
ment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly, the strategy
also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the social sectors
(education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in Pakistan's develop-
ment efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full range of traditional
instruments of Bank support must be flexibly deployed--from sector work and
active policy dialogue, to policy- and project-based lending, technical
assistance and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises



-7-
two components, the larger of which supports specific high-priority invest-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but nonetheless strategic component focuses on policy reforms in the
key sectors of agriculture, industry, and energy and relies heavily on high-
quality economic and sector work. The program includes a series of technical
assistance credits to finance studies and formulate action programs for
policy reform. The experience with the first of these has been extremely
positive. In addition, through its annual Country Economic Memorandum, the
Bank Group tries to foster greater understanding on the part of Consortium
members of the Government's structural adjustment program and aid
requirements. This effort, coupled with increased cofinancing, should
enhance the poLicy relevance and effectiveness of other official aid and help
attract additional resources to Pakistan from nonconcessional sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The Bank and
the Government have agreed that the main objective of the agricultural
strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be to increase
agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of the
irrigation svstem and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and
projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input and output
prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery,
and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged
from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research, and extension and
have included institution-building components. Overall, progress in agricul-
ture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects:  to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has been
designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to promot-
ing export expansion and import substitution. Issues being addressed
include trade and industrial incentives, deregulation, efficiency of public
enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in the credit delivery
system. Lines of credit extended to development finance institutions and
other financial intermediaries have been mainly for the private sector.
Direct lending for industry has also included assistance to three large
fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. IFC's investments in 18
Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans (US$28.6 million) and equity par-
ticipation (US$1.3 million). Although individual operations have generally
achieved their objectives, the agenda for overall industrial reform remains
formidable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981182 and the Energy Sector Loan (ESL) in 1985, our lending
program in energy is expanding rapidLy. The overall objective here is to
expand the domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously
increase the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing,



-8-
conservation, and other methods of managing demand. No less central have
been the efforts to strengthen key institutions in the nector. In power,
the Bank has helped both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation and the
Water and Power Development Authority to finance their power generation and
transmission programs. The construction of the Nangla and Tarbela dams under
the Indus Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership
role, has also assisted in Achieving the objectives of the sector strattegy.
In oil annd_&As, the Bank hns financed n sound exploration And development
program and has assisted in developing the extennive gas transmission system.
Smaller efforts, involving mainly engineering sLudies and technical
assistance, have been undertaken to support coal exploration, energy audits,
and oil refining. Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to
continue participating in institution building and helping the Government
mobilize adequate funds Eor energy investments through tariffs, co-financing,
and greater private sector participation.
21.     Bank Group Lending for transport and comunications has focused both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions respon-
sible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure is now con-
sidered to be a critical constraint to overall growth, in large measure
because infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance between new
i,vestments and the efficient operation and maintenance of existing invest-
mfionts needs greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24%, a population growth rate
of about 3.1%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally formidable
development agenda in the social sector. The Bank has supported the
Government's programs in education through five credits designed to upgrade
primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and agricultural education as
well as middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension
agents. The focus has been and will continue to be on the lower end of the
education spectrum (primary, technical, and nonformal education). A first
population project designed to expand the demand for population control
services was approved in FY83. Furthermore, the Bank has financed four
projects in the urban and water supply sector. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are designed to improve local resource mobi-
lization and cost recovery; planning and efficiency of resource utilization;
and urban management, especially at the provincial and municipal levels.
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan mentioned in para. 20. The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development planning
and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy, and industrial
sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of FY83, sig-
nificant progress had been achieved in the above areas. ESL supports the
Government's reform program for the energy sector and assists in the



-9-
implementation of a core investment program for the sector. Continuing
support for the structural adjustment process is envisioned under other
sector loans in the next few years.
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects have
experieniced initial delays owing to protract-ad government procedures for
project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and techni-
cal staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to budgetary
constraints, has also been a problem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power generation, transmission and distribution,
and energy conservation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal
development; lines of credit for industrial financing for the private sector,
and for industrial subsector restructuring, balancing, and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, and agricultural inputs and services; highway construc-
tion and maintenance; primary and informal education; urban development and
water supply. Sector loans that would support further structural adjustment
in industry, agriculture and transportation are being discussed with the
Government; such loans would provide a policy umbrella for projects in those
sectors. To help the Government finance agricultural and other high-priority
projects having low foreign exchange component, the Bank Group is financing
some local expenditures on a case-by-case basis.
26.     Ecorl-!vc and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on development
strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and the
coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The work
program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the three
key sectors, and the development of the physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER SUBSECTOR
ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
27.     Pakistan's commercially exploitable domestic energy resources
consist, in order of importance, of hydropower, naturaL gas, oil and coal.
The country also has a large base of renewable energy in the form of agricul-
tural and animal wastes, and solar and wind energy. The hydropower potential
is estimated at about 30,000 MW, of which only 2,897 MW has been developed
and another 1,928 MW is under construction or at an advanced stage of
preparation. In addition, 3,600 MW will be added if the proposed site at
Kalabagh is fully developed. Natural gas is Pakistan's main commercially
exploitable hydrocarbon resource with proven and probable reserves estimated



-10-
at about 340 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Proven and probable
reserves of oil are estimated at about 58 million toe. Although the
prospects for increasing the supply of domestic hydrocarbons are good, this
would require increased private sector participation in exploration to reduce
the risk borne by COP. Coal and lignite reseives are estimated at about 900
million tons of which only 175 million tons are proven. GOP has outlined a
systematic program for the formulation of a comprehensive coal exploration
strategy to determine the reserves where further assessment is justified.
TLe first phase of the program would be implemented in 1987 and 1988. GOP is
also assessing, under United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) financing, the potential for stimulating increased private sector
involvement in coal production using the reserves at Lakhra as a model. If
the results at Lakhra are favorable, the same model could be applied to other
promising areas.
Developments in the Energy Sector
28.     Pakistan's indigenous energy resources have been developed at a
substantially slower pace than warranted mainly because of financial
constraints. As policies to restrain the growth of consumption also were
inadequate, the country's dependence on imported energy increased. The
import bill for energy increased from 8% of total imports in FY73 to 18% in
FY78 when medium term planning was resumed. In recognition of the possible
adverse impact on the economy of sustained growth in the demand for energy
and increased dependence on imported energy, the Fifth Five-Year Plan
(PY79-FY83) emphasized the accelerated development of domestic energy resour-
ces and rationalization of consumption. However, as the plan targets were
not achieved, GOP gave high priority to the development of energy sector in
the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-FY88). Accordingly, its share of the resources
were increased and severaL important policy measures were initiated. Despite
these actions, it became evident during the first two years of the Plan that
supply targets were not likely to be achieved fully. As in the Fifth Plan
this was mainly due to: (i) the shortage of financial resources,
precipitated by the underpricing of natural gas and electricity which in turn
stimulated consumption and resulted in severe and frequent supply
interruptions; and (ii) the absence of a system for setting priorities in
investment and for mobilizing resources for their implementation. The short-
falls in the supply targets, together with the high likelihood that resource
constraints would continue into the immediate future, prompted GOP to
formulate, with assistance from the Bank, a comprehensive development
strategy to address the major sectoral issues. The strategy involves a
two-pronged approach. The first focuses on minimizing the shortfalls in
energy during the last three years (FY86-FY88) of the current Plan period.
Hence, it concentrates on (i) the implementation of a Core Investment Program
(CIP) of high priority projects: and (ii) the adoption of policy actions and
institutional reforms needed to mobilize sufficient resources for executing
these projects, restrain the growth of demand for energy, and enhance the
efficiency of energy production and consumption. The second calls for
studies which would provide the inputs needed to promote the integrated



-11-
development of the sector during the Seventh and Eighth Plan periods. It
was in support of this strategy that an Energy Sector Loan (ESL Ln.
(2552-PAK) was made to GOP to assist in covering the cost of equipment,
materials and services needed for the implementation of the CIP. The
proceeds of the loan were tD be released in two tranches, each contingent
on satisfactory progress in the implementation of agreed measures. In view
of the long lead time for some of the items to be procured, the funds under
each tranche were to be disbursed until the closing of the loan and, hence,
the second tranche was to be released before the first was disbursed fully.
29.     The first tranche of ESL was released at Loan effectiveness, follow-
ing the adoption of a new producer pricing formula for natural gas and the
introduction of an increase in WAPDA's tariffs. The release of the second
tranche, originally scheduled for July 1, 1986, was contingent on:
{i) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the CIP for FY86 and in
mobilizing resources for the CIP for FY87; and (ii) implementation of actions
needed to ensure that 40% of WAPDA's CIP for FY87 was financed from internal
sources. The release of the second tranche, however, was delayed because
actions needed to comply with covenant relating to WAPDA's self-financing
ratio were not taken until October 1986, five months later than the agreed
date. The Bank has reviewed the actions taken by GOP and has found them to
be satisfactory. As the two conditions precedent to the release of the
second tranche have now been met and satisfactory progress has been made in
implementing the energy sector strategy in FY86, a memorandum will be dis-
tributed shortly to the Board to inform you of the release.
Review of Progress in Implementing the Energy Sector Strateg
30.     The issues identified in the strategy and the progress made in
implementing the actions outlined to address them fall under three headings:
Ci) investment and development; (ii) pricing and demand management; and
(iii) institutional development. Investment and Development. The first step
involved in the fonnulation of the strategy was to revise the supply targets
and outline a CIP that covers the last three years of the Sixth Plan
(FY86-FY88). The CIP calls for predetermined annual allocations for the
implementation of projects needed to achieve the revised supply targets and
ensure a smooth transition into the Seventh Plan. The CIP for the power
subsector was formulated on the basis of a least cost plan and consists of
generation, transmission and distribution projects to be implemented by the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) and the Karachi Electricity
Supply Corporation (KESC). The CIP for the petroleum subsector covers the
Oil and Gas DeveLopment Corporation's (OGDC) exploration and development
program of specific low risk gas and oil prone areas. A program parallel to
that of OGDC was outlined for the development of fields suitable for attract-
ing risk capital through joint venture. In addition, CIPs consisting of
priority projects were outlined for the Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Ltd.
(SNCPL), Pakistan State Oil (PSO), Southern Gas Company (SGC), Pakistan
Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC) and the Energy Conservation Unit



-12-
(ENERCON), which was to be established in the Ministry of Planning and
Development (MPD).
31.     The Bank has reviewed the progress made by the eight energy sector
entities in implementing their respective CIPs for FY86 and found it to be
satisfactory. WAPDA, OGDC, PMDC and ENERCON, the four public sector entities
whose investment programs are financed through the Annual Development Program
(ADP), were allocated Rs 10,980 million in FY86, a reduction of only 13%
relative to the financial requirement of Rs 12,660 million for the CIP. Most
of this reductioa was in response to the slump in the international market
which reduced the price of equipment, materials and services needed for the
implementation of the CIP by these entities, except ENERCON, whose estab-
lishment and staffing was delayed. In fact, cost savings, together with the
more efficient deployment of resources, enabled OGDC to reduce its expendi-
tures to levels below those allocated under ADP and drill two more wells than
were agreed to under ESL, nine compared to seven. Unlike OGDC, WAPDA,
however, was unable to utilize fully the resources allocated under ADP and,
hence, fell short of achieving the physical targets of the CIP for
generation. The shortfall in WAPDA's expenditures relative to the ADP
allocation of about Rs 1.46 billion is attributable to: (i) delays in the
effectiveness of an ADB loan for the Tarbela Units 1 through 14 (Rs 879
million); (ii) disputes with a manufacturer which resulted in WAPDA delaying
the release of the final payment for the Cuddu power plant (Rs 306 million);
and (iii) delays in the delivery of equipment and material for the Kot Addu
power plant (Rs 252 million). Although WAPDA had a shortfall in its expendi-
tures agreed under ESL, the achievement in implementing CIP represents a
marked improvement relative to the past in that it is attributable entirely
to factors other than resource constraints which, during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan period and the first two years of the Sixth Plan, had induced WAPDA to
reduce its investment program by between 401 to 50%. Moreover, unlike the
past, this shortfall is expected to be largely offset in FY87 as the
Government has increased the allocation for WAPDA this year by about 10%
relative to the program agreed to under ESL, Rs 10,847 million compared to
Rs 9,813 million. In so doing, the Government has reaffirmed its commitment
to the objectives of the energy sector strategy, in general, and to WAPDA's
Rs 30 billion core investment program for FY86-FY88, in particular, which is
the minimum required to prevent power shortages from becoming more acute.
32.     The other four entities covered under the loan, namely, KESC, SNGPL,
PSO and SGC, which finance their investment programs from internal cash and
borrowing, were all able to mobilize the financial resources needed for the
implementation of their respective CIPs. Despite this, only KESC and SNGPL
were able to implement fully their CIPs for FY86. The shortfalls experienced
by SGC and PSO, however, simply reflect a realignment in the phasing of
expenditures. In the case of SGC, this was necessitated by the Government's
decision to streamline the institutions responsible for distributing gas in
the southern part of the country, by merging the Karachi Gas Company, the
original beneficiary, with the rndus Gas Company. In the case of PSO, the
expenditures were realigned to incorporate the results of the Petroleum



-13-
Products Infrastructure Study, initiated under ESL, to ensure consistency
between its investment program and overall development of the petroleum
product subsector. As the CIPs of SGC and PSO are relativeLy small, and
given the success these entities had in mobilizing resources for their
implementation, the shortfalls experienced in FY86 would be made up fully
before loan closing and hence are unlikely to jeopardize the achievement of
the physical targets agreed to under ESL.
33.     The Government's planned investment program for FY87 has also been
examined in detail by the Bank with respect to size, subsectoraL allocation
of resources and project content. These were found to be consistent with
the projected availability of resources, as welL as with the objectives of
the long-term strategy for the development of the energy sector. In general,
the planned investment program calls for a 10% increase in expenditures in
FY87 relative to the program agreed to under the Loan, Rs 17.2 billion com-
pared to Rs 15.6 billion. The bulk of this increase is earmarked for WAPDA
to offset the shortfaLls experienced in FY86. In the case of the other
entities, investment targets have been revised in consultation with the Bank
to reflect the more recent developments in the sector.
34.     Pricing and Demand Management.  The Petroleum products subsector
continues to be a net contributor to the resources of GOP. As of August 1,
1986 the weighted average domestic price of petroleum products was at 238%
of the border price. Under the prevailing price structure, prices of all
petroleum products are above their respective border prices. The natural gas
price throughout the 1970s was low relative to the prices of competing
petroleum products, reflecting GOP's decision to buffer the economy from the
adverse impact of the higher cost of imported energy. This stimulated demand
and by 1981 supply constraints started to emerge. Accordingly, under SAL I
(Loan 2166-PAK; Credit 1255-PAK), GOP decided to increase the price of gas to
reach two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by FY88. The same policy was
reiterated under ESL. In implementing the gas pricing policy, the weighted
average domestic price of gas has been increased since 1981 at an average
annual rate of about 30Z. These increases, and more importantly, the rapid
decline in the international price of oil, have enabled GOP to surpass the
SAL I target. As of August 1986, the weighted average price of gas was about
76% higher than the border price of fuel oil. In addition, in order to
provide added incentives for the international petroleum firms to increase
their exploration activities in high risk gas prone areas, a new producer
price formula for natural gas was introduced in 1985, which links the price
of new gas to the border price of fuel oil less a discount to be determined
on a field by field basis. This formula was to be applied only to non-
associated gas from new concessions signed on or after September 30, 1986.
The Government has further reaffirmed its commitment to this policy by agree-
ing to extend, on appropriate terms, the coverage of this formula to non-
producing fields and to new gas fields to be developed in existing
concessions. The Government's initiative has been welcomed by the private
sector: one foreign oil company is in the process of bringing into produc-
tion an already discovered field in the southern part of the country and two



-14-
new concessions have been signed with foreign oil companies. These develop-
ments clearly attest to the progress made in promoting private sector par-
ticipation in the exploration and development of gas.
35.     The average electricity revenue, including fuel surcharge, was about
681 of the average long-run marginal cost (LRMC). Largely because of the
divergence between average revenue and LRMC, outlays in the past were only
about 50% of the planned investment. In order to ensure that actual and
planned investments do not diverge, COP and WAPDA agreed under ESL to a
three-year CIP and to undertake all necessary measures including tariff
increases and annual allocations from the budget to ensure that it is
financed fully. Accordingly, electricity tariffs--which had changed very
little since November 1981--were increased, effective July 1, 1985, by 10%
across the board for alL consumers and, again, in October 1986 by extending
the coverage of the fueL surcharge to encompass domestic consumers whose
consumption is in excess of 250 kWh/month. The Bank supports the extension
of the fuel surcharge cLause as it represents the first step toward
rationalizing the structure of tariffs and, in turn, the consumption of
electricity. In order to sustain this effort, WAPDA, is also initiating a
load research and management study to compile detailed information on the
pattern of electricity consumption by consumer category, including their
capacity requirements, duration of use, load factors, etc. This study would
provide the inputs needed for restructuring electricity tariffs. In
addition,, COP has requested financing from UNDP to establish a system for
the collection, storage and retrieval of data on the power system which would
enable WAPDA to update and monitor the changes in the pattern of electricity
consumption.
36.     Institutional Responsibilities and Development.  Three ministries
share the responsibility for supervising the operational entities and
agencies involved in the energy sector. These are the Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources (MPNR), the Ministry of Water and Power (KWP), and the
Ministry of Production (MOP).  In addition, the Energy Division of the
Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD) has responsibility for energy
planning. Operational responsibilities in the sector are vested in a large
number of entities and agencies in both the public and the private sectors.
All of these entities and agencies come under the jurisdiction of MPNR,
except for three state organizations engaged in oil refining or
petrochemicals, the two electricity supply organizations and the Appropriate
Technology Development Corporation. Nuclear energy comes under the office of
the Prime Minister. Coordination between the ministries on energy matters is
secured through a number of committees, namely the National Energy Policy
Committee (NEPC), Energy Review Working Group (ERWC), the Economic
Coordination Committee (ECC), the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC), and the CentraL Development Working Party (CDWP).
NEPC is responsible for the formulation of COP's overall energy policy. ERWG
performs the functions of inter-ministerial coordination as well as monitors
the status of on-going projects in the public sector and endeavors to remove
the operational bottlenecks. The review ofk the financial plans of the sector



-15-
and the approval of energy pricing proposals is under the jurisdiction of
ECC. ECNEC and CDWP review and approve major proposals and projects in the
energy sector, as in other sectors.
37.     The main issue concerning the organization of the energy sector is
the multiplicity of ministries and committees responsible for planning,
coordinating and monitoring the performance of the public and private
enterprises involved in the production, transport and delivery of energy
products. This division of responsibility was spreading the scarce technical
resources among a large number of public agencies and reducing the effective-
ness of each agency. Consequently, under ESL, COP created under the purview
of MPD an energy planning unit (ENERPLAN) with USAID financing, an National
Energy Conservation Center (ENERCON) with joint USAID and Bank financing.
ENERPLAN is mandated to coLlect, compile and analyze, on an ongoing basis,
all relevant data on the energy sector and integrate them with the country's
annual, five-year and long-term development plans, to enable COP to identify
priorities and evaluate resource requirements to support effective policy
formulation and investment planning. Consultants have been recruited, and
about one-half of the sanctioned positions have been filled. Work is cur-
rently underway to (i) review the performance of the energy sector entities
during the current plan period; and (ii) prepare the Seventh Five-Year Plan
and a long-term (20-year) plan for the energy sector. Draft reports of these
plans are expected to be completed by mid-1987. These will be reviewed
jointly by the Bank and USAID. In a recent move, GOP has merged ENERPLAN
with the energy division of MPD to form an Energy Wing. The Bank supports
this decision fully, as it will further strengthen energy planning and
streamline the institutional setting.
38.     ENERCON was established to serve as a focal point for all conserva-
tion activities. It is administered by a Council for Energy Conservation,
comprising senior representatives from concerned ministries. The Council is
to be guided by an Advisory Committee, consisting of representatives from
COP, provincial governments, WAPDA and the Federal Chamber of Commerce and
Industries. It is responsible for planning energy conservation actions,
formulating policy guidelines, developing a data base, supporting training
activities and private research, undertaking development and demonstration as
well as public information activities, and monitoring the implementation of
conservation programs of various public and private entities.  Despite a
delay in its establishment and staffing, ENERCON has made substantial
progress in: (i) planning and legislation; (ii) data base development for
transport, building and industry; (iii) energy audits; (iv) training and
curriculum development; and (v) information and outreach programs. A draft
report on energy use in Pakistan's agricultural sector has also been comr
pleted and is expected to be submitted shortly to the Bank for review.



-16-
POWER SUBSECTOR
Organization of WAPDA and the Power Subsector
39.     WAPDA and KESC are the two organizations primarily responsible for
the generation, transmissio. and distribution of electricity in Pakistan.
WAPDA, the borrower of the proposed loan, is a well run and competent semi-
autonomous public agency established in 1958 to coordinate the development of
Pakistan's water and power resourcesz It is divided into two largely inde-
pendent "wings", one for power and the other for water. The Power Wing is
responsible for the construction and uperation of power generation, transmis-
sion and distribution facilities throughout the country, except for a small
area, comprising Karachi and its surroundings, which is served by KESC, a
private utility.
40.     In order to improve operating efficiency and customer service and
to streamline the decision making process, COP agreed under ESL to review
with the Bank the means and the timetable for reorganizing the power sector.
As a first step, a new Power Distribution Wing has been created in WAPDA and
its functions have been consolidated under the position of a Deputy Managing
Director. ECC has also approved a charter of terms and conditions under
which the private sector would be invited to participate in power generation.
A detailed framework for compensating potential private firms involved in the
supply of power in Pakistan is currently being formulated in collaboration
with the Bank and USAID. In addition, in order to promote the integrated
development of the power subsector, GOP is presently examining the legaL
implications of assigning to WAPDA the responsibility of generation and high
voltage transmission of electricity for the entire country and restricting
KESC's operation to the bulk purchase of power from WAPDA for distribution in
the Karachi area. One of the objectives of the National Deregulation
Commission, appointed by COP in August 1985, was to review the implications
of involving the private sector in the distribution of electricity. The
Commission's report has not yet been finalized.
Existing Facilities and Load Management Measures
41.     In June 1986, WAPDA's total installed generating capacity was
4,949 MW, of which 2,897 MW (59Z) was hydro and 2,052 MW (41%) thermal. The
maximum potential output of the existing hydro stations amounts to about
3,100 MW when all the reservoirs are full. This potential drops to about
1,000 MW during the dry season and has to be offset by thermal generation,
including the more extensive use of combustion turbines than for the normal
peak load, because of the overall shortage of generating capacity. According
to WAPDA, the shortfall between the demand and generation capability of its
system, was about 1,500 MW in January 1986 and about 1,200 MW in June 1986;
and it is expected to continue into the mid-1990s.



-17-
Pover Planning
42.     The slippages in the implementation of the investment program,
precipitated by both resource constraints and the absence of a mechanism that
would identify priority projects and the scale and timing of investments,
prompted WAPDA to formulate a national program for the development of gener-
ation facilities with the assistance of Argonne National Laboratory (ANL, US
agency) under financing from UNDP, with the Bank as the executing agency.
This plan was updated in December 1986 to incorporate the more recent
developments in the subsector. In addition, in order to strengthen in-house
power system planning capability, AJIL, under the auspices of the
International Atomic Energy Agency, has trained WAPDA's staff in the use of
th Wien Automatic System Planning (WASP III) computer model and has success-
fully installed that model on WAPDA's computer in early 1985. This has
enabled WAPDA to revise the national least-cost plan periodically to incor-
porate the updated information on the operation of the subsector, including
hydrology, water management and pattern of electricity consumption. GOP has
also requested financing from UNDP to establish a system for the ccllection,
storage and retrievaL of data on the power system.
WAPDA's Development Program
43.     WAPDA plans to increase its installed generation capacity from 4,949
MW to about 9,500 MW by 1993. This will involve the commissioning of about
2,400 MW of generating capacity now under construction. WAPDA envisages the
development of three major power complexes: (i) a hydropower complex in the
north at Kalabagh; (ii) a complex based on imported coal in the south near
Karachi; and (iii) between these, thermal capacities at Jamshoro based on
fuel oil, and at Lakhra based on domestic coal. This expansion would support
the fuller exploitation of Pakistan's energy resources.
44.     The concentration of major hydro-electric generation facilities in
the north and thermal facilities and load demand in the center and south
requires long distance bulk transmission of electricity. To ensure continued
efficient power transmission, WAPDA plans to construct over 2,000 km of
additional extra-high voltage (500 kV) lines in this period. In addition,
the 20 kV network and subtransmission systems are being expanded (under the
Fourth WAPDA Project) to ensure coordinated and integrated development with
the expanded extra-high voLtage and distribution systems. These actions will
also serve to reduce system losses which in FY86 were estimated at about 26%
of gross generation. WAPDA has completed a study with the assistance of
consultants financed by USAID to prepare detailed work and investment program
to reduce losses in the distribution network to economically acceptable
levels. The study is currently being reviewed by the Bank. In the area of
distribution and rural electrification, consultants financed by USAID are
preparing a comprehensive Master Plan for Power Distribution, which focuses
specifically on the distribution organization; analysis of energy loss;
criteria for selecting feeders for rehabilitation; plans for efficient dis-
tribution expansion and practices; load management; voltage regulation and



-18-
service reliability. The Bank, together with WAPDA and USAID, will review
the Master Plan prepared by consultants. This will serve as a basis for
identifying the transmission and distribution components of the CIP and for
selecting projects suitable for external financing.
The Bank Group Strategy and Involvement
45.     The Bank's broad objectives in the sector are to support the policies
initiated under ESL, and the allocation of resources for specific projects
included in the CIP. In the area of primary energy production, the Bank
would support the implementation of a comprehensive plan for the exploration
and development of hydrocarbons. In addition, it would support an investment
program aimed at the substitution of lower for higher vaLue products, par-
ticularly imported coal for gas in power generation and the release of gas
for use by industry and households as a substitute for imported petroleum
products. Emphasis would also be given to development of high priority hydro
schemes. Efforts would also be directed toward retrofitting and restructur-
ing the refinery subsector and other major energy consuming industries, as
well as the rationalization of the infrastructure for the transport of liquid
hydrocarbons and gas. The Bank would also support the formulation of plans
to bring domestic prices of energy products to parity with their respective
cost to the economy to rationalize consumption and mobilize resources for
GOP. Moreover, the Bank has directed its efforts to strengthening WAPDA's
management and technical capabilities.
46.     The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector began in
1955 with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station.
Since then, it has assisted in financing projects in all energy subsectors.
In the power subsector, the Bank has participated in the Indus Basin
Development Projects, which include the hydro developments at Mangla and
Tarbela. A series of four credits/loans were made to KESC between 1955 and
1967 for the development of its generation capacity. Since 1970, the Bank
has been more directly involved in GOP's program for the expansion of gener-
ating capacity and transmission and distribution networks, for which six
credits/loans were made to WAPDA. The first (Credit 213-PAK) of US$23
million, made in 1970, covered the cost of upgrading the transmission
network. The second operation, a Third Window loan (Loan 1208T-PAK) of US$50
million, subsequently reduced by US$15 million due to savings achieved under
international competitive bidding, was made in 1975 to finance the develop-
ment of part of the 500-kV transmission system to connect the hydro resources
of the north with the thermal generation in the center and south to provide
the most economic means of supplying power throughout the country. The
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) dated April 6, 1981 for the first
project (Credit 213-PAK) noted that, although the project was successfully
completed, there was a delay of about five years in project completion
because of WAPDA's inexperience in bid evaluation, in procurement and in
contract management; further, in an unsettled atmosphere fraught with politi-
cal and social problems WAPDA was understandably slow to accept new manage-
ment concepts. However, the PPAR dated December 26, 1985 for the second



-19-
project (Loan 1208T-PAK) noted that the project was satisfactorily imple-
mented at a substantially (37%) lower cost than originally estimated and with
a delay of only about 14 months in project completion. While this repre-
sented significant improvement in WAPDA's financial, operational, project and
overall management capability, some fundamental problems remain which are
being addressed in subsequent operations.
47.     The third operation (Credit 968-PAK) in the amount of US$45 million
was made to cover four years of WAPDA's program for the development of the
secondary transmission system (FY79-FY83), involving the erection of about
4,345 km of single and double circuit lines and the construction, expansion
and conversion of 216 substations. Implementation of this project has has
been completed satisfactorily. The fourth (Loan 2499-PAK), fifth
(Loan 2556-PAK) and sixth (Loan 2698-PAK) operations constitute the Bank's
portfolio of power projects under supervision. The fourth operation for an
amount of US$100 million covers the construction of a total of about 3,890 km
of transmission lines and 27 substations of the subtransmission system over
the period FY86-FY90. The fifth operation for an amount of US$100 million
would assist WAPDA in the installation of about 1,100 km of 500-kV transmis-
sion line between Lahore and Jamshoro and new 500-kV substations at Multan,
Cuddu, Dadu and Jamshoro. The sixth operation supports the installation of
200 MW of additionaL generating capacity through the conversion of existing
combustion turbines to combined cycle operation at Kot Addu. Progress in
the implementation of the fourth and fifth projects has been slower than
envisaged because of delays in the initiation of procurement. This problem
was further exacerbated by WAPDA remaining unaware of the recent changes in
the Bank's procurement procedures because of a six-year hiatus in lending
to WAPDA. Consequently, initial bidding documents prepared by WAPDA had to
be revised extensively. No further delays are anticipated in the implementa-
tion of these projects. Moreover, the Bank has recently approved standard
bidding documents for all projects to be executed by WAPDA.
48.     In addition to direct assistance to WAPDA, the Bank approved ESL in
1985 for an amount of US$178 million to support GOP's long term strategy for
the development of the energy sector. In the same year, under the umbrella
of ESL, the Bank approved a Petroleum Resources Joint Venture Project
(Loan 2553-PAK) for an amount of US$55 million with a view to financing the
Government's and OGDC's share of foreign exchange commitments under existing
joint ventures with private sector operators in Badin and North Potwar blocks
and new joint ventures to be firmed up during the next three years.
49.     Within the above framework, Bank assistance to the power subsector
focuses mainly on: reorganizing the subsector to optimize the use of scarce
financial and technical resources; strengthening WAPDA's managerial and
technical capabilities and on improving its overall financial management
capability; assisting in the implementation of high-prioritv projects; coor-
dinating the policies and programs for primary energy development with those
for power generation; increasing the utilization of available local energy
resources or lower cost imported fuel for power generation; and providing



-20-
financial and related support for projects aimed at improving the use of
existing generation facilities, reducing energy losses, implementing load
management programs, etc., in order to reduce the energy shortfall. The
proposed project, which is part of the CIP for the power subseccor, is con-
sistent with the policy framework established under ESL and with the objec-
tives stated above.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.     The proposed Project was prepared by WAPDA and was appraised by the
Bank in September 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
December 18 to December 23, 1986; the delegation from Pakistan was led by
Mr. Abdul Wahab Sheikh, Secretary, Ministry of Water and Power. A Staff
Appraisal Report, entitled "Pakistan: Power Plant Efficiency Improvement
Project" (Report No. 6390-PAK), dated March 7, 1987 is being circulated to
the Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as
Annex II. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness would include:
Ci) approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
CECNEC) of the PC-1 document for the proposed project; and (ii) fulfillment
of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of grant from Overseas
Development Administration (ODA), UK.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
51.     Shortage of power remains a binding constraint on Pakistan's
development, and the alleviation of these shortages is the focus of Bank
activities in the energy sector in the short- and medium-term. Toward this
end, the Bank assisted GOP under ESL in establishing a framework for
eliminating the continuing energy shcrtfall at least cost to the economy and
in formulating a strategy for the development of the energy sector as a
whole. The Bank has also encouraged the adoption of policies and the
implementation of projects to increase the efficiency of energy generation.
The continuation of this support provides the rationale for Bank involvement.
Project Objectives
52.     The objectives of the proposed Project are to:  (i) improve the
efficiency with which hydrocarbons are used by WAPDA in power generation;
(ii) provide about 120 MW of additional generating capacity through
rehabilitation of existing thermal units and about 80 MW through the conver-
sion of combustion turbines to combined cycle operation; and (iii) continue
the institution building efforts initiated under Bank Group's earlier lending
operations by strengthening WAPDA's capability in the operation and main-
tenance of thermal power stations and spare parts management.



-21-
Project Deucription
53.     The proposed Project would include:
(a) equipment, spares, tools and other materials required for the
rehabilitation of ateam unitb and combustion turbines at Sukkur,
Cuddu, Faisalabad, Quetta, Multan, Kotri and Shahdra;
(b) equipment, materials, civil works, and services for conversion of
eight combustion turbines to combined cycle operation at the Kotri
and Faisalabad power stations;
(c) consultancy services for detailed engineering, preparation of bidding
documents, supervision of implementation and development of systems
for maintenance and spare parts management; and
(d) training of WAPDA's staff in operation and maintenance.
The proposed Project would reduce atmospheric pollution by improving the
operating efficiency of the thermal power plants.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
54.     The proposed Project would be executed by WAPDA, which has acquired
extensive experience in the installation and operation of steam generating
units and combustion turbines. However, the proposed project involves:
(i) engineering of systems requiring replacement of equipment and retrofit-
ting of equipment; (ii) preparation of specifications and bidding documents
for equipment, materials and services required for rehabilitation and conver-
sion of combustion turbines to combined cycle operation; (iii) supervision of
implementation with particular emphasis on coordination of rehabilitation
work and plant outages with the system operation needs; and (iv) training of
WAPDA's staff in operation and maintenance practices. Since WAPDA has only
limited experience in design and engineering of steam and combined cycle
power plants and inadequate in-house design facilities, it has retained
consultants, financed by ODA, to assist in the design, preparation of bidding
documents and project schedules and supervision of implementation. In view
of the need to introduce computerized systems for maintenance and spare parts
management and WAPDA's limited experience in this field, consultants have
also been retained for the development and implementation of such systems as
well as for the training of WAPDA's staff in their use.
55.     The proposed Project will be implemented concurrently at seven
locations. It involves procurement of a large variety of equipment and
materials financed by different donor agencies, whose installation would have
to be coordinated with outage schedules and ongoing maintenance to minimize
the duration for which each unit is taken out of operation. As WAPDA has
little experience in coordinating the concurrent implementation of such
activities, it has established a group for plant improvement under General



-22-
Manager (Thermal) to coordinate implementation, liaise with the Consultants
and act aS counterparts to them.
56.     With respect to project monitoring, WAPDA will submit to the Bank
quarterly reports covering the work of consultants, physical progress,
project costs, disbursements and the administrative aspects of the proposed
Project. Annual financial and administrative reports will also be submitted.
Project Cost
57.     The total cost of the proposed Project, including taxes and duties
(US$25.4 million) and price and physical contingencies (US$34.6 million),
is estimated at about US$147 million. With the addition of interest during
construction (about US$16.0 milLion) the total financing required would
amount to about US$163 million of which about US$109 million would be in
foreign exchange. These estimates are based on mid-1986 prices. Escalation
of local cost is assumed at 8% for FY86, 7.75% for FY87, 7.50% for FY88,
7.25% for FY89, 7% for FY90, and 5.50% for FY91. Escalation for foreign cost
is assumed at 4.2% for FY86, 6.96% for FY87, 6.82% for FY88, 6.93% for FY89,
7.061 for FY90, and 5.50X for FY91. A provision of 12% of the base cost has
been made for physical contingencies, given the special nature of the
proposed Project. Total price escalation amounts to about 17% of the base
cost and physical contingencies.
Project Financing
58.     The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million would be made to WAPDA with
GOP as the guarantor; it would finance about 64% of the foreign exchange
requirements of the proposed Project or 51% of total project costs net of
taxes and duties; the remaining foreign exchange requirements would be met
by USAID, ODA and GOP. WAPDA would meet about US$54 million of local financ-
ing from its internal sources. WAPDA would bear the interest rate risks and
COP would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement
59.     Procurement of equipment, materials and services financed by the Bank
will be in accordance -with Bank Guidelines. The following are the procure-
ment arrangements:



-23-
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS L
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method /b
ICB       LCB      Other        Total
Civil Works                          -        10.4         -         10.4
Main Plant Rehabilitation           22.2      -          30.7        52.9
(17.7)               (10.0)      (27.7)
Conversion to Combined Cycle        50.2       -           -         50.2
(39.8)                           (39.8)
Fuel Handling System                 -         -          1.7         1.7
Substation Equipment                 -         -          8.2         8.2
Workahop Equipment                   2.0       2.0        4.0         8.0
C 1.5)                            (1.5)
Townships                            -         1.2         -          1.2
Consultants & Training              -           -         8.9         8.9
(1.0)       (1.0)
Administration                       ,          -         5.4         5.4
74.4      13.6       58.9       146.9
(59.0)               (11.0)      (70.0)
ja  The figures in parentheses are the respective amounts which would be
financed by the Bank.
jb  ICB   - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding.
Other - Direct negotiation, Limited International Bidding (LIB), or
not subject to commercial procurement.
60.     Contracts financed under the proposed Loan for the supply and erec-
tion of equipment and materials would be awarded through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), except where rehabilitation work financed under
the proposed Loan involves proprietary equipment or small quantities of
specialized items viich can be obtained economically and expeditiously from
major international manufacturers through direct contracting or Limited
International Bidding (LIB). Items financed by USAID and ODA would be
procured in accordance with their respective procedures. About 51% of works,
goods and services for the proposed Project would be procured through ICB.
Documents for individual contracts above US$1,000,000 equivalent would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. Local suppliers and manufacturers
competing for supply of goods under ICB would have a preference of 15% or the
applicable duty, whichever is less.



-24-
Disbursements
61.     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:  Ci) 100% of
CIF cost of imported goods or ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods
and 80% of expenditures for erection, both being subject to ICB; and
(ii) 100% of foreign cost of training. Disbursements up to US$10 million
wiLl also be made against CIF cost of imported goods procured through LIB
and direct contracting. Disbursements will be fully documented except for
payments under contract costing less than US$250,000. Such disbursements
would be made against statement of expenditures (SOEs), the documentation
of which will not be submitted to the Bank but retained for inspection by
the supervision mission. The standard procedures for auditilng SOEs would
apply. In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be
established the National Bank of Pakistan. The initial deposit in the
Special Account would be US$5.0 million, representing the estimated average
expenditures for a four-month period for the items financed by the Bank. The
Project contains a provision for retroactive financing of up to US$2.5 mil-
lion for expenditures incurred after December 1, 1985.
WAPDA's Financial Position
62.     Over the past five years, the financial position of WAPDA's Power
Wing continued the improvement begun since FY81 with the debt/equity ratio
improving from 61:39 in FY79 to 53:47 at the end of FY86. As WAPDA's
revenues and operating income generally kept pace with increases in asset
base between FY81-86, the utility was able to achieve an average race of
return of about 17% on historically-valued net assets in operation o-r 10Z on
proforma revalued assets. WAPDA's ratio of current assets to current
liabilities and the coverage of debt service from internally-generated
revenues also was satisfactory during the period FY81-86. During this same
period, except FY85, WAPDA was able to finance over 50% of is capital expen-
ditures from internally-generated revenues. The relatively high self-
financing ratios were achieved mainly because of substantial slippages in the
implementation of the planned investment program precipitated by resource
constraints stemming from inadequate tariff increases and reductions in
budgetary allocations. In FY85, by contrast, the planned investment program,
which was substantially larger than the investment program for the preceding
year, was implemented fully. However, since tariffs were not increased,
WAPDA's self-financing ratio fell below the covenanted level of 40X to 37%.
In order to ensure greater concurrence between planned and actual investments
and enable WAPDA to achieve the covenanted self-financing ratio, agreement
was reached with GOP and WAPDA under ESL (Loan 2552-PAK) on a three-year core
investment program for FY86-B8 and on the implementation of measures needed
to ensure that at least 40% of it is financed from WAPDA's internal sources.
Accordingly, tariffs were increased by 10% for all consumer categories effec-
tive July 1, 1985. Provisional data for FY86 indicate that the shortfalls in
the implementation of the investment program for FY86 are small relative to
the past and WAPDA would achieve a self-financing ratio of about 48%.



-25-
63.     Between FY86 and FY93, gross fixed assets are projected to grow from
about Rs 43 billion to about Rs 158 billion, and equity from about Rs 2
billion to over Rs 76 billion; retained earnings are expected to account for
86% of the increase in equity. Over the same period, long-term debt is
forecast to increase from about Rs 24 billion to about Rs 1 billion resulting
in a projected debt/equity ratio of 59:41 in FY93, which is reasonable for an
electric utility. The coverage of debt service by internal cash generation
and the ratio of current assets to current liabilities would be satisfactory
during this period.  Nevertheless, the debt servicing capacity of WAPDA would
continue to be monitored. Therefore, the debt Limitation covenant, first
agreed under the Fourth WAPDA Project, is retained for this project to ensure
that WAPDA would consult the Bank should it seek to incur new debt that would
result in internal cash generation (before debt service and payment to GOP)
falling below 1.5 times the debt service requirement.
Financial/Commercial Operations
66.     WAPDA seeks continuously to streamline and strengthen further its
financial and commercial operations and establish modern accounting and
commercial systems. A critical constraint, especially in the accounting
department, has been the shortage of qualified staff to fill key positions.
ln an effort to strengthen this department, new Accounting Sertice Rules have
been drafted, which in contrast to the existing rules would permit the
recruitment of qualified financial personnel from outside WAPDA, to fill
middle and higher level financial positions; these new draft rutes are being
reviewed for presentation to the Authority for approval. Further, the
institution-building work being carried out by WAPDA under Bank-financed
projects is being compLemented with substantial support under USAID's Power
Distribution Project which is providing technical assistance and training on
a large scale and over a broad range of functions.
Government Arrears
65.     Given the magnitude of WAPDA's operations, its overall accounts
receivable, amounting to 2.6 months' sales as of end FY86 are satisfactory.
However, Government departments and agencies were delinquent in paying their
bills on time. Receivables from this category of consumers had increased
from Rs 617 millon representing 3.5 months' sales as of December 31, 1985 to
Rs 889 million representing 5 months' sales as of February 28, 1986, despite
the agreement reached under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project which requires GOP
to cause all government departments and agencies to pay their electricity
bilLs within three months of receipt of the bill beginning January 1986. GOP
and WAPDA had informed the Bank that the delinquent departments were with-
holding payment because some portion of the bilLs were in dispute. The Bank
was also informed that since approximately 20% of the amount billed is under
dispute, GOP had directed all departments and agencies in arrears to pay all
uncontested receivables (approximately 80% of the outstandings) to WAPDA by
March 31, 1986. Furthermore, the Finance Ministry had authorized deduction



-26-
of appropriate amounts at the budgetary source. if the uncontested receiv-
ables were not paid by the specified date. Accordingly, about Rs 393 million
have been paid to WAPDA by COP through budgetary deductions thus reducing the
arrears owed by Government departments and agencies to 2.7 months' level. In
order to ensure that WAPDA's cash flows are not adversely affected by the
high levels of receivables from Government departments and agencies, GOP will
cause all Federal and Provincial Governmental Agencies and Departments to
pay all bills for the supply of electricity by WAPDA within three months of
receipt of bill.
Audit and Insurance
66.     WAPDA's internal audit system needs to be improved and strengthened
so that it can fulfill its role as a key and reliable management tool.
Consequently, as agreed under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project, consultants
financed by USAID have been engaged to develop a modern internal audit
system; their work is expected to be completed by March 1988.
67.     The external audit function is performed by the Auditor General of
Pakistan; this arrangement will continue until the new internal audit system
is installed and the new accounting system is fully operational so that an
informed judgement may be made on the quality of this audit. While the Bank
has agreed to this arrangement, it has reserved the right to monitor it
constantly and to request, should any problems arise, an independent audit
consistent with Bank guidelines.
68.     With respect to insurance, WAPDA operates a self-insurance scheme
that is administered independently by a Board of Management with the assis-
tance of actuarial consultants. The Bank has reviewed these insurance arran-
gements and found them acceptable.
Sales
69.     Annual growth of eLectricity sales by WAPDA for the ten-year period
FY76-FY85 has averaged just over 1%. This increase was due to the rising
demand for electricity by the industrial sector where growth of real output
was significant; strong household and commercial demand fueled by workers'
remittances from the Gulf States; and the decline in electricity tariffs in
real terms. However, over the next ten years (FY86-FY95), electricity sales
are projected to increase at an annual average rate of about 10%, reflecting
supply constraints, projected increases in real tariffs and successful con-
servation efforts. This forecast is used as the basis for assessing the
benefits of the Project.
Benefits
70.     The economic rate of return on the proposed Project is about 16%
based on the measurable costs and benefits. The measurable costs include:
(i) the capital cost of equipment, material and services required for the



-27-
rehabilitation and retrofitting of WAPDA's thermal power plants;
(ii) operation and maintenance cost which are assumed at about 52 of the
capital cost of the equipment; and (iii) incremental fuel cost associated
with additional generating capacity made available through rehabilitation.
The investments in the existing power plants to be rehabilitated and
retrofitted are considered sunk and were not included in the calculation,
thus contributing to the high return on investment. The measurable benefits
include revenues associated with the incremental sales attributable to the
proposed project and savings in fuel consumption due to improvement in heat
rate. The rate of return for the proposed project compares favorably with
the opportunity cost of capital and reflects the fact that it was designed to
take advantage of investment decision already made.
Risks
71.     The proposed Project presents no unusual risks, except those arising
from shortage of generating capacity during periods of poor hydrological
conditions which would render thermal power plants unavailable for
rehabilitation and retrofitting. However, the probability of the poor
hydrological conditions recurring in all the three years is remote, and the
five-year disbursement schedule allows for such eventualities. Risk of
damage due to fire, explosion, etc. would be covered by the respective sup-
pliers and contractors during the construction and, after commissioning, by
WAPDA through its insurance policies which are satisfactory.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
72.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
March 19, 1987



MEUI
STATUS OF BANK GROU OPERATIONS IN PAISTAN
A.  STrATENNT or BANIK LOANS UED 10A CRDIOTS (a. of Seotember 30. 1966) /. & L
(055 million)
Loonl                                                    (Amount net of cencellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                India-
Number     Year    Puran4                                 inek       IDA        bur1
108 lassa and credita fully dishuraed                   821.7    1,265.6
754       1978   Salinity Control & teelmation           -           70.0         65.0
077       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Cardan)    -              60.0         45.2
974       1980   Third Righway                           -           50.0          7.2
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                     -           25.0          7.0
1157/c    1981   Crain Storage                           -           32.0         14.7
11581.    1981   Agricultural Research                   -           24.0         13.4
11861t    1982   Induatrial Developmnt (lIDP 1I)         -           30.0          2.1
2122      1982   Fourth Teleco_unicacion                 40.0        -             3.0
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rebabilitation   38.5           -            16.1
2247      1983   Reservoir Maintenance FaciLities         10.2       -             9.8
2305      1983   Agricultural Bev. (C5D? V)              10.0        -             2.1
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Cas Pipelines        43.0        -            29.6
1239S/    1982   Irrigation Syacas Rebabilitation    -               40.0         17.0
124311    l18    Baluehistan linor Irrig. & Agr.         -           14.0         11.8
12561e    1982   Technical Asciatance                    -            7.0          1.6
1348/c    1983   Lahore Urban Development                -           16.0         16.3
1350kL   1983   Population                               -           18.0         14.3
13551c    1983   Coal Engineering                        -            7.0          6.3
1374Lg    1983   Karachi Water Supply                    -           25.0         18.7
13751.   1983   Fourth Drainage                          -           65.0         68.6
13801.    1983  A4ricultura1 Devetopment (ADsP 7)    -               47.8          2.5
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0       -             7.9
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                   51.5        --           32.0
2374      1984   Second TDot Oil and Gas Development  30.0           --           15.2
2380      1984   Industrial Inveatment Credit            50.0        -            32.0
1439/e    1984   Industrial Inveatment Credit            -           50.0         26.9
l1Glc    1984   Integrated Kill Farming Development  -              21.0         21.7
IU80t    1984   Second Technical Asaistvnce             --           7.0          5.7
1487k    1984   Comand Weter Management                  --          46.5         44.2
1499LS.   1984   Second Sall Indusctrie                  -           50.0         35.1
153Z/c    1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I                  150.0        175.3
1533k    1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extenaion   -                8.3          9.0
2499      1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                     100.0        --          100.0
1602k    1985   Second Primary Education                 --          52.5         60.5
1603k    1985   Second On-Farm Water anasgeuent          -           34.5         38.2
2552      1985   Energy Sector Loao                     178.0        -           164.1
2553      1985   Petroleum Resourcee Joint Venture    55.0           -            31.7
2556      1985   Fiftb WAPDA Pover                      100.0        -           100.0
2648k    1986   Induecrial Investment Credit            143.0                    148.0
1646ke   1986   Induatrial Investmnent Credit                         2.0          2.4
16521e    1986   Karachi Special Developent                          70.0         74.5
1670/4    1986   Second Vocational Training              -           40.2        b4.4
1693Ld    1986   SCARP Transition Pilot                              10.0         10.6
1699,1   1986   Agric. Dew. flnk of Pakiatan VI          -           55.0         57.8
2693      1986  AMric. Dav. Sank of Pakistan VI         165.0        -           165.0
26981/    1986   lot Addu Combined Cycle                 90.0        -            90.0
2701      1986   Export Development                      70.0        -            70.0
274311    1987   Teleecmmicatione V                                              nLoazi.0
.otal                                                 2,112.9    2.393.4       2.040.4
of whicb bha  been repaid                             a2u 0     -55a0
Total now outstanding                                 1.580.9    2,338.4
Amount sold                   30.0
of whicbh ba  been repaid    25J8                      4.2          -
Total mnw held by Sank and IDA:                       1576i7    2.338L  4
Totel undiaburead                                     141165        93239      2 L00LA
/a  The statue of the projecta liated in Part A is described in a separate report
on all 3auk/IDA financial projects in execution, which ie updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directora on April 30 and October 31.
Lk  ExcLudee the disbureed portion of loans and credita wholly or partly for pro-
jects in the former Heat Pakiaten which have now    n taken over by BangLadeeb.
le  IDA Credite nuder the 6th and 7th Replenishments &   denominted in SDs. The
principal and non-effective Credits are abhow in U3$ equivalent at the time of
eegotiatione.  Disbureed aounte are computed at the exchange rate applicable
on the traneaction dates. Jadiebureed amounts are valued at the exbcange rate
applicable on the date of this statement.
Li Not yet effective.



ANNE I
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1986)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Oblipor               Tyye of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63     --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     -         0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industriee Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing                      0.52      0.32
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
19B0-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36       2.76
*     1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16      3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistau Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals      103.31    1.56    104.87
1985     National Dev.         Honey and  -
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.       5.49    0.37       5.86
1986     Mari Gas              Chemicals and
Petrochemicals      45.77      --       45.77
Total Gross Comitments                    231.72   11.32    243.04
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              163.46    0.38    163.84
Total Commitmeuts Now Held by IFC          68.26   10.94      79.20
Undisbursed (including participants)       41.9B    0.32      42.30



Annex II
PAKISTAN                         page 1
POWER PLANT EFFICIEIXY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Four monchs
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
WAPDA.
(c) Date oE first presentation to the Bank, and date of the
first Bank mission to consider the project:
September 1985; September 1985.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;
September 20, 1985.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
December 23, 1986.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
July 6, 1987.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Approval by the Executive Committee of the Pakistan
National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1 document
for the project (para 50); and
(b) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to effectiveness
of ODA grant (para 50).



ANNEX lI
Page 2
Other Special Conditions
(a) WAPDA to finance at least 40% of its investment program from
internal sources (repeated from Loan 2499-PAR), et al., para
63);
(b) WAPDA to consult with the Bank before incurring new debt result-
ing in internal cash generation falling below 1.5 times the debt
service requirement (repeated from Loan 2499-PAR, at al, para
64); and
(c) GOP to cause all Federal and Provincial governmental Agencies
and Departments to pay all bills for the supply of electricity
by WAPDA within three montbs of receipt of the bill (para 66).



Prom Manjea      LAHORE  RING                          U  5 S R                  1,         r-HINA                                                                                        TPos map hax bow prep ted by
x                                                                                     i                                                                                                       I'he WXU &nk's staff &=Lm*
L   SHAH KAKU                                           Aeoi? of Vgo                                                                                                               for V* can ea-AWXL. of am
Ns
readeirs ard a exdaMW kw &e
riternal (As Cd The WOW Bw*
AFG  ANISTAN                                                                                                                     Corwaban rho d..*wfiom
us-d " ft bwiaWies sho*n
zn tt-s moP do not rnp,. an Ow
dr,                                                                      1--  .40,                                     irlf-bo-l Fronco CcMwabmt
0--                                                                                                                                                                               a ,py XdpTmnt on Me kvjj staba
cc                                                                                                                                          of arly to-tory or any
eric$orsemeni or acceolarce of
'O                                           P A K I S 7 A N
s4xh bowidanes
-0
<1
I N D I A
MULTAN                                                                                                                                                                    oz4su
ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                        Approllmole
A.-ce"o,  Soo-                                                                                                                 .........          of Comyro/
EW  KOT                                                         7                 rj                                                                                      ...............
LAKHPAT                                                          0.                                                                                                                            34%
WARSAIV,                                       -4*
OW                                    ABELA,
FAISALABAD RING
0
From rarbula
v.
A,
'le                                        1.3
CHINIO          .0      GATI                                                                                                                                                         A?JGI
0,
V
0-                   KALARAP
C7                                                                                                                            %
NISPIArABA                                                                                                                   r  AUD KHEL
SLASA
CHA%W
AD
itIt                                                                          A                                                          4':
o
ro Now Milla
7
;]ij A                        A           N    00T iAKHFAT
00.A
IL
A I
30'
OUETTA
11 W1.7



e   (                                       0                                                                              - PAKISTAN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                       \ >  \  g l o K POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY
O    KHUZDAR                                                                              . SHIKARP     IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
os                >'oZ        ¢><KtJR 0                                        Main Power Stations and Transmission  Lines
N~~~~~~~~~~~~
6                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4t11. 51h1.
N                                    X                                      / UNDER  KOT ADDU
0N n    sr                                                     CONSTRUCTION  COMBINED  PROPOSED
OR     CYfCLE POWER  POWER
EXISTING    PLANNED    PROJECTS   PROJECT
TRAN5MISSIDI. LINES-
k  \1 §MORO |           \,  _                                                                 OO/-32 kV
......                  ~~~~~66/132 kV
-26'                                                                    J \!  0t  1   w   j   )                                      GRID STATIONS                 26'
4D \\      /    ,    eNEW 500 kV
C                  EXTENSIONS OF EXISTING 500 IV
,\                                                                                      0 0                            500kV
S LAKHRA\Ie t S0        Q                  220 kV
LAKHRA~~                                               ~     ~~~~~ S  0   0                  132kV
JAMSHORO             -                             1         ' '                                        66 kV
\   JAMS>  A  t.A?OAO              \                                                    POWER STATIONS.
IKARAC                                         -                                                                     HYDROELECTRIC
&/MILE          4                                                                     A                       AL     THERMAL
KARACHI NUCLEAR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ULIA
XARACHINUA                                                                                                  NUL
POWER PLANTt            '                       -        ,\
POWER  . X                                              (I Q_._INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
6                 nt%..-,       --.-%f-                           0              100 I           200             300 KILOMETERS
z                                           ,-.J                                                                            10                        200 MILES           D
66'                                                        70-                                                        7A                                co



I



