Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6390-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAK(ISTAN
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 7, 1987
Energy Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted ( stribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit          =    Pakistan Rupees (PRs)
Rupee 1                -    Paisa 100
Rupee 1                =    US$0.0593
Rupees 1,000,000       =    US$59,300
US$1                   2    PRs 16.87
US$1,0000000           =    PRs 16t870,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)               -    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Ton (t)                      -    1,000 kilograms (kg)=2,200 pounds (lbs)
1 Kilovolt (kV)                =    1,000 volts (V)
1 Megawatt (MW)                =    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)        =    1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 Kilowatt hour (kWh)          =    1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)                1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 Kilocalorie (Kcal)           =    3.97 British Therma'. Units (BTU)
1 Ton of oil equivalent (toe) =    10 million kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -   Asian Development Bank
ADP        -   Annual Development Plan
AEB        -   Area Electricity Board
ANL        -   Argonne National Laboratory
CIDA       -   Canadian International Development Agency
CIP        -   Core Investment Program
CDWP       -   Central Development Working Party
ECC        -   Economic Coordination Committee
ENERCON    -   Energy Conservation Unit
ENERPLAN   -   Energy Planning Unit
ECNEC      -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERWG       -   Energy Review Working Group
ESL        -   Energy Sector Loan
GOP        -   Government of Pakistan
IERR       -   Internal Economic Rate of Return
KESC       -   Karachi Electric Supply Corporation, Ltd.
LRMC       -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
MPD        -   Ministry of Planning and Development
MPNR       -   Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
NEPC       -   National Energy Policy Committee
ODA        -   Overseas Development Administration
OCDC       -   Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PARCO      -   Pakistan Arab Company
PMDC       -   Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PSO        -   Pakistan State Oil Company
SGC        -   Southern Gas Company
SNGPL      -   Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Ltd.
USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Program
WAPDA      -   Water and Power Development Authority
GOP AND WAPDA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMFROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower           : Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Guarantor          : Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount              : US$70.0 million equivalent
Terms               : Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest fate
Project Description: The primary objective of the Project is to improve
the efficiency of the existing power stations
and make available additional generating capacity
needed to minimize the anticipated shortfalls in
electricity at least cost to the economy. The
Project would add about 120 MW of generating capacity
through rehabilitation and about 80 MW through
conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle
operation. It would also promote the more efficient
use of energy by reducing the consumption of fuel
per kWh of power generated. In addition, the
Project would strengthen WAPDA's capability in the
operation and maintenance of thermal power station
and spare parts management. No unusual risks are
foreseen in project implementation. Slippages,
however, could occur due to delay in procurement and
appointment of contractors. This would be minimized
by engaging consultants for the preparation of
bidding documents in accordance with the implementation
schedule. Although there is a risk that current
power and energy shortages may delay project
implementation, this risk is minimized, given GOP and
WAPDA's commitment to improving the efficiency of
generating units and reducing load shedding.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs l/ :
Local         Foreign         Total
-- --- -...U8$ Mill ion- -------
Civil Works                           7.2             0.5            7.7
Main Plant Rehabilitation            11.2            29.6          40.8
Conversion to Combined Cycle         11.2            27.0          38.2
Fuel Handling System                  0.5             0.9            1.4
Substaticr Equipment                  1.9             4.4           6.3
Workshop Equipment                    1.8             4.4           6.2
Township                              0.9               -           0.9
Consultancy Services & Training       0.6             6.2           6.8
Administration                        4.0               -           4.0
Total Baseline Costs                 39.3            73.0         112.3
Physical Contingencies           4.7            8.7           13.4
Price Contingencies              8.1            13.1          21.2
Total Project Costs                  52.1            94.8         146.9
Interest During
Construction                   1.7            14.2          15.9
Total Financing Required        53.8           109.0         162.8
Financing Plar.:
IBRD                                    _            70.0          70.0
USAID                                   -            15.0          15.0
ODA                                     -             5.3           5.3
WAPDA                                53.8               -          53.8
GOP                                     -            18.7          18.7
53.8          109.0          162.8
St=
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD                                   FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92
-------U8$ Million…          -
AnnuAl                                   6      24       27      12       1
Cumulative                               6      30       57      69      70
Rate of Return: 16%
:  IBRD 19782
1/ Including local duties and taxes of US$25.4 million.



{iii
PAKISTAN
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I* THE ENERGY SECTOR *         .......................................  1
A.  Energy Resources          .....................................  1
B.  Developments in the Energy Sector, FY73-FY85 .... ......        1
C. Review of Progress Made in Implementing the
Energy Sector Strategy         3....................*..     3
D.  The Bank Group Strategy and Involvement        7.............   7
^   Organization of WAPDA          .................................  8
B.  Existing Facilities          ...................................  9
C.  Power Planning                                                 10
III.  THE PROJECT                         ....                           12
IV.  FINANCE ....         ...................    ...............    19
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ............          .    .........    28
A.  Forecasts of WAPDA'S Electricity SaLes         ................    28
B. Least Cost Alternative                      e                  29
C* Return on Investment ...............................    30
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........0o0..*.. .....              30
This report was prepared by Messrs. S. Babbar (Engineer), H. Sharma
(Economist-Consultant), R. Sharma ( Financial Analyst), and E. Linard de
Guertechin (Engineer).



iv
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.1   -   Review of Progress Made in Implementing
the Energy Sector Strategy          ........................    32
1.2   -   Organization Chart - Energy Sector         ....................    38
2.1   -   Organization Chart - WAPDA .........       ..................    39
2.2   -   Organization Chart - Power Wing          ......................    40
2.3   -   Forecast Electricity Generation           ......................    41
2.4   -   Thermal Power Generation Statistics         ..................    42
3.1   -   Project Description           .................................    44
3.2   -   Project Cost                      ....                       48
3.3   -   Organization Chart and Staffing Plan -
Plant Improvement Group          ...........................    51
3.4   -   Implementation Schedule           ..............................    52
3.5   -   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements         ..................    53
4.1   -   WAPDA's Balance Sheets .                                     54
4.2   -   WAPDA's Income Statements           ...........................    55
4.3   -   WAPDA 's Sources and Application of Funds Statements   .  56
4.4   -   Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts ........    57
4.5   -   WAPDA's Investment Program, FY86-FY93         ................    60
4.6   -   Summary of Status and Plans for Strengthening
Financial and Commercial Operations under the WAPDA/
USAID Power Distribution Project         ..................    62
5.1   -   Actual and Projected Power Demand and Energy Sales ...    67
5.2   -   Assumptions for Rate of Return on Project        ............    68
6.1   -   Documents and Information in the Project File    .......    71
MAP
IBRD 19782.



PAKISTAN
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPRI)VEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REr;RT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Energy Resources
1.01    Pakistan's commercielly exploitable domestic energy resources consist
in order of importance of hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal. The country
also has a large base of renewable energy in the form of agricultural and
animal wastes,  and solar  and wind  energy.   The  hydropower  potential  is
estimated at about 30,000 MW, of which only 2,897 MW has been developed and
1,928 MW is under construction or at an advanced stage of preparation. In
addition, 3,600 MW will be added when the site at Kalabagh is fully
developed. Natural gas is Pakistan's main commercially exploitable hydrocar-
bon resource, with proven and probable reserves estimated at about 340
million tons of  oil equivalent (toe).   Proven and probable  reserves of oil
are estimated at about 58 million toe. Although the prospeLcts for increasing
the supply of domestic hydrocarbons are good, this would require increased
private sector participation in exploration to reduce the risk borne by the
Government of Pakistan (GOP)(para 1.08). Coal and lignite reserves are
estimated at about 900 million tons, of which only 175 million tons are
proven. GOP has outlined a systematic program for the formulation of a
comprehensive coal exploration strategy to determine the reserves where
further assessment is justified. The first phase of the program would be
implemented in 1987 and 1988. GOP is also assessing, under financing from
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) the potential
for stimulating increased private sector involvement in coal production using
the reserves at Lakhra as a model (para 2.07). If the results at Lakhra are
favorable, the same model could be applied to other promising areas.
B. Developments in the Energy Sector, FY73-PY85
1.02    Pakistan's  indigenous energy  resources have  been  developed  at  a
substantially slower pace than warranted, mainly because of financial con-
straints. Moreover, as policies to restrain the growth of consumption also
were inadequate, the country's dependence on imported energy increased. The
import bill for energy increased from 8% of total imports in FY73 to 18% in
FY78 when medium-term planning was resumed. In recognition of the possible
adverse impact on the economy of the sustained growth in the demand for
energy and increased dependence on imported energy, the Fifth Five-Year Plan



-2-
(FY79-FY83) emphasized the accelerated development of domestic energy resour-
ces and rationalization of consumption. However, as the plan targets were
not achieved, GOP gave high priority to the development of the energy sector
in the  Sixth Five-Year  Plan (FY84-FY88).   Accordingly, its  share  of  the
resources  was  increased,   and  several  important   policy  measures  were
initiated. Despite these actions, it became evident during the first two
years of the Plan that its supply targets were not likely to be achieved
fully.  As in the  Fift:i Plan, this was  mainly due to:   (i) the shortage of
financial resources, precipitated by the underpricing of natural gas and
electricity (paras 1.08 and 1.09) which, in turn, stimulated consumption and
resulted in severe and frequent supply interruptions; and (ii) the absence of
a system for setting priorities in investment and mobilizing resources for
their implementation. The shortfalls in the supply targets, together with
the high likelihood that resource constraints would continue into the
immediate future, prompted GOP to formulate, with assistance from the Bank, a
comprehensive development strategy to address the major sectoral issues. It
involves a two-pronged approach. The first focuses on minimizing the short-
falls in energy during the remaining three years (FY86-PY88) of the current
Plan period. Hence, it concentrates on (i) the implementation of a Core
Investment Program (CIP) of high priority projects; and (ii) the adoption of
policy actions and institutional reforms needed to mobilize sufficient
resources for executing these projects, restrain the growth of demand for
energy, and enhance the efficiency of energy production and consumption. The
second calls for studies which would provide the inputs needed to promote the
integrated development of the sector during the Seventh and Eighth Plan
periods. It was in support of this strategy that an Energy Sector Loan
(ESL)(Ln. 2552-PAK) was made to the GOP to assist in covering the cost of
equipment, materials and services needed for the implementation of the CIP.
The proceeds of the loan were to be released in two tranches, each contingent
on satisfactory progress in the implementation of agreed measures. The funds
under each tranche were to be disbursed until the closing of the loan and
hence, the second tranche was to be released before the first was disbursed
fully.
1.03    The  first tranche  of the  ESL was  released at  Loan effectivenesst
following the adoption of a new producer pricing formula for natural gas
(para 1.08) and the introduction of an increase in the Water and Power
Development Authority's  (WAPDA) tariffs  (para 1.09).   The release  of  the
second tranche, originally scheduled for July 1, 1986, was contingent ont
(i) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the CIP for PY86 and in
mobilizing resources for the CIP for FY87; and (ii) implementation of actions
needed to ensure that 40X of WAPDA's CIP for FY87 was financed from internal
sources. The release of the second tranche, however, has been delayed
because  actions  needed  to   comply  with  covenant   relating  to  WAPDA's
self-financing ratio were not taken until October 1986, five months later
than the agreed date. The Bank has reviewed the actions taken by GOP and has
found them to be satisfactory (para 1.09). As the two conditions precedent
to the release of the second tranche have now been met and satisfactory
progress has been made in implementing the energy sector strategy in FY86,
this tranche is expected to be released shortly.



-3-
C. Review of Progress in Implementing the Energy Sector Strategy
1.04    The  issues identified  and the  progress made  in  implementing  the
actions outlined to address them are discussed below and summarized in Annex
1.1 under three headings: (i) investment and development; (ii) pricing and
demand  management;  and  (iii) institutional   development.  Investment  and
Development. The first step involved in the formulation of the strategy was
to revise the supply targets and outline a CIP that covers the remaining
three years of the Sixth Plan (FY86-PY88). The CIP calls for predetermined
annual allocations for the implementation of projects needed to achieve the
revised supply targets and ensure a smooth transition into the Seventh Plan.
The CIP for the power subsector was formulated on the basis of a least cost
plan and consists of generation, transmission and distribution projects to be
implemented by WAPDA and  the Karac!'i Electricity  Supply Corporation (KESC).
The CIP for the petroleum subsector covers the Oil and Gas Development Cor-
poration's (OCDC) exploration and development program of specific low risk
gas and oil prone areas. A program parallel to that of OGDC was outlined for
the development of fields suitable for attracting risk capital through joint
venture. In addition, CIPs consisting of priority project also were outlined
for the Sui Northern Cas Pipeline Ltd. (SNGPL), Pakistan State Oil (PSO),
Karachi Gas Company, which was subsequently merged with Indus Gas Company to
form the Southern Gas Company (SGC)(para 1.06), Pakistan Mineral Development
Corporation (PMDC) and the Energy Conservation Unit, which was to be estab-
lished (paras 1.11 and 1.12).
1.05    The Bank has  reviewed the progress  made by the  eight energy sector
entities in implementing their respective CIPs for FY86 and found it to be
satisfactory. WAPDA, OGDC, PMDC and ENERCON, the four public sector entities
whose investment programs are financed through the Annual Development Program
(ADP), were allocated Rs 10,980 million in FY86, a reduction of only 13X
relative to  the financial  reouirement of  Rs 12,660  million for  the  CIP.
Except in the case of ENEROON, whose establishment and staffing was delayed
(para 1.12), most of this reduction was in response to the slump in the
international market which reduced the price of equipment, materials and
services needed for the implementation of the CIP. In fact, cost savings,
together with the more efficient deployment of resources, enabled OGDC to
reduce its expenditures to levels below those allocated under ADP and drill
two more wells than were agreed to under the ESL, nine compared to seven.
Unlike OGDC, WAPDA9, however, was unable to utilize fully the resources allo-
cated under ADP and hence, fell short of achieving the physical targets of
the CIP for generation. The shortfall in WAPDA's expenditures relative to
the ADP allocation of about Rs 1.46 billion is attributable to the:
(i) delays in the effectiveness of an ADB loan for the Tarbela Units 11
through 14 (Rs 879 million); (ii) disputes with a manufacturer which resulted
in WAPDA delaying the release of the final payment for the Cuddu power plant
(Rs 306 million); and (iii) delays in the delivery of equipment and material
for the Kot Addu power plant (Rs 252 million). This shortfall, though not
negligible, represents a marked improvement relative to the past in that it
is attributable entirely to factors other than resource constraints which,
during the Fifth Five-Year Plan period and the first two years of the Sixth
Plan, had induced WAPDA to reduce its investment program by between 40X to
501. Moreover, unlike the past, this shortfall is expected to be largely
offset in FY87 as the Government has increased the allocation to WAPDA in



-4-
that year by about 10% relative to the program agreed to under the ESL, Rs
10,847 million compared to Rs £,813 million (para 1.07). In so doing, the
Government has reaffirmed its commitment to the objectives of tile energy
sector strategy, in general, and to WAPDA's Rs 30 billion core investment
program for FY86-FY88, in particular, which is the minimum required to
prevent power shortages from becoming more acute.
1.06    The other four entities covered  under the loan, namely, KESC, SNGPL,
PSO and SGC, who finance their investment programs from internal cash and
borrowing, were all able to mobilize the financial resources needed for the
implementation of their respective CIPs. Despite this, only KESC and SNGPL
were able to fully implement their CIPs for FY86. The shortfalls experienced
by SEC and PSO, however, simply reflect a realignment in the phasing of
expenditures. In the case of SGC, this was necessitated by the Government's
decision to streamline the institutions responsible for distributing gas in
the southern part of the country, by merging the Karkohi Gas Company, the
original beneficiary, with the  Indus Gas Company.   In the case  of PSO, the
expenditures were realigned to incorporate the results of the Petroleum
Products Infrastructure Study initiated under the ESL to ensure consistency
between its investment program and overall development of the petroleum
product subsector. As the CIPs of SGC and PSO are relatively small and given
the success these entities had in mobilizing resources for their implementa-
tion, the shortfalls experienced in FY86 would be made up fully before loan
closing and hence are unlikely to jeopardize the achievement of the physical
targets agreed to under the ESL.
1.07    The Government's  planned investment program  for FY87 has  also been
examined in detail by the Bank with respect to size, subsectoral allocation
of resources and project content. These were found to be consistent with the
projected availability of resources, as well as with the objectives of the
long-term strategy for the development of the energy sector. In general, the
planned investment program calls for a 10% increase in expenditures in FY87
relative to the program agreed to under the Loan, Rs 17.2 billion compared to
Rs 15.6 billion. The bulk of this increase is earmarked for WAPDA-to offset
the shortfalls experienced in FY86 (para 1.05). In the case of the other
entities, investment targets have been revised in consultation with the Bank
to reflect the more recent developments in the sector.
1.08    Pricing  and Demand  Management.  The  petroleum  products  subsector
continues to be e net contributor to the resources of GOP. As of August 1,
1986 the weighted average domestic price of petroleum products was at 238% of
the border price, US$281/toe compared to US$118/toe. Under the prevailing
price structure, prices of all petroleum products are above their respective
border prices. As for natural gas, its price throughout the 1970s was low
relative to the prices of competing petroleum products, reflecting GOP's
decision to buffer the economy from the adverse impact of the higher cost of
imported energy.   This stimulated  demand and  by 1981,  supply  constraints
started to emerge. Accordingly, under SAL I (1981), GOP decided to increase
the price of gas to reach two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by FY88.
The same policy was reiterated under the ESL. In implementing the gas pric-
ing policy, the weighted average domestic price of gas has been increased
since 1981 at an average annual rate of about 30%. These increases and more
importantly, the rapid decline in the international price of oil, have
enabled GOP to surpass the SAL I target. As of August 1986, the weighted



-5-
average price of gas was about 76% higher than the border price of fuel oil,
that is, US$90/toe compared to US$51/toe. In addition, in order to provide
added incentives for the internatioral petroleum firms to increase their
exploration activities in high risks gas prone areas, a new producer price
formula for natural gas was introduced in 1985, which links the price of new
gas to the border price of fuel oil less a discount to be determined on a
field by field basis. This formula was to be applied only to non-associated
gas from new concessions signed on or after September 30, 1986. The Govern-
ment has further reaffirmed its commitment to this policy by agreeing to
extend, on appropriate terms, the coverage of this formula to non-producing
fields and to new gas fields to be developed in existing concessions. The
Government's initiative has been welcomed by the private sector: one foreign
oil company is in the process of bringing into production an already dis-
covered field in the southern part of the country and two new concessions
have been signed with foreign oil companies. These developments clearly
attest to the progress made in promoting private sector participation in the
exploration and development of gas.
1.09     As  regards   electricity,  the  average   revenue,  including  fuel
surcharge, in FY86 was 74 paisa/kWh for  WAPDA, representing about 68% of the
average long-run marginal cost  (LRMC) of 110 paisa/kWh.   Largely because of
this divergence between average revenue and LRMC, outlays in the past were
only about 50% of the planned investment. In order to ensure that actual and
planned investments do not diverge,  GOP and WAPDA agreed under  the ESL to a
three-year CIP and to undertake all necessary measures including tariff
increases and annual allocations from the budget to ensure that it is
financed fully (paras 1.04 and 4.11). Accordingly, electricity tariffs which
had changed very little since November 1981 were increased, effective July 1,
1985, by 10% across the board for all consumers and, again, in October 1986
by extending the coverage of the fuel surcharge to encompass domestic con-
sumers whose consumption is in excess of 250 kWh/month (para 4.09). The Bank
supports the extension of the fuel surcharge clause as it represents the
first step toward rationalizing the structure of tariffs and, in turn, the
consumption of electricity  (para 4.11).   In order  to sustain  this effort,
WAPDA, is also initiating a load research and management study to compile
detailed information on the pattern of electricity consumption by consumer
category, including their capacity requirements, duration of use, load fac-
tors, etc.   This study  would provide  the inputs  needed for  restructuring
electricity tariffs. In addition, GOP has requested financing from UNDP to
establish a system for the collection, storage and retrieval of data on the
power system which would enable WAPDA to update and monitor the changes in
the pattern of electricity consumption (para 2.05).
1.10    Institutional  Responsibilities and  Development.   Three  ministries
share the responsibility for .pervising the operational entities and
agencies involved in the energy sector.   These are the Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources (MPNR), the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP), and the
Ministry of Production (MOP). In addition, the Energy Division of the Minis-
try of Planning and Development (MPD) has responsibility for energy planning.
Operational responsibilities in the sector are vested in a large number of
entities and agencies in both the public and the private sectors. As shown
in the organization chart in Annex 1.2, all of these entities and agencies
come under the jurisdiction of MPNR, except for three state organizations
engaged in oil refining or petrochemicals, the two electricity supply



-6-
organizations and the Appropriate Technology Development Corporation. Nuclear
energy comes under  the office of  the Prime Minister-   Coordination between
the ministries on energy matters is secured through a uumber of committees,
namely the  National Energy  Policy Comittee  (NEP), Energy  Review Working
Croup (SRaG), the Economic Coordination Comittee (ECC), the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC), and the Central Develop-
ment Working Party (CDWP). NEPC is responsible for the formulation of GOP's
overall energy policy. ERWG performs the functions of inter-ministerial
coordination as well as monitors the status of on-going projects in the
public sector  and endeavors  to remove  the  operational  bottlenecks.   The
review of the financial plans of the sector and the approval of energy
pricing proposals is under the jurisdiction of ECC. ECNEC and CDWP review
and approve major proposals and projects in the energy sector, as in other
sectors.
1.11    The main  issue concerning the  organization of the  energy sector is
the multiplicity  of ministries  and  committees  responsible  for  planning,
coordinating and  monitoring  the  performance  of  the  public  and  private
enterprises involved in the production, transport and delivery of energy
products. This division of responsibility was spreading the scarce technical
resources among a large number of public agencies and reducing thee effective-
ness of  each agency.   Consequently, under  the ESL,  GOP created  under the
purview of MPD an energy planning unit (ENERPLAN) with USAID financing, and
National Energy Conservation Center (ENRGCON) with joint USAID and Bank
financing. ENERPLAN is mandated to collect, compile and analyze, on an
ongoing basis, all relevant data on the energy sector and integrate them with
the country's annual, five-year and long-term development plans, to enable
GOP to identify priorities and evaluate resource requirements to support
effective policy formulation and investment planning. Consultants have been
recruited, and about one-half of the sanctioned positions have been filled.
Work is currently underway on (i) reviewing the performance of the energy
sector entities during the  current plan period; and  (ii) preparation of the
Seventh Five-Year Plan and a long-term (20-year) plan for the energy sector.
Draft reports of these plans are expected to be completed by mid-1987. These
would be reviewed jointly by GOP, USAID and the Bank. In a recent move, GOP
has merged ENERPLAN with the energy division of MPD to form an Energy Wing.
The Bank supports this decision fully, as it would further strengthen energy
planning and streamline the institutional setting.
1.12    ENERCON was established to  serve as a focal  point for all conserva-
tion activities. It is administered by a Council for Energy Conservation,
comprising senior representatives from concerned ministries. The Council is
to be guided by an Advisory Committee, consisting of representatives from
GOP, provincial governments, WAPDA and Federal Chamber of Commerce and
Industries. It is responsible for planning energy conservation actions,
formulating policy guidelines, developing a data base, supporting training
activities and private research, undertaking development and demonstration as
well as public information activities, and monitoring the implementation of
conservation program of various public and private entities. Despite a delay
in its establishment and staffing (para 1.05), NCEC also has made substantial
progress in the areas ofs (i) planning and legislation; (ii) data base
develo pmet for transport, building and industry; (iii) energy audits;
(iv) training and curriculum development; and (v) information and outreach
programs. A draft report on energy use in Pakistan's agricultural sector has



-7-
also been completed and is expected to be submitted shortly to the Bank for
review.
D. The Bank Group Strategy and Involvement
1.13    The Bank's broad objectives in the sector are to support the policies
initiated under the ESL, and the allocation of resources for specific
projects included in  the CIP  (para 1.02).   In the  area of  primary energy
production, the Bank would support the implementation of a comprehensive plan
for the exploration and development of hydrocarbons. In addition, it would
support an investment program aimed at the substitution of lower-value
products, particularly imported coal for gas in power generation and the
release of gas for use by industry and households as a substitute for
imported petroleum products.   As for hydro  potential, emphasis would  be on
providing technical and financial support for the development of high
priority schemes.   Efforts would  also be  directed toward  retrofitting and
restructuring the refinery subsector and other major energy consuming
industries, as well as the rationalization of the infrastructure for the
transport of liquid  hydrocarbons and gas.   The Bank would  also support the
formulation of plans for bringing domestic prices of energy products to
parity with their respective cost to the economy to rationalize consumption
and mobilize resources for GOP. In the power subsector, the Bank has
directed its efforts to strengthening WAPDA's manage3ent and technical
capabilities (paras 2.05 and 4.02).
1.14    The Bank Group involvement in Pakistan's energy sector began in 1955,
with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station. Since
then, it has assisted in financing projects in all energy subsectors. In the
power subsector, the Bank has participated in the Indus Basin Development
Projects, which  include the  hydro developments  at Mangla  and Tarbela.   A
series of four credits/loans were made to XESC between 1955 and 1967 for the
development of its generation capacity. Since 1970, the Bank has been more
directly involved in GOP's program for the expansion of generating capacity
and transmission and distribution networks, for which six credits/loans were
made to WAPDA. The first (Cr. 213-PAK) of US$23 million, made in 1970,
covered the cost of upgrading the transmission network. The second opera-
tion, a Third Window loan (Ln. 1208T-PAK) of US$50 million, subsequently
reduced by US$15 million due to savings achieved under international competi-
tive bidding, was made in 1975 to finance the development of part of the
500-kV transmission system to connect the hydro resources of the north with
the thermal generation in the center and south to provide the most economic
mens of  supplying  power  throughout  the  country.   The  third  operation
(Cr. 968-PAK) in the amount of US$45 million was made to cover four years of
VAPDA's program for the development of the secondary transmission system
(FY79-1Y83), involving the erection of about 4,345 km of single and double
circuit lines and the construction, expansion and conversion of 216 substa-
t4.ons. Implementation of this project has been completed satisfactorily.
The fourth (Ln. 2499-PAK), fifth (La. 2556-PAK) and sixth (La. 2698-PAK)
operstions constitute the Bank's portfolio of power projects under supervi-
sion. The fourth operation for an amount of US$100 million covers the con-
struction of a total of about 3,890 km of transmission lines, and 227 substa-
tions of the  subtransmission system  over the  period MG6-FY9M.   The fifth



-8-
operation for an amount of US$100 million would assist WAPDA in the installa-
tion of about 1,100 km of 500-kV transmission line between Lahore and Jam-
shoro and new 500-kV substations at Lahore and Sahiwal, and the extension and
reinforcement of existing 500-kV substations at Multan, Cuddu, Dadu and
Jamshoro (para 2.09). The sixth operation supports the installation of 200
MW of additional generating capacity through the conversion of existing
combustion turbines to  combined cycle operations  at Kot Addu.   Progress in
the implementation of the fourth and fifth projects has been slower than
envisaged because of delays in the initiation of procurement. These delays
were further exacerbated by WAPDA remaining unawares of the recent changes in
the Bank's procurement procedures because of a six-year hiatus in lending to
WAPDA. Consequently, initial bidding documents prepared by WAPDA had to be
revised extensively with each revision taking several iterations as WAPDA
continued to contest the Bank's requirements on issues such as evaluation
criteria, taxes and  duties, use  of domestic  carriers, etc.   These issues,
however, have now been resolved and no further delays are anticipated in the
implementation of these projects.   Moreover, the Bank  has recently approved
standard bidding documents for all projects to be executed by WAPDA.
1.15    In addition  to the credits  and loans that  were made to  WAPDA, the
Bank approved ESL in 1985 for an amount of US$178 million, to support GOP's
long term  strategy for  the development  of the  energy sector.   Under  the
umbrella of ESL, the Bank also approved in the same year a Petroleum Resour-
ces Joint Venture Project (Ln. 2553-PAK) for an amount of US$55 million with
a view to financing the Government's and OGDC's share of foreign exchange
commitments under existing joint ventures with private sector operators in
Badin and North Potwar blocks and new joint ventures to be firmed up during
the next three years.
II. THE BORROWER
A. Organization of WAPDA
2.01    WAPDA,  the  borrower  of  the  loan,  was  established  in  1958  to
coordinate the development of Pakistan's water and power resources. It is a
semi-autonomous agency whose capital investment program and tariffs are
approved by GOP. WAPDA is divided into two largely independent 'wings' one
for power and the other for water (Annex 2.1). The Power Wing is responsible
for the construction and operation of power generation, transmission and
distribution facilities throughout the country, except the Karachi area which
is served by KESC.   The Water Wing  is responsible for  the overall planning
and investigation of water resources, and the design and construction of
surface and groundwater development projects for the federal and provincial
governments. WAPDA's governing body, referred to as the "Authority", con-
sists of a chairman and three members who are in charge of power, water, and
finance, and are designated Member (Power), Member (Water) and Member
(Finance) respectively.   The members  are appointed  by the  Government  and
function as chief executives of their respective groups.
2.02    Member (Power)  is assisted by  seven general  managers in  charge of
distribution, generation (thermal), generation (hydel), transmission and grid



-9-
stations, finance, coordination and planning, system operation and load
dispatch, and inventory control.   The organization of the  Power Wing which,
for convenience, is herein referred to as WAPDA, is shown in Annex 2.2. A
proposal for creating the position of Managing Director (Distribution) is
presently being considered by GOP in order to strengthen WAPDA's distribution
department. Although WAPDA is highly centralized with respect to deci-
sion-making, its distribution department is divided into eight Area Elec-
tricity Boards (AEBs), which were established in 1981 to take over the
responsibility for local electricity service. Each AEB has a chairman, who
is the chief engineer for the area, appointed by WAPDA for a five-year term;
three full-time members, who are also directors in charge of departments; and
three part-time members representing local interests, one of whom is normally
a representative  of the  Provincial Government.   The members  of  AEBs  are
appointed for a period of three years.
2.03    In January 1986,  WAPDA had about 88,000  employees, 2,100 engineers,
700 other professionals, 9,200 technical and other staff, 15,000 administra-
tive and accounts staff, 44,000 skilled workers and 17,000 general staff.
The number of consumers served by WAPDA in that same year was about 4.5
million, representing about 51 consumers per employee. The relatively low
consumer-employee ratio, reflecting the overstaffing of the distribution
department, 1/ has induced WAPDA to initiate a program with the assistance
of consultants, EBASCO Services (US firm), financed by USAID, for streamlin-
ing the operations of the distribution department and for updating its
policies, procedures  and methods  (para 4.02).   In addition,  in  order  to
promote the integrated development of the power subsector, GOP has agreed
under the ESL  to review the  means for reorganizing  the subsector.   GOP is
presently examining the legal implications of assigning to WAPDA the respon-
sibilit, of generation and high voltage transmission of electricity for the
entire country and restricting KESC's operation to the bulk purchase of power
from WAPDA for distribution in the Karachi area. Consideration is also being
givern by GOP to private sector involvement in the power subsector. Toward
that end, GOP appointed in August 1985 a National Deregulation Commission
headed by the Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan. One of its objectives
is to outline a strategy for increasing private sector involvement in power
distribution. Moreover, ECC approved in September 1985 a charter of terms and
conditions under which the private sector would be invited to participate in
power generation, in the context of an agreed medium and long-term plans. A
detailed framework for compensating potential private firms involved in the
supply of power  in Pakistan is  currently being formulated.   The Bank would
review the means and the timetable for reorganizing the subsector in December
1987.
B. Existing Facilities
2.04    In  June  1986,  WAPDA's  total  installed  generating  capacity  was
4,949 MW, comprising 2,897 MW (59%) of hydro and 2,052 MW (41%) of thermal
capacity. The maximum potential output of the existing hydro stations
1/ The distribution department accounts for about 70% of WAPDA's staff.



-10-
amounts to about 3,100 MW when all the reservoirs are full. This potential
drops to about 1,000 MW during dry seasons, and has to be offset by thermal
generation, including the more extensive use of combustion turbines than for
the normal peak load, because of the overall shortage of generating capacity
(Annex 2.3). According to WAPDA, the shortfall between demand and the gener-
ation capability of its system, was about l,5OO MU in January 1986 and about
1,200 MW in June 1986, and is expected to continue into the mid-1990s (para
5.02).
C. Power Planning
2.05     The  slippages   in  the   implementation  of   investment  program,
precipitated by both resource constraints (paras 1.09, 4.01 and 4.11) and the
absence of a mechanism that would identify priority projects and the scale
and timing of investments (para 1.02), prompted WAPDA to formulate a national
program for the development of generation facilities with the assistance of
Argonne National Laboratory (ANL, US agency) under financing from UNDP, with
the Bank as the executing agency.  This  plan was updated in December 1986 to
incorporate the more recent  developments in the subsector.   In addition, in
order to strengthen in-house power system planning capability, ANL, under tTie
auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency, has trained WAPDA's staff
in the use of the Wien Automatic System Planning (WASP III) computer model
and has successfully installed that model on WAPDA's computer in early 1985.
This has enabled VAPDA to revise the national least cost plan periodically to
incorporate the updated information on the operation of the subsector,
including hydrology, water management and pattern of electricity consumption.
GOP has also requested financing from UNDP to establish a system for the
collection, storage and retrieval of data on the power system (para 1.09).
Generation Program
2.06    Based on the long-term least cost development plan, WAPDA's installed
generating capacity is forecast to increase from 4,949 MW in June 1986 to
about 9,500 Kw in 1993. This would involve the commissioning of projects
under  construction   including  the   extension  at   Tarbela  (Units 11-14,
4X432 "i), a steam unit at Jamshoro (Unit No. 1,250 MW), and a set of
combustion turbines at Kot Addu (4xlOO NW). Financing for the above projects
has been secured (para 4.15). All of these units, except the ones at
Tarbela, are expected to be commissioned during the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
Units 11 and 12 at Tarbola are expected to be commissioned in December 1989,
and units  13 and  14 in  June 1990.   In addition,  the plan  calls for  the
developomnt of: a large hydropower scheme at Kalabagh with a total capacity
of 3,600 MW when fully developed; thermal capacities at Jamshoro based on
fuel oil and at Lakhra based on domestic coal; and an imported coal based
complez at Karachi.
2.07    GOP's original  plans had called  for the implementation  of Kalabagh
over an eight-year period, beginning end-1987. However, as the issues relat-
Ing to resettlement and how the benefits of the project would be distributed
among the provinces have not boen resolved fully, the implementation of
Kalabagh is likely to be delayed. In order to offset the shortfall in gener-
atinl capacity that would result from this delay, WAPDA has advanced the



-11-
implementation schedule for the expansion of generating capacity at Jamshoro
from 880 NW to about 1,840 MW.  The feasibility study, originally planned for
completion in March 1987 has been completed by consultants, Bechtel National
Inc., a US firm, under financing from USAID, three months ahead of schedule,
in December 1986. GOP has requested the Bank to process the Jamshoro project
in FY87.   In view  of the  need to  expand generating  capacity in  a timely
fashion and given the sise of the Jamshoro project, the Bank has set the
appointment of Architect and Engineering Consultant for project management as
condition of  negotiations of  the  Project.   Moreover,  the  clearance  and
issuance of bidding doccunents for the main packages would also be set as a
condition of negotiation and the award of contracts would be set as a condi-
tion  of  effectiveness.   As   for  the  imported  coal   based  complex,  a
prefeasibility study has been completed by consultants, Shawinigan Integ, a
Canadian firm, under financing from the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) and the Bank. The consultants had identified three possible
sites - two near the existing Port Qasim and the third, in the area west of
Karachi at Khalifa Point. GOP has selected Khalifa Point as the potential
site for the development of the imported coal based complex. The feasibility
study and detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents for the
power complex  are expected  to  be  completed  by  December 31,  1987.   The
feasibility studies for the Lakhra mine and power station have been completed
by consultants, Gilbert Commonwealth, J.T. Boyd and ICF (US firms), under
USAID financing. Invitations for the submission of bids for mine development
were issued by GOP, in January 1987, to prequalified firms. (para 1.01).
Transmission Program
2.08    Major hydro  resources are located  in the north  of the  country and
thermal facilities and load centers are concentrated in the center and the
south, which requires the transmission of electricity over long distances.
In order to ensure the efficient evacuation of power, WAPDA's long-term plan
calls for the development of three extra high voltage (500-kV) transmission
lines between:   (i) Tarbela and  Karachi via  Faisalabad, Multan,  Guddu and
Jamshoro; (ii) Tarbela and Faisalabad; and (iii) Tarbela and Jamshoro via
Lahore, Sahiwal,  Multan, Guddu  and Jamahoro.   The Tarbela-Karachi  line is
already operating at 500-kV, except for the section between Faisalabad and
Karachi which is presently  being operated at 220-kV.   This section is being
upgraded and is expected to be fully operational at 5^9-WV by 1988. The
Tarbela-Faisalabad line, which was commissioned in 1985 with financial assis-
tance from CIDA, is also in service. The Tarbela-Jamshoro line is presently
beiag constructed by WAPDA and is expected to be completed by 1990. The
Tarbela-Lahore section of this line is financed by the Asian Development Bank
and the Lahore-Jamshoro section is financed by the Bank (tLn. 2556-PAK). The
220-kV network and subtransmission system would also be expanded under the
Fourth VAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2499-PAK) (para 1.14) and its development
would be integrated and coordinated with the expansion of the high voltage
transmission and distribution  systems.  As losses  in the network  are rela-
tively high, about 261 of gross generation, WAPDA has also completed a study,
with the assistance of consultants, HBASCO Services, financed by USAID, to
prepare a detailed work and investment programs needed to reduce losses in
the distribution network to economically acceptable levels. The study is
currently being reviewed by the Bank.



-12-
Distribut.on and Rural Electrification Program
2.09    EBASCO Services, financed by USAID,  is assisting WAPDA in the design
and preparation of a comprehensive Master Plan for Power Distribution System
which would identify the changes required to expan4 as well as improve the
efficiency of WAPDA's service. The objective of this program is to reduce
losses at the distribution level and provide for the economic expansion of
the distribution network in  rural as well  as urban areas.   The study (para
2.08) focusses specifically on: the distribution organization, energy loss
analysis, establishing criteria for selection of feeders for rehabilitation,
plans for efficient distribution expansion and practices, load management,
voltage regulation and service reliability. The Bank, together with WAPDA
and USAID, will review the Master Plan prepared by the consultants. This
Master Plan, along with the study on losses (para 2.08), would serve as a
basis for identifying the distribution components of the three-year rolling
core investment program (para 4.15) and set a framework for selecting
projects suitable for external financing.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    The power  subsector is the  single largest  consumer of  primary and
seconedary energy; however, the efficiency with which it consumes these
produi.s is relatively low because of the deterioration in the efficiency of
the steam units precipitated by the shortage of spare parts and the postpone-
ment of scheduled maintenance, inspection and overhauls necessitated by the
shortfalls in  generating capacity.   These capacity  constraints  have  also
induced WAPDA to operate some of its relatively inefficient combustion tur-
bines more extensively than for the normal peak load for which they were
designed thereby  further eroding  the efficiency  of  the  system.   As  the
efficiency of WAPDA's thermil power plants can be improved significantly in a
relatively short time with comparatively small capital investments by
rehabilitating and retrofitting steam units and converting suitable combus-
tion turbines to combined cycle operation, GOP, in keeping with its strategy
for rationalizing the production and consumption of energy, has given high
priority to achieving this objective. Accordingly, WAPDA has completed a
study with the assistance of consultants, Stone and Webster (US firm), under
financing from USAID, which identifies a program of work and investments
required to improve the efficiency of each unit as well as the schedule for
its implementation.   The Bank  has reviewed  the study  and found  it to  be
satisfactory.
Project Objectives
3.02    The objectives  of the  Project are  to:  (i) improve  the efficiency
with which hydrocarbons are used by WAPDA in power generation; (ii) provide
about 120 MW of additional generating capacity through rehabilitation of
existing thermal units and about 80 MW through the conversion of combustion
turbines to combined cycle operation; and (iii) continue the institution
building efforts initiated under Bank Groupts earlier lending operations by



-13-
strengthening WAPDA's capability in the operation and maintenance of thermal
power stations and spare parts management.
Project Description
3.03    The Project would include:
(a) equipment, spares, tools and other materials required for the
rehabilitation of steam units and combustion turbines at Sukkur,
Guddu, Faisalabad, Quetta, Multan, Kotri and Shahdra;
(b) equipment, materials, civil works and services for conversion of
eight combustion turbines to combined cycle operation at the Kotri
and Faisalabad power stations;
(c) consultancy services for detailed engineering, preparation of bidding
documents, supervision of implementation and development of systems
for maintenance and spare parts management; and
(d) training of WAPDA's staff in operation and maintenance.
A detailed description of the Project is presented in Annex 3.1.
Project Cost
3.04    The total cost of the Project,  incluiding taxes and duties, price and
physical contingencies,  is estimated  at about  US$147 million.   The  total
financing required, including interest during construction of about US$16.0
million, is about US$163 million. Of the total financing requirement, about
US$109 million would be in foreign exchange and about US$54 million in local
cost. These estimates are based on the information obtained from the survey
of power plants prepared by WAPDA with the assistance of consultants (para
3.06) and reflect mid-1986 prices. Escalation of local cost is assumed at 8%
for FY86, 7.75% for FY87, 7.50% for FY88, 7.25% for FY89, 7% for FY90, and
5.50% for FY91.   Escalation of foreign  cost is assumed  at 4.22%  for FY86,
6.96% for FY87, 6.82% for FY88, 6.93% for FY89, 7.06% for FY90, and 5.50% for
FY91. A provision of 12% of the base cost has been made for physical contin-
gencies, given the special nature of the Project. Total price escalation
amounts to about 17% of the base cost and physical contingencies. Duties and
taxes are estimated at about US$25.4 million, resulting in a total project
cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$137.4 million. A summary of the project
cost is presented in Table 3.1 below and detailed estimates are given in
Annex 3.2.



-14-
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(Rs Million)             (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total
Civil Works                      121.1      8.8    130.0      7.2    0.5    7.7
Main Plant Rehabilitation        188.9    499.4    688.3    11.2   29.6   40.8
Conversion to Combined Cycle   189.3    455.1    644.4    11.2   27.0   38.2
Fuel Handling Systems              7.9     14.6      22.5     0.5    0.9    1.4
Substation Equipment              31.7     74.0    105.7      1.9    4.4    6.3
Workshop Equipment                30.3     75.0    105.3      1.8    4.4    6.2
Townships                         15.5        -      15.5     0.9       -    0.9
Consultancy Services and
Training                        12.4    102.1    114.5      0.6    6.2    6.8
Administration                    67.3        -      67.3     4.0       -    4.0
Total Baseline Costs            664.5  1,229.0  1,893.5    39.3   73.0  112.3
Physical Contingencies        79.7    147.5    227.2       4.7    8.7   13.4
Price Contingencies          136.2    220.3    356.5       8.1   13.1   21.2
Total Project Costs             880.4  1,596.8  2,477.2    52.1   94.8  146.9
Interest During
Construction               28.7    239.5    268.2       1.7   14.2   15.9
Total Financing Required    908.1  1,836.3  2,745.4    53.8  109.0  162.8
Project Financing
3.05    The Bank  Loan of US$70  million would cover  about 64% of  the total
foreign exchange requirement of the Project, estimated at about US$109 mil-
lion, and would be made to WAPDA with GOP as the guarantor. USAID and Over-
seas Development Administration (ODA), UK, have agreed to finance another
US$20.3 million of the foreign  cost of the Project.   The balance of US$18.7
million would be financed by COP. WAPDA would provide the local financing,
amounting to about US$54 million equivalent. WAPDA would bear the interest
rate risk and any cost overruns. GOP would bear the foreign exchange risk
and provide repayment guarantee to the Bank, for which WAPDA would annually
pay 3-1/2% on the outstanding loan amount to GOP. The financing plan for the
Project is summarized in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign       Total
---------US$ Million---
IBRD                                  70.0        70.0
USAID                       -         15.0        15.0
ODA                         -          5.3         5.3
WAPDA                    53.8            -        53.8
GOP                         -         18.7        18.7
Total                 53.8        109.0       162.8
USAID financing  would be  from its  existing  Energy  Commodities  Equipment
Program and, therefore, no new agreements are necessary. ODA, however, would
have to enter into an agreement with GOP. Therefore, as a condition of loan



-15-
effectiveness, WAPDA would be required to confirm that all conditions prece-
dent to  the effectiveness  of the  ODA Grant  have  been  fulfilled.   tpara
6.03a).
Project Preparation
3.06    The Project was prepared  on the basis of a  study conducted by WAPDA
with the assistance of consultant, M/S Stone and Webster, under USAID financ-
ing (paras 3.01 and 3.04). The consultants assessed the operational status
and maintenance requirements of the thermal generating units in WAPDA's
system. Based on that assessment, a program of work and investments
(Annex 3.1) required to improve the therma- efficiency of each unit and
maintenance practices was formulated and the time schedule for its implemen-
tation was specified. The economic viability of implementing the program at
each unit was then ascertained to identify units whose rehabilitation and
retrofitting is justified on both technical and economic grounds. The study,
which was completed in November 1985, was reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory.
Project Engineering and Consulting Services
3.07    The Project involves:  (i) engineering  of systems requiring replace-
ment and retro:itting of equipment; (ii) preparation of specifications and
bidding  documents  for  equipment,  materials   and  services  required  for
rehabilitation and conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle opera-
tion; (iii) supervision of implementation with particular emphasis on the
coordination of rehabilitation work and plant outages with the system opera-
tion needs; and (iv) training of WAPDA's staff in operation and maintenance
practices. Although WAPDA has acquired extensive experience in the installa-
tion and operation of steam generating units and combustion turbines, its
experience in design and engineering of steam power plants and combined cycle
plants is limited.   As WAPDA's  in-house design  fac-ilities also  are inade-
quate, it would require assistance in the design, preparation of bidding
documents, development of project schedules and supervision of implementa-
tion. Therefore, in order to ensure the timely implementation of the
Project, consultants satisfactory to the Bank have been recruited under
financing from ODA to assist WAPDA in the detailed design, preparation of
bidding documents and implementation schedules, and supervision of implemen-
tation.
3.08    WAPDA's  maintenance and  spare-parts management  systems, which  are
predominantly manual, have evolved independently at individual power plants
because maintenance  activity is  decentralized.   In  view  of  the  planned
increase in WAPDA's thermal capacity and the need to ensure high plant
availability to minimize the projected shortfalls in energy (para 2.04),
WAPDA should introduce a modern system for maintenance and spare-parts
management. As WAPDA's experience in this area is limited, it would require
assistance in the development and implementation of these systems and train-
ing of WAPDA's staff in their use at a utility with proven track record in
the operation of conventional thermal and combined cycle plants. Therefore,
in order to assist WAPDA in the development and implementation of maintenance
and spare parts management systems, as well as the training of WAPDA's staff
in their use, consultants satisfactory to the Bank have been recruited under
financing from ODA.



-16-
Project Implementation
3.09    Since  the Project  involves the  rehabiiitation and  retrofitting of
operating units, no new infrastructural facilities are needed. Adequate land
is also available for the heat recovery boilers, steam turbogenerators and
associated equipment to be added to the combustion turbines at Kotri and
Faisalabad.
3.10    The  Project would  be implemented  concurrently at  seven  locations
(para 3.03(a)). In addition, it involves procurement of a large variety of
equipment and materials financed by different donor agencies (para 3.05),
whose installation would have to be coordinated with outage schedules and
ongoing maintenance in order to minimize the duration that each unit is out
of operation. To date, WAPDA's experience in coordinating the implementation
of such activities is limited as its plant maintenance and spare-parts
procurement are carried out by plant staff with minimal central coordination
(para 3.08). Moreover, its staff at the power stations is fully occupied
with routine maintenance. WAPDA, therefore, has established a group for
plant improvement under the General Manager (Thermal). Its responsibilities
are to: (i) coordinate the implementation of the Project; (ii) liaise with
the consultants; and (iii) form the counterpart staff in WAPDA to be trained
in the development and implementation of modern systems for maintenance and
spare parts management. The association of this group with consultants will
provide WAPDA in-house expertise needed to ensure that these systems are
implemented at new plants and upgraded on an ongoing basis, as well as enable
WAPDA to  undertake rehabilitation  activities, as  and when  required.   The
staffing plan for the group for plant improvement, presented in Annex 3.3 was
reviewed during negotiations and found satisfactory to the Bank.
3.11    Implementation  of the  Project has  commenced.   The  implementation
schedule for the Project is shown in Annex 3.4. WAPDA, based on the consult-
ants' report (para 3.06), has prepared and submitted the project document
(PC-1) for ECNEC's approval. ECNEC's approval of the PC-1 for the Project is
a condition of effectiveness for the Loan (para 6.03(b).
Procurement
3.12    Procurement of equipment, materials and services financed by the Bank
will be in  accordance with  Bank Guidelines.   Contracts financed  under the
Loan for tha supply and erection of equipment and materials would be awarded
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), except where rehabilitation
work financed under the Loan involves proprietary equipment or small quan-
tities  of  specialized  items   which  can  be   obtained  economically  and
expeditiously from major international manufacturers through direct contracc-
ing or  Limited International  Bidding (LIB).   The funds  made available  by
USAID would cover the cost of equipment and materials purchased from the
United States.   ODA funds  would be  used to  finance consultants'  services
(paras 3.07 and 3.08). Procurement arrangements for the Project are sum-
marized in Table 3.3.



-17-
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method /b
ICB      LCB     Other Ic   Total
1.  Civil Works                             -       10.4        -        10.4
2.  Main Plant Rehabilitation            22.2          -     30.7        52.9
(17.7)              (10.0)      (27.7)
3.  Conversion to Combined Cycle         50.2          -        -        50.2
(39.8)                         %39.8)
4.  Fuel Handling Systems                   -          -      1.7         1.7
5.  Substation Equipment                    -          -      8.2         8.2
6.  Workshop Equipment                    2.0        2.0      4.0         8.0
( 1.5)                         ( 1.5)
7.  Townships                               -        1.2        -         1.2
8.  Consultants & Training                  -          -      8.9         8.9
(1.0)      (1.0)
9.  Administration                          -          -      5.4         5.4
74.4      13.6      61.0       146.9
(59.0)              (11.0)     (70.0)
/a  The figures in parentheses are the respective amounts which would be
financed by the Bank.
/b  ICB   - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding.
Other - Direct negotiation, Limited International Bidding (LIB), or
not subject to commercial procurement.
/c Procurement of some of the items under this category would be financed
under cofinancing arrangement.
The equipment for retrofitting of combined cycle units at Faisalabad and
Kotri,  estimated   at  about   US$50   million,   would   be   tendered   as
supply-and-erect contracts and would be subject to ICB in accordance with
Bank guidelines. All other equipment, except spare-parts financed under the
Loan, would also be grouped into a number of supply-and-erect packages and
procured through ICB, LIB or direct contracting in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The list of equipment and material to be procured through LIB
and direct contracting under Bank financing would be approved by the Bank
befr.e their procurement and the total value of such items would not exceed
US$10 million. About 51% of works, goods and services for the Project would
be  procured  through   ICB.   Documents   for  individual   contracts  above
US$1,000,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank. It
will apply to about 75% of the estimated cost of Bank-financed elements.
Local suppliers and manufacturers competing for supply of goods under ICB
would have a preference of 15% or the applicable duty, whichever is less.
Procurement would commence by mid-1987.
Disbursements
3.13    The proceeds of the loan would  be disbursed against: (i) 100Z of CIF
cost of imported goods or ex-works cost of locally-manufactured goods and 80%
of expenditure for erection, both being subject to ICB; and (ii) 1001 of
foreign cost of training. Disbursements up to US$10 million will also be



-18-
made against CIF cost of goods procured through LIB and direct contracting.
Disbursements will be fully documented, except for paymePts not exceeding
US$250,000. Such disbursements would be made against statement of expendi-
tures (SOEs), the documentation for which will not be submitted to the Bank
but retained for inspection by the supervision missions. The standard proce-
dures for auditing SOEs, would apply.   In order to facilitate disbursements,
a Special Account would be established in a commercial bank in accordance
with terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Bank.   The initial deposit in
the Special Account would be US$5.0 million, representing the estimated
average expenditures for a four-month period for the items financed by the
Bank. The Project contains provision for retroactive financing of up to
US$2.5 million, for expenditures incurred for procurement of equipment and
materials, after December 1, 1986. A schedule of disbursements is presented
in Annex 3.5.
3.14    Although  the  implementation  of  the  Project  is  planned  over  a
three-year period, a five-year disbursement schedule is being proposed to
allow for possible delays due to operational constraints, particularly those
stemming from  poor  hydrological  conditions.   The  disbursement  schedule,
however, is faster than the Bank's standard profile of eight years for ther-
mal projects in the Region because the standard profile includes a large
number of coal fired power stations whose construction period is relatively
long. Since the Project consists of rehabilitation, involving essentially a
large number of short duration activities, retrofitting of equipment at power
plants and given that WAPDA would be assisted by consultants in implementing
the Project, the  proposed disbursement schedule  is realistic.   The closing
date for the Project would be June 30, 1992.
Environmental Aspects
3.15    The Project would not affect  the environment adversely.  In fact, by
improving the operating efficiency of the thermal power plants, it is
expected to reduce atmospheric pollution.
Project Risks
3.16    No unusual risks are foreseen in project implementation, except those
arising  from  shortage  of  generating   capacity  during  periods  of  poor
hydrological conditions which could render thermal power plants unavailable
for rehabilitation and retrofitting. However, the probability of the poor
hydrological conditions recurring in all the three years is remote, and the
five-year disbursement schedule caters for such eventualities (para 3.14).
Risk of damage due to fire, explosion, etc., would be covered by the respec-
tive suppliers and contractors during the construction and, after commission-
ing, by VAPDA through its insurance policies which are satisfactory (para
4.07).
Project Monitoring
3.17    WAPDA will submit to the Bank quarterly reports, covering the work of
consultants, physical progress, project costs, disbursements and administra-
tive aspects of the Project. In addition, it would also submit annual finan-
cial and administrative reports and other pertinent information to the Bank.
WAPDA would also undertake to prepare and furnish to the Bank, within six



-19-
months after the closing date, or such later date, as will be agreed for this
purpose, a Project Completion Report of such scope and detail, as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
IV. FINANCE I/
Introduction
4.01    WAPDA's  financial affairs  are  governed  by  the  WAPDA  Act  which
requires the utility to generate sufficient revenues from electricity sales
to cover operating costs including depreciation, debt service and achieve a
reasonable return  on  investment.   Under  the  First  WAPDA  Power  Project
(Cr. 213-PAK), WAPDA agreed to achieve a rate of return of 8% on revalued
average net fixed  assets in use.   However, because  of GOP's  reluctance to
revalue assets, this covenant was replaced in FY76 under the Second WAPDA
Power Project (Ln. 1208T-PAK) by an internal cash generation covenant. It
required WAPDA to generate annually from internal sources, 30% of the capital
expenditures, a-veraged over the previous two years and the current year
without taking into account the net changes in working capital. In order to
ensure that adequate local funds were available for the implementation of
WAPDA's expanding investment program, the level of internal cash generation
was raised to 40% in FY80 under the Third WAPDA Power Project (Cr. 968-PAK).
In each of the following six years, except FY85, WAPDA was able to comply
with this covenant, but only because of substantial slippages in its invest-
ment program precipitated by inadequate  upward adjustments in tariffs (paras
1.09 and 4.09). It -;as in the context of these slippages and the accompany-
ing shortfalls in generating capacity that agreement was reached with GOP and
WAPDA under the ESL on a Rs 30 billion CIP for the period FY86-FY88 (paras
1.04 and 4.11).
Accounting Systems and Organization
4.02    Under previous Bank Group operations (Ln. 1208T-PAK and Cr. 968-PAK),
WAPDA engaged Peat, Marwick,  Mitchell and Co. (PMM) of  UK as consultants to
study the utility's financial organization and outline the means for improv-
ing its financial management, particularly in the areas of accounting systems
and procedures, and organization and staffing. The study, which was com-
pleted in  FY82, recommended  the introduction  of a  modern  accruals  based
accounting system with a code of  accounts, the updating of inventory manage-
ment methods and the streamlining of financial reporting procedures. These
recommendations were implemented by WAPDA with  the assistance of PMM in FY83
and FY84 and as  a result, WAPDA's' billing and collection,  and control over
its finances have  improved significantly.  In  addition, the  appointment of
General Manager and Deputy  General Manager for Finance  has strengthened the
11 WAPDA maintains separate accounts for the Power Wing. The financial
analysis and discussions in this chapter are confined to the operations
of WAPDA's Power Wing, which for ease of reference is referred to herein
as WAPDA.



-20-
overali financial function and enhanced its role within WAPDA. In order to
sustain this momentum, WAPDA, under financing from USAID, has engaged a
consortium of US firms referred to as Principal Technical Assistance Team
(PTAT), as consult,5its to carry out additional work in the areas of Fixed
Asset Accounting (pdra 4.13), Internal Audit (para 4.03) and training of
staff (paras 2.03 and 4.06).
In'ernal Audit
4.03    A  basic function  of an  internal audit  unit is  to provide  senior
management with information relating to the performance of the entity's
systems. In addition, an effective internal audit unit can facilitate the
performance of external audit, with the latter rely .ng heavily on the former
(para 4.04).   Although WAPDA  has a  large Internal  Audit  Department,  its
systems and procedures are outdated and its responsibilities have not been
enhanced to suit the utility's recent growth in size and complexity. In
recognition of this, WAPDA, under financing from USAID, has engaged PTAT as
consultants to develop  a modern internal  auditing system.   The consultants
have begun their work and are expected to complete it by March 1988. Follow-
ing a review of the work by the Bank, agreement would be sought on a
timetable for the implementation of the internal audit system.
External Audit
4.04    According to the WAPDA  Act, the Auditor General  of Pakistan (AG) is
responsible for auditing WAPDA's accounts.   He discharges his responsibility
through the Director General, WAPDA Audit, who is assigned to WAPDA, together
with a  staff of  400 on  a permanent  basis.   Under  an  earlier  operation
(Cr. 1280-PAK), the Bank Group agreed to accept the AG as the independent
auditor until WAPDA's accounting system was strengthened sufficiently to
permit a judgment on the quality of AG's audit. It was also recognized that
an effective internal audit system, which is presently lacking, is required
to support the external audit. The AG, with Dutch assistance, is making a
significant effort to strengthen the audit function. Tnese improvements,
together with WAPDA's efforts to strengthen its accounting procedures and to
institute an effective internal audit function, will go a long way in
facilitating the AG in performing the external audit (para 4.03). Present
arrangement is to accept the Preliminary Audit Observations, together with
the balance sheet, income statement and any other relevant statements cover-
ing the performance of WAPDA, as satisfying the Bank's audit requirements.
The observations are normally issued within six months of the close of the
fiscal year.   The existing  audit arrangement  will continue  until the  new
internal audit syscem is in place and the new accounting system is fully
implemented and operational, so that an informed judgment can be made on the
quality of the AG's audit. The Bank has reserved the right to monitor the
present audit arrangements and, if necessary, to request an audit consistent
with Bank guidelines. Under the previous WAPDA power projects, WAPDA agreed:
(i) to the Bank's standard audit covenant to enable the Bank to retain the
right of exercising the option of requesting an audit consistent with its
guidelines; and (ii) that the interim arrangements governing WAPDA audits,
requiring WAPDA to submit its annual accounts, together with Preliminary
Audit Observations within six months of the end of the fiscal year would
remain in force until the new internal audit system is in place. This arran-
gement is renewed under the Project (para 6.02(a)).



-21-
Financial and Commercial Operations
4.05    WAPDA's  distribution department  is one  of the  largest  commercial
undertakings in Pakistan with annual sales in FY85 of 13,756 GWh to over 4.5
million consumers, and monthly. billing and collections amounting to about
Rs 750 million. This magnitude of operation requires efficient financial and
commercial systems and capable staff to operate them. WAPDA, however, has
been unable to recruit qualified mid- to high-level accounting staff because
its current rules stipulate that such positions be filled by promoting
individuals from  within WAPDA.   In order  to address  this constraint,  new
rules covering WAPDA's Accounting Service have now been drafted which would
permit the recruitment of mid- to high-level accounting staff from outside
WAPDA. These are being reviewed by a committee prior to their presentation
to the Authority for approval. Once these rules are approved, WAPDA will be
able to recruit qualified financial staff to fill required positions at both
headquarters and the eight AEBs where the shortage of qualified staff is
particularly acute.
4.06    WAPDA continues  to make progress  in streamlining  and strengthening
its financial and commercial operations with substantial support from US ID
(paras 2.11  and 4.02)  which includes  a  large  training  component.   This
project complements the institution-building work carried out by WAPDA under
Bank-financed projects (paras 1.14 and 4.02).   WAPDA, USAID and the Bank are
closely coordinating their  institution building activities.   Annex 4.6 sum-
marizes work being carried out in the financial and commercial areas.
Insurance
4.07    Prior to 1977, WAPDA placed its insurance with the National Insurance
Corporation of Pakistan, a Government insurance agency. Due to difficulties
in settling its claims with this agency, WAPDA elected to insure its assets
under a self-insurance scheme. It was established, with the assistance of
actuarial consultants, to cover substations, power houses, machinery and
workshops against loss from fire and machinery breakdown. WAPDA contributes
Rs 15.3 million annually to the insurance fund which is administered inde-
pendently by a Board of Management with assistance of actuarial consultants.
As of June 30, 1985, the insurance fund amounted to Rs 73.2 million. The
Bank has reviewed these insurance arrangements and found them acceptable.
Past Operations
4.08    Financial statements  showing WAPDA's  performance during  the period
FY81-FY86,  are  presented  in  Annexes 4.1   and   4.2,  and  summarized  in
Table 4.1:



-22-
Table 4.1: OPERATING RESULTS FY81-FY86
Year Ending June 30                FY81    FY82   FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
(Provi-
sional)
kWh generated (million)           13,206  14,768  16,477  18,052  18,780 21,055
kWh sold (million)                 9,068  10,288  11,593  12,762  13,756 15,504
System losses SX)                     31      30       30      29      27      26
Avg. rev/kWh sold,
including fuel surcharge            51      57       62      63      64      74
Operating Rev. (Rs million)        4,777   6,011   7,361   8,214   8,992  11,761
Operating Exp. (Rs million)        2,218   3,306   4,083   5,069   6,473   7,816
Operating Income (Rs million)      2,559   2,705   3,278   3,145   2,519   3,945
Net income (Rs million) /a         1,870   1,835   2,214   1,977   1,085   2,129
Self-financing ratio
(3 yr. Avg.) (Z)                    56      65      82       70      37      48
Rate of Return:
on Historically valued assets (%)  18.3    17.3    17.9    14.6    10.3    13.0
on Revalued assets (proforma) (x)  10.4      9.5    10.0      8.2     4.0      5.3
ia  After interest and payment to government.
WAPDA's electricity generation  increased from 13,206  GWh in FY81  to 21,055
GWh in FY86, averaging about 11.7% between FY81 and FY83, 6.8% between FY84
and FY85 and 12.1% in FY86. The downturn in the rate of growth of generation
in FY84 and FY85 is attributable to capacity constraints precipitated by poor
hydrological conditions in FY84 and FY85. The higher growth rate in FY86 is
attributable to better utilization of hydro capacity due to improved
hydrological conditions in that year and the addition of 440 KW of thermal
capacity at Guddu (Combined Cycle Units) which was an integral part of the
FY86 CIP. WAPDA's electricity sales during the period FY81 to FY86 followed
a pattern of increase similar  to that of generation.   However, as WAPDA was
able to reduce losses, from  31% of g:oss generation in  FY81 to 26% in FY86,
by extending and upgrading the transmission network (paras 1.14 and 2.08) and
streamlining and strengthening billing collection operations (para 4.02),
sales increased at higher rate of growth than generation, averaging about
11.3% compared to 9.8%.
4.09    WAPDA's average revenue/kWh increased in  nominal terms from 51 paisa
in FY81 to 74 paisa in FY86, representing an average annual increase of about
9.4%. WAPDA's average revenue includes a fuel adjustment surcharge which is
calculated on the basis of the average fuel cost incurred in the 12-month
period ending two months  prior to the  month of billing.   However, the fuel
surcharge clause is applicable only to consumer categories other than domes-
tic and  agricultural consumers.   As a  result, WAPDA  is unable  to recover
fully the cost incurred in a particular year. Recognizing that this under
recovery of fuel costs, which is projected to be about 37% in FY87, is adver-
sely affecting the availability of local resources to implement the CIP, GOP
has extended the applicability of the fuel surcharge clause to domestic
consumers consuming  more than  250  kWh/month  (para  1.09).   GOP  is  also
initiating a load research and management study which would provide inputs
needed for the restructuring of electricity tariffs (paras 1.09 and 5.02).



-23-
4.10    WAPDA's operating revenues increased from Rs 4,777 million in FY81 to
Rs 11,761 million in FY86, representing an average annual rate of about 20%.
By contrast, during this period operating costs increased at an average
annual rate of about 28% because of higher fuel costs stemming from greater
reliance on thermal capacity and increases in the prices of fuel (para 4.08).
As a percentage of total operating costs, these increased from 22% in FY81 to
46% in FY86.   Higher fuel  costs, which  WAPDA was  unable to  recover fully
(para 4.09), together with inadequate upward adjustments in tariffs and
shortages of generating capacity, eroded the utility's profitability par-
ticularly in FY84 and FY85 (paras 4.11 and 4.12). In these two years, the
ratio of operating income to operating revenue, declined from 54% in FY81 to
38% in FY84 and 28% in FY85. In FY86, however, due to the 10% increase in
tariffs (para 4.11) and larger recovery of fuel cost, the ratio improved to
34%.
4.11    WAPDA's  self-financing ratio,  calculated  in  accordance  with  the
formula agreed under the Third WAPDA Power Project (Cr. 968-PAK), was 56% in
FY81,  65%  in  FY82,  82%  in  FY83,  10%  in  FY84.   The  relatively  high
self-financing ratios were achieved mainly because of slippages in WAPDA's
investment program precipitated by resource constraints stemming from inade-
quate tariff increases and reductions in annual budgetary allocations (paras
4.01 and 4.09). In FY85, by contrast, there were virtually no slippages in
the implementation of the planned investment program which was substantially
larger than the program for the preceding year, Rs 6,768 million compared to
Rs 4,621 million.   However, as  there  were  no  tariff  increases,  WAPDA's
self-financing ratio in that year was about 37%, compared to the covenanted
level of 40%.   In order to  ensure greater  concurrence between  planned and
actual investments and enable WAPDA to achieve the covenanted self-financing
ratio, agreement was reached with GOP and WAPDA under the ESL on a three-year
CIP for FY86-FY88 and on the implementation of measures needed to ensure that
at least 40% of it is financed from WAPDA's internal sources (paras 1.04,
1.09 and 4.01). Accordingly, tariffs were increased by 10% for all consumer
categories effective July 1, 1985 (para 1.09). Unaudited accounts for FY86
indicate that shortfalls in the implementation of the investment program are
small, relative to the past, 22% compared to over 50% during the period
FY81-FY84 (para 1.09).   Moreover, WAPDA achieved  a self-financing  ratio of
48%. GOP, in reaffirming its commitment to the CIP, has increased the
planned investment program for FY87 to largely offset the shortfalls
experienced in FY86 (para 1.05). GOP and WAPDA have also agreed under Fourth
WAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2499-PAK) to replace, starting FY89, the existing
retrospective formula with a forward looking formula for calculating internal
cash generation which would require WAPDA to generate annually from internal
sources 40% of its investments averaged over the previous, current and suc-
ceeding years, after taking into account the changes in working capital (para
4.01).
4.12    During the  period FY80-FY83, WAPDA's  revenues and  operating income
kept pace with increases in its asset base, thereby enabling the utility to
achieve an average rate of return of 17% on historically valued assets and
10% on  revalued assets.   In FY84  and FY85,  however, the  rate  of  return
declined to 14.6% and 10.3% on historically valued assets and 8.2% and 4.0%
on revalued assets. This decline in rates of return is attributable to:
(i) the commissioning of large assets during those two years, particularly
hydro capacity; (ii) the underutilization of some of WAPDA's assets in FY84



-24-
and FY85, particularly hydro units and the associated transmission lines
owing to poor hydrological conditions (para 4.08); and (iii) a deterioration
in WAPDA's profitability (para 4.10). Reflecting an improvement in WAPDA's
profitability (para 4.11), the rate of return increased in FY86 to 13.0% on
historical assets and 5.3% on revalued assats. WAPDA's financial projections
for the period FY87-FY93, in fact, show that the rates of return are expected
to improve to about 9% on revalued assets as WAPDA's tariffs are increased in
line with the financial performance covenant (paras 4.01 and 4.11) and the
gap between current tariff levels and LRMC is reduced.
Present Financial Position
4.13    Balance  sheets showing  WAPDA's financial  position at  the  end  of
FY86 1/ is presented in Annex 4.1. The book value of fixed assets is shown
at historical cost, as required by GOP. As a large proportion of WAPDA's
electricity supply facilities (generating plant, and transmission and dis-
tribution networks) were commissioned during the last few years, its gross
fixed assets in service increased between FY80 and FY86 by about 160%; of
these, 59% were financed from WAPDA's internal sources and 41% from borrow-
ings. WAPDA is currently in the process of establishing a system that will
classify fixed assets by category to form the basis for formulating of
appropriate depreciation schedules (para 4.02). This work is expected to be
completed by end-1986. Until such time, an average rate of depreciation of
about 3.5% is being applied, which is considered adequate by the Bank.
WAPDA's capitalization as of June 30, 1986 is summarized in Table 4.2:
Table 4.2: WAPDA'S CAPITALIZATION AS OF JUNE 30, 1986
Equity                            Rs Million                 Z
Government investment                 2,437                   5
Government equity
contribution                        3,301                   7
Consumer contributions                2,750                   6
Retained earnings                    13,761                  29
Total                              22,249                  47
Long-Term Debt                       24,740                  53
TOTAL CAPITAL                      50,446                 100
The Government's investment of Rs 2,437 million includes initial contribution
of Rs 461 million to WAPDA at the time of its formation, capital contribu-
tions of Rs 471 million for the Warsak and Mangla projects and Rs 1,414
million for Tarbela. At the end of FY86, WAPDA's capitalization position was
strong with a debt/equity ratio of 53/47 compared to a ratio of 61/39 at the
end of FY79.   This increase in  equity is mainly  due to  improved earnings;
retained earnings amounted to 62% of total equity at the end of FY86,
compared to only 26% at the end of FY79. In addition to a strong capitaliza-
tion position, the ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 3.0 and
1/ Data for FY86 are provisional.



-25-
the coverage of debt service by gross internal cash generation of 1.9 are
satisfactory.
Government Arrears
4.14    Given the  magnitude of WAPDA's  operations (para 4.05),  its overall
accounts receivable, amounting to 2.6 months' sales as of end FY86 are satis-
factory. However, Government departments and agencies were delinquent in
paying their bilLs on time. Receivables from this category of consumers had
increased from Rs 617 million representing 3.5 months' sales as of December
31, 1985 to Rs 889 million representing 5 months' sales as of February 28,
1986, despite the agreement reached under the Fourth WAPDA Power Project
(Ln. 2499-PAK) which requires GOP to cause all government departments and
agencies to pay their electricity bills within three months of receipt of the
bill beginning January 1986.   GOP and WAPDA  had informed the  Bank that the
delinquent departments were withholding payment because some portion of the
bills  are  being   disputed.   The  Bank   was  also  informed   that  since
approximately 20% of the amount billed is under dispute, GOP had directed all
departments and agencies in arrears to pay all uncontested receivables
(approximately 80% of the outstandings) to WAPDA by March 31, 1986. Further-
more, the Finance Ministry had authorized deduction of appropriate amounts at
the budgetary source, if the uncontested receivables were not paid by the
specified date. Accordingly, about Rs 393 million have been paid to WAPDA by
GOP through budgetary deductions thus reducing the arrears owed by Government
departments and agencies to 2.7 months' level. In order to ensure that
WAPDA's cash flows are not adversely affected by the high levels of receiv-
ables from Government departments and agencies, GOP agreed during nego-
tiations to cause all Federal and Provincial Governmental Agencies and
DepartmAnts to pay all bills for the supply of electricity by WAPDA within
three months of receipt of bill (para 6.01).
Investment Program and Financing Plan
4.15    WAPDA's development program  for the period  FY87-FY95, together with
the annual phasing of expenditures for ongoing and new projects, is presented
in Annex 4.5 and summarized in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3:  CAPITATS INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Rs million    US$ million      %      Foreign Exch.(%)
Generation               122,026       -7,233         63             46
Transmission              18,889         1,120        10             45
Subtransmission           22,529        1,335         11             20
Distribution              30,157        1,787         16             16
Total                  193,601       11,475        100             40
Of the total investment program, about 63% is earmarked for the expansion of
generating capacity, 21% for the extension and reinforcement of the transmis-
sion and subtransmission systems and 16% for the distribution system. As
substantial investments have already been made in the development of trans-
mission (paras 1.14 and 2.08) and distribution facilities (para 2.11), and
because slippages were most acute in the commissioning of new generating



-26-
capacity, a relatively larger share of the planned program has been earmarked
for their expansion. The Bank has reviewed the investment plan for its
content, size and allocation, and finds it satisfactory. In order to ensure
that WAPDA's system continues to develop along the least cost path, GOP and
WAPDA agreed under the Fifth WAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2556-PAK) to an annual
investment review with the Bank which would result in a rolling three-year
priority investment program, starting with the core investment program for
FY86-FY88 (para 2.09). A priority investment program for FY87-FY89 was
agreed to by GOP and WAPDA under the Kot Addu Combined Cycle Project
(Ln. 2698-PAK). It amounts to Rs 39 billion, with annual allocation of
Rs 10,751 million for FY87, Rs 11,535 nillion for FY88 and Rs 16,669 million
for FY89.   Of the  total, Rs 21,749  million are  earmarked for  generation,
Rs 10,731 million for transmission and 6,375 million for distribution
facilities. In line with this agreement, GOP has allocated Rs 10,390 million
for WAPDA under the FY87 ADP (para 1.07).
4.16    The sources of financing for  WAPDA's investment program covering the
period FY87-FY91, the period of implementation of the Project, are summarized
in Table 4.4:
Table 4.4: FINANCING REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES DURING FY87-FY92
Rs million        US$ million          %
Requirements
Capital Investment                   110,472               6,548           94
Working Capital Increase                7,422                 440           6
Total Requirements                 117,894               6,988          100
Sources
Gross Internal Sources                85,141               5,047            -
Less:  Debt Service /a                39,267               2,328
Net Internal Cash Generation          45,874               2,719           39
Borrowings
GOP Loans                           29,992               1,777           25
Foreign Loans                       40,873               2,422           35
Proposed Loan                        1,155                  70            1
Total Borrowings                    72,020               4,269           61
Total Sources                        117,844               6,988          100
/a Includes interest during construction and Rs 20 million payment to
Government.
During the period FY87-FY92, WAPDA's total requirement of funds would amount
to Rs 117,894 million (US$6,988 million); Rs 110,472 million (US$6,548 mil-
lion) for capital investment and Rs 7,422 million (US$440 million) for work-
ing capital  increase.   Of  the  total  funds  required,  Rs 45,874  million
(US$2,719 million) or about 39X would be financed by WAPDA from internal
sources and the balance of Rs 72,028 million (US$4,269 million) would be
financed through borrowings. GOP loans, which would be made to WAPDA by way
of ADP allocations, would amount to Rs 29,992 million (US$1,777 million) and
most of it would be in Rupees.   Foreign loans amounting to Rs 42,028 million
(US$2,492 million), including the disbursements under the Project, would



-27-
finance about 35% of the total tequirements. About 53% of foreign exchange
requirementst amounting to Rs 21,663 million (US$1,284 million) have been
secured and sources for another 27%, amounting to 11,036 million (US$654
million) have been identified. The balance, amounting to Rs 8,174 million
(US$484 million) or about 20% of foreign exchange requirement, remains to be
secured. This financing gap is not considered serious, given that (i) it
occurs in later years, particularly FY91 and FY92; and (ii) GOP and WAPDA
have, in the past, successfully mobilized adequate bilateral aid and/or
suppliers' credits.
Future Finances
4.17    Forecast  balance sheets  and  income  statements,  and  sources  and
applications of funds statements and balance sheets for FY87-FY93 are shown
in Annexes 4.1,  4.2 and 4.3.   A summary of  forecast operating  results for
this seven-year period is presented below:
Table 4.5: FORECAST OPERATING RESULTS
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Generation (GWh)                     24,329 25,891 28,403 31,398 34,672 37,976 41,614
Sales (GWh)                          18,247 19,936 21,870 24,176 26,697 29,242 32,043
Average revenue per
kWh sold (paisa) /a                    75     85    116    132    137    147    152
Operating revenue (Rs million)       14,087 17,303 25,669 32,320 36,945 43,455 49,143
Operating expense (Rs million)    9,427 11,069 14,739 18,786 22,246 26,934 31,886
Net operating income (Rs million)   4,660  6,234 10,930 13,535 14,698 16,521 17,256
Self-financing ratio
(Three-year average)(%)               40      40     40      40     40      40     40
Rate of return
Historically valued assets (Z)       13.0   14.4   20.4   20.1   17.6   16.1   14.0
Proforma revalued assets (%)         5.2    6.1    9.0    8.8    9.4    9.0    8.8
Debt/equity ratio                     56/44  59/41  59/41  59/41  59/41  59/41  59/41
Debt service coverage                   1.8    1.7    2.4    2.3    2.2    2.1    2.0
/a Including fuel surcharge.
WAPDA's financial projections are based on projected increases in electricity
generation and tariffs, and a reduction in system losses.  Forecasts for FY87
also take into account the reduction in price of fuel oil by 4.1% and High
Speed Diesel by 9.4% and the reduction in the price of natural gas from Mari
field to WAPDA. Electricity generation is forecast to increase at an average
annual rate of 8.9% and electricity sales by 9.6%, reflecting a sustained
decrease in system losses. In order for WAPDA to continue to self-finance
not less than 40% of its capital investment program to meet the financial
performance covenant, forecasts through FY93 show that it would need to
increase tariffs at an average annual rate of about 15% in nominal terms,
amounting to about 8% in real terms, assuming an average annual inflation
rate of 7%.   GOP expanded  the coverage  of the  fuel surcharge  to domestic
consumer consuming more than 250 kWh/month (para 1.09). Estimates show that
this action, together with that of reduction in price of Mari gas to WAPDA,
would enable WAPDA to self-finance 401 of the CIP for FY87. In order to
ensure that sufficient resources are available to implement WAPDA's power
development program, it has agreed to take all necessary actions to



-28-
self-finance 40% of its capital expenditures each year as stipulated under
the Fourth WAPDA Power Project (Ln. 2499-PAK) (para 6.02(c)).
4.18    Forecast balance  sheets (Annex  4.1) show  that WAPDA's  gross fixed
assets are expected to increase from Rs 43,531 million in FY86 to Rs 158,375
million at the end of FY93. Equity is expected to increase by about three
and one-half times, from Rs 21,971 million in FY86 to Rs 76,419 million in
FY93, with retained earnings accounting to 86% of this increase. Long-term
debt is forecast to increase by about four and one half times, from Rs 23,874
million to Rs 110,928 million, resulting in a deterioration of debt/equity
ratio from 53/47 in FY86 to 59/41 in FY93 which, however, continues to be
reasonable for an electric utility. The coverage of debt service by gross
internal cash generation would be satisfactory during this period as would
the ratio of current  assets to current liabilities.   Nevertheless, in order
to ensure that coverage of WAPDA's debt service coverage by gross internal
cash generation continues to be satisfactory, under the ongoing Bank Group
operations with WAPDA, it has been agreed that WAPDA would consult the Bank
should the utility seek to incur new debt that would result in its gross
internal cash generation before debt service including payment to GOP falling
below 1.5 times the debt service requirement. This agreement is renewed
under the Project (para 6.02(b)).
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Forecasts of WAPDA's Electricity Sales
5.01    WAPDA's  actual  and  projected  electricity  sales  for  the  period
FY76-FY95 are presented in Annex 5.1 and summarized in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1: HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT AND FORECAST OF ELECTRICITY SALES
BY WAPDA BETWEEN FY76 and FY95
Average Annual           Average Annual
Growth Rate              Projected Growth
FY76 - FY85 (Z)          Rate FY86 - FY95 (%)
Energy Sold              11.1                          9.6
Residential              21.4                         12.0
Commercial               15.2                          9.0
Industrial                9.4                          9.0
Agriculture               8.0                          6.0
Electricity consumption increased between FY76 and  FY85 at an average annual
rate of about 11%. This relatively high rate of growth is attributable to:
(i) the  unprecedented  increase  in  the   demand  for  electricity  by  the
industrial sector, particularly the newly developed electricity intensive
industries; (ii) the increased worker's remittances from the Gulf Countries
which maintained a buoyant demand for electricity by the household and com-
mercial sectors; and (iii) maintenance of tariff increases at levels substan-
tially below the increases in the general price level which further stimu-
lated the demand for electricity.



-29-
5.02    WAPDA's forecast  for the period  FY86-FY95 show that  the historical
pattern of electricity consumption is not expected to continue over the next
decade, mainly because of the shortage of generating capacity precipitated by
the slippages in the implementation of its investment program (para 4.06).
In order to minimize these shortages which started to emerge in 1982 and are
expected to continue into the mid 1990s, GOP, in keeping with its comprehen-
sive development strategy, intends to take all necessary measures including
tariff increases to ensure that the core investment program is implemented.
The tariff increases required between FY86 and FY93 to enable WAPDA to
finance 40% of its core program from internal sou:res would amount in real
terms to about 8% annually (para 4.11). In addition, the load research and
management study being initiated by WAPDA would form the basis for restruc-
turing electricity tariffs. These changes in the structure and level of
tariffs together with the initiation of the conservation program agreed to
under the ESL, involving the audit and rehabilitation of the major energy
consuming  industries   which  include   the  large   electricity  consumers,
e.g. steel, cement, glass, etc., are expected to restrain the growth of
demand by inducing consumers to use electricity more rationally.
5.03    In view of the  proposed measures, the rate  of growth of electricity
consumption is forecast to drop from 11.1% in FY76-FY85 to 9.6% in FY86-FY95.
Among consumer categories, the household and commercial sectors are expected
to show the largest drop, primarily because of the planned adjustments in the
structure and level of tariffs  (paras 1.09 and 5.02).   The growth of demand
by the industrial sector, by contrast, is expected to remain virtually
unchanged despite the conservation measures and the planned investments in
industrial rehabilitation, mainly because its increased reliance over the
past few years on captive plants to avoid the disruption caused by the
shortage of power. Consequently, although the higher tariffs and conserva-
tion measures would reduce the power consumption per unit of output, the
increased dependence on public supply for power brought about by the
accelerated development of the subsector would leave the growth of demand for
electricity at the level observed for FY76-FY85. As for the agriculture
sector, the load research and management study would provide the inputs
needed to restructure tariffs for the low voltage consumers, including
agriculture uses. This together with the projected increases in the tariff
is expected to arrest the growth of demand for electricity in the agricul-
ture sector, reducing the rate from 8% for FY76-FY85 to 6% for FY86-FY95.
B. Least Cost Alternative
5.04    The rehabilitation and  retrofitting of the  operating thermal plants
was introduced in the planning model (WASP III) used by WAPDA as one of the
options for  meeting the  sustained growth  in demand  for electricity.   The
results of the optimization showed this option to be part of the least cost
development program for the period (1986-1995), as it improves plant
availability, reduces fuel consumption per kWh of power generated and makes
available additional  200 MW  of  generating  capacity  annually.   The  Bank
reviewed the assumptions used in the optimization and the results and found
them satisfactory.



-30-
C. Return on Investment
5.05    Since the  Project involves both  rehabilitation and  retrofitting of
thermal power plants in WAPDA's system, a separate economic rate of return
was calculated first for each of these components and then for the project as
a whole,  based on  measurable costs  and  benefits.   The  measurable  costs
include: (i) the capital cost of equipment, materials and services required
for the rehabilitation and retrofitting of WAPDA's thermal power plants;
(ii) incremental fuel cost associated with additional generating capacity
made available through rehabilitation; and (iii) operation and maintenance
costs which are assumed at about 5% of the capital cost of equipment. The
investments in the existing power plants to be rehabilitated and retrofitted
are  considered  sunk  and  were  not  included  in  the  calculations.   The
measurable benefits include revenues associated with incremental sales
attributable to the Project and savings in fuel consumption due to improve-
ment in heat rate. Details relating to the assumptions and calculations are
presented in Annex 5.2.
5.06    Based on measurable  costs and benefits, the  economic rate of return
is about 15.7% for the rehabilitation component of the Project and about
16.3% for the component involving the conversion of combustion turbines to
combined cycle operation. On the same basis, the economic rate of return for
the Project taken as a whole is about 16%. These rates of return are
favorable relative to the opportunity cost of capital of 10%, and attest to
the economic viability of the Project and to the fact that it was designed to
take advantage of investment decisions already made.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
6.01    During negotiations, GOP  agreed to cause all  Federal and Provincial
Governmental Agencies and Departments to pay all bills for the supply of
electricity by WAPDA within three months of receipt of the bill (para 4.14);
6.02    During negotiations, WAPDA agreed:
(a) (i) to the Bank's standard audit covenant to enable the Bank to
retain the right of exercising the option of requesting an audit
consistent with its guidelines; and (ii) that the interim arrange-
ments governing WAPDA's audits, requiring WAPDA to submit its annual
accounts, together with Preliminary Audit Observations, within six
months of the end of the fiscal year, would remain in force until the
new internal audit system is in place (para 4.04);
(b) to consult the Bank should it seek to incur new debt that would
result in WAPDA's internal cash generation before debt service and
payment to GOP falling below 1.5 times the debt service requirement
(para 4.18); and



-31-
(c) to take all necessary actions to self-finance at least 401 of its
capital expenditures each year, as stipulated under the Fourth WAPDA
Power Project (Ln. 2499-PAK)(para 4.17).
6.03    The following would be the conditions of effectiveness:
(a) fulfillment by WAPDA/GOP of all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the ODA grant (para 3.05); and
(b)  approval by ECNEC of the PC-I for the Project (para 3.11).
Recommendation
6.04    Subject to the above  conditions, the Project is  suitable for a Bank
loan of US$70.0 million equivalent.



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ProRress Made in Implementing the Enerav Sector Strategy
Current Status
Summary Description of Program                     Target Date                    and Remarks
I. Development and Investment
1.  Hydropower.  Employment of consultants                              Not yet due
to initiate the preparation of a detailed                           -W APDA has prepared the project document
site investigation, engineering and cost        December 31,1986       (PC II) required to obtain GOP's approval
estimates for the Basha site.                                          for the study.
- Financing for the study is expected to be
secured from CIDA and other bilateral
agencies.
2.  Petroleum Products Subsector.                    March 31, 1986      The consultants Foster & Wheeler (FW) have
submitted the final report to GOP in
Completion of a study to                        (complete the       November 1986.  The report is being
establish a least cost plan                      study)             currently revieved by the concerned
for the development of infra-                                       Ministries and agencies; on completion of
structure for the production,                                       this review, the report will be discussed
transport and delivery of                       June 30, 1986       by the GOP's Energy Review Group (ERG) and
products; and review of the                     (review with        Economic Coordination Committee of the
result of such study with the                    the Bank)           Cabinet (ECC).  Those Projects which the
Bank.                                                               ERG and ECC consider to be justified would
then form a part of the core investment
program and reflected in the formulation
of the the Seventh Five-Year Plan.
3.  Coal.  Completion of a study                     September 30,       Consultants, Energy Development Interna-
on promotion of accelerated                      1986                tional (EDI) and Price Waterhouse, have
development to identify the                      (complete the       submitted the draft report, which is
main operational constraints;                    study)              under review by GOP.
and initiation of a plan of
action to address such con-                                                                                                   a "
straints.
I-.
a/ As per schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement, and                                                                                   0%
Policy (Annex IV of the President's Report).



4.  Core Investmeat Proaram (CIP).                April 30, 1986       The Bank has reviewed with GOP the progress
GOP has outlined a CIP which en-                                  made in implementing the CIP for FY86 and in
compasses high priority projects                                  mobilizing resources for the CIP for FY87 and
to be completed or initiated during                               has found it to be satisfactory.
the years FY86 to FY88. Implementa-
of the CIP is to be monitored in
detail annually.
5.  Hydrocarbon.  Development of a                April 30, 1986       OGDC has submitted to the Bank their
national policy aimed at increasing           (first review       FY87 development program comprising comple-
the level of private equity invest-            with Bank)         tio,n of ongoing wells and drilling of new
ment in botb exploration and develop-                             n,'fw exploratory and development wells. The
ment and balancing the public and                                 Bank has also reviewed the status of new
private sector involvement.  GOP                                  joint ventures in four-concession areas
would review annually with the Bank                               recently signed with two private sector
the progress made in increasing pri-                              companies -Crescent and Pakistan Oilfields
vate sector participation and in im-                              Ltd. - and found it to be encouraging.
plementing OGDC's Core Investment
Program (CIP).
6.  Power Subsector. Formulation of a least         December 31,      The revised national long-term least cost
cost national plan based on more detailed                         plan, vhich incorporates the more recent
data to replace the existing interim pro-       1986 (review      developments in the subsector was completed
gram.                                           with the Bank)   end-December 1986.  The plan would be
reviewed jointly by GOP, WAPDA and the Bank
in March 1987.
II. Pricing and Demand Manaaement
7.  Gas Consumer Prices.  Undertake gradual          June 30, 1988    GOP increased the gas consumer prices
increases in the domestic price of natural                        effective July 1985 by about 50% on an
gas to reach two-thirds of the border price                       overall basis to reach abtut 65% of the
of fuel oil, and thereafter review vith the                       then border price of fuel oil of US$143
Bank the general strategy and further mea-                        per ton.  With the recent drop in oil
sures for inducing consumers to use gas more                      prices, the average consumer price of gas
rationally and mobilize resources for the                         is at about 120% of the border price of
development of the subsector.                                     fuel oil of about US$75 per toe.
8.  Gas Producer Prices.  Announce the new          June 30, 1985    GOP announced the formula on June 8, 1985,
producer pricing formula linking it to          (announce the    and widely publicized it in the press.
the international price of fuel oil,             formula)         It links the price paid to producers of gas              S
and wilely publicize it within oil in-                            discovered after September 30, 1985 to 662
dustry circles.  In addition, keep the                            of fuel oil price less a negotiable discount
operation of this formula under review.                           for geological risk, location of the conces-
sion, etc.  This initiative has been welcomed            0
by the private sector: one foreign oil
company is in the process of bringing into



production an already discovered gas field
in the southern part of Pakistan and two new
concessions have been signed with foreign
oil companies. Moreover, the Government, on
appropriate terms, intends to consider the
application of this formula to fields which
were already discovered, but not yet in
production, and to future gas fields which
would be developed in the existing conces-
sions.
9.  Coal Imuorts.  Allow the imports of coal         December 31,      The prefeasibility study was completed in April
for power generation around Karachi, fol-       1987              1986 by consultants SKARINIGAN INTEG, under
lowing the completion of the feasibility         (complete the    financing from CIDA and the Bank.  The detailed
study and detailed engineering and the            study)          feasibility study of the power and marine
estsblishment of a coal-fired power                                facilities at the 'Khalifa point' site west of
complex                                                           Karachi, for which GOP has already approved the
project document PC-II, is proposed to be
financed under the ongoing Fifth WAPDA Project.
VAPDA bas issued on January 1, 1987 the letter
of i-vitation alongvith terms of reference to
the five shortlisted consultants for submission
of their proposals.
10. Coal Pricina.  Complete a study to:              November 30,      The study is being financed under the ongoing
(i) outline a atrategy for corporate            1986              Technical Assistance Credit.  GOP has awarded                            £
restructuring of Pakistan Mineral               (complete the    the contract to British Nining Consultaazts
DevelopmeLt Corpcration (WiDC) and              study)            (BMC), wbo have started the vork in October
technical improvements to promote                                 1986 and expect to complete the study by
the more efficient operation of mines                             April 1987.
in the public sector; and (ii) provide
a basis for reviewing the role of the
pvblic sector in coal mining.
11. Gaas 7Sad WARalaement.  Initi^te a study        December 31.      The study is being financed under the energy
to revise (i) revise GOP's Development          1985 (initiate   sector loan.  GOP and S*GPL have accepted in
Plar. to deteimine the optimal supply and       the study)        August 1986 the offer of Gas Development
utilization pattern for the next five                             Corporation, USA to undertake the study.
years; and (ii) outline a demand manage-        December 31,      However, the signing of contract agreement
sent policy aimed at improving the               1986 (review     between GDC and GOP has been delayed by over
efficiency of gas supply and consumption.       the results of   four months because of GOP's reluctance to
the study with   grant a tax waiver to consultants.  In the
the Bank)        event that GDC starts the work in March
1987, as is presently envisaged, the draft                     w ,
final report would be available by September                   o .
1987 and the final report by November 1987.
12. Demand Manaieent in the Public Sector:          November 1,       ENAR Petrotech, local consultauts have already
Initiate a program of energy audits in          1985 (initiate   surveyed and identified the 20 largest energy



at least 20 of the largest energy consum-       the audits)       consuming plants in tbe public sector-; and are
ing plants, in accordance with TOR and the                        now in the process of undertaking energy audits
timetable for energy audits and related         June 30, 1987    of these plants.  In addition, GOP has requested
feasibility studies acceptable to the           (complete the    the Bank that the total loan amount of US$3
Bank, with the work to be performed by           program)         million be utilized for the instrumentsaton and
local and foreign consultants.                                    other immediate energy conservation teeds of
Pakistan Steel.
III. Institutional Develonment
13. Onerational Autonomy of OGDC.                   June 30, 1986    In order to strengthen OGDC's organizational
Identify and take measures to strengthen        (review with      structure and to move it toward financial
OGDC's managerial and technical capabi-         the Bank)         self-reliance, assistance would be required in
lities and to move OGDC towards financial                         areas of: (i) accounting from an international
self-reliance.                                                    firm to produce without qualification and
accounting audit and balance sheet of OGDC;
(ii) a modern management information system
focussed inter alia on cost accounting,
inventory, and stores control. In addition,
assistance would also be required in the
implementation of above systems. Under the
Pirkoh Gas Project (Phase II) financed by
ADB, OGDC has recruited consultants in
November 1986 to undertake an operational
strategy study with a view to possible
restructuring of its subsidiary, Pirkoh
Gas Company, Ltd.
14. Reorganization of Power Subsector.              June 30, 1986    As a first step, a new Power Distribution
Review the means for reorganizing the                             Wing has been created in WAPDA and its
power subsector, including the possi-                             functions have been consolidated under the
bility of separating distribution of                              position of a Deputy Managing Director.  In
electricity from WAPDA and assigning                              addition, in order to promote the integrated
WAPDA with the responsibility of                                  development of the power subsector, GOP is
generation and transmission of                                    presently examining the legal implications
electricity for the entire country,                               of assigning to WAPDA the responsibility of
together with the schedule of their                               generation and high voltage transmission of
implementation.                                                   electricity for the entire country and
restricting KESC's operation to the bulk
purchase of power from WAPDA for distribution
in the Karachi area.  Consideration is also               " z
being given by GOP to private sector involve-              > 
ment in the power subsector for which a
National Deregulation Commission headed by
the Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan u
was appointed by GOP in August 1985. ECC



has also approved a charter of terms and
conditions under which the private sector
would be invited to participate in power
generation. A detailed framework for
compensating potential private firms
involved in the supply of power in Pakistan
is currently being formulated in collabora-
tion with the Bank and ISAID.
15. Enera, Conservation.  Establish and             December 31,      GOP has established a National Energy
thereafter maintain a National Energy           1985              Conservation Center (ENERCON) for the overall
Conservation Centre (ENERCON) under                               coordination of energy conservation
GOP's Ministry of Planning and Develop-                           activities.  It is under the purview of the
ment, whose structure, operational                                Ministry of Planning and Development and is
program, staffing and funding is                                  administered by a Council for Energy
acceptable to the Bank.                                           Conservation, comprising senior representa-
tives from concerned ministries. The Council
is to be guided by an Advisory Committee,
consisting of representatives from GOP,
provincial goverrments, VAPDA, and the Federal
of Chamber of Commerce and Industries. It is
responsible for planning energy conservation
actions, formulating policy guidelines,
developing a data base, supporting training
activities and private research, undertaking
development and demonstration, as well as public
information activities, and monitoring the
entities. Despite a delay in its establishment
and staffing, ENERCON has made substantial
progress in the areas of: (i) planning and
legislation; (ii) data base development for
transport, building and industry; (iii) energy
audits; (iv) training and curriculum development;
and (v) information and outreach programs.
A draft report on energy use in Pakistan's
agricultural sector has also been completed,
which would be reviewed by the Bank.
16. Enerlv Conservgtion in the Private              December 31,      GOP has decided to undertake private sector-
Sector.  ENERCON to identify at least           1985              wide energy consumption survey, to be financed
15 of the largest private sector energy         (initiate         under the ongoing Technical Assistance Credit.
consuming industrial plants for energy           audits)          GOP awarded in August 1986 the contract to
eQ z
audits to be performed by local and                               Zelin Ltd. (in association with Arthur D. Little          a
foreign consultants; review with the                              of USA) to undertake the survey which would also
Bank the TOR and the timetable for such         December 31,      provide an input to ENERCON for identifying the           O
energy audits and the related feasibi-          1987              plants and initiating energy audits.
lity studies; and take necessary mea-           (complete
sures to cause such audits to be initi-          audits)
ated and completed in the next two years.



17. Enerav Plannina.  Annually review with          April 30, 1986   The Government has established an Office of
the Bank the work undertaken by the new                          Energy Planning under financing from the United
office of Energy Planning and Development       (first review)   States Agency for International Development
(ENERPLAN) established under the GOP's                           (USAID) in the Ministry of Planning and
Ministry of Planning and Development, as                         Development to address substantive policy issues.
well as the ENERCON to be set up under                           Specifically, it is mandated to collect, compile
the loan.                                                        and analyze, on an ongoing basis, all relevant
data on the energy sector and integrate them with
the country's development plans to enable the
Government to identify priorities, evaluate
resource requirements, support effective policy
formulation and investment planning. Consultants
have been recruited, and about one-half of the
sanctioned positions have been filled. Work is
currently underway on: (i) reviewing the
performance of the energy sector entities
during the current plan period; and (ii) prepa-
ration of the Seventh Five-Year Plan and a
long-term (20-year) plan for the energy sector.
Draft reports of these plans are expected to be
completed by mid-1987. These reports would be
reviewed jointly by GOP, the Bank and USAID.
Recently, GOP has merged ENERPLAN with the
energy division of MPD to form an Energy Wing
to further strengthen energy planning and
streamline the institutional setting.
18. Manuower Development.  Undertake a manpower needs    -           ENERPLAN has been assigned the task of under-
assessment to determine:  (a) ther range of tech-                taking the proposed assessment.  A preliminary
nical, management, and analytical skills needed                  report was prepared end 1985 by USAID financed
to accomplish the goals of energy programs; (b)                  consultants Arther D. Little (ADL) and submitted
the present capabilities of local institutions                   to ENERPLAN for review and appropriate action.
to meet these needs (c) the priorities to in-                    Math Tech will further refine the report pre-
crease skills to meet these needs; and (d) actions               pared by ADL and assist in implementing the
necessary to improve existing programs for this                  manpower needs assessment program.
purpose, together with the cost and time require-
ments.
o0.
**4g-
0%



PAKISTAN
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
organization Chart
WC                 II  EHJ                                                            I ECNE
(HGh ae0 GCPe (endo&                                                            (pectcas
ooIMh bvfd l-           M         ttw*iotd  C b,t             d                 aMP aPwd yOep&iv   -
dt Peren)                                                                 *     d F9 &t  I*)
M Y~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE chde by|
1~~~I                                                                                                                      -  | r | %|  
Z | cWa                            "                1                              r          Z Ei 
en    elfln          _ &Ra(                                                       G     nD                      IP
OwototGeiwot  OPector     O~~ctat ~P                                                                           Nuet RsEnum oregemch&                   (C.vdnatb
oes-.esot  L .i~~~~~~~~C~Vi                     I~~~wow a~ Powerroln                      .eiirtn              iPk""&Of
_aour              ott              Gs            ttev          L    .Ll                                  ,              &Rmorh)          (&uIhoS  thr         w a18 wp
*  *                          Pmouoee                                                  p                                1~~~~~~~~~I~~1IWtd  CO,o*WdIbavC t
t   ,           t        I           I                               I                ,tI                '-f
9SPL ~ ~~ ~~~~           Jo" PxMDC             ODPw *§(ood
POt~~~ IR                                       I      b        tv~eOt               6S SC
PR               PMC             SS                 W          CO                       L                                                                       OeIfGl
WX~~~~~~~~~~~~ F                                           S                li                        W P            d       ppI
PPSLN (M~~~~~~~~~~I)  PSO      coteclion &                                                           Poercnealm,po                                      o
ocy                aIX            PSO           1Wottcot energy
dtoet c.)
NP- Naton Enegv Pltcy Comrtte.              OXV - Offldena Coad USA    E E - 9dtf  &ddm at &nro & hll
13,- BlegRtwa'Gro                         1*100- Pol.aMneat OloomptCiomnon              PERC - Stte P       l~tsn~E*g  orcei oC p.
-2 CotersWt EconfomicCoorlotlonb Commtftee  O    G eoP-Gicl9ae a ditn                    N     RL-NainL-IeNeytd
ECtC -E2C1Ah CotWitS ~VPNtbWo                    1t-     c Poldo Itefns td                   W NF tI.-nl Ptoleum Ltd (it proposed jcoiedt)
Econond Counci<wl ARtN-Gtoack eetd                                                 WAPtMAC-  a   APDeAemeAEC
aPo- CentrA D        n    naro PoS           PC  - R-Pa oAr filrCo.                        K(ESC--rc Becmc 94p C a
06CC-C & 0   DPSnT  COtPS                      PSO _ PC  S9ate O     L                        -     r   A
POt-P n Ol Ltdx                               Pli-Plh  &rMat Shell                       AlDO -A p1          Ct         _nO         n
W t - NO"dtan Petiten Ltt                    C1X - COlterat  CoUSA  BdUANtAM - Biesgy P IArna & D $hellpeX
SW -       RX.IFu Ion                       PS= - Pl-Sul N  hem       TCP P                      FfR Ltd  N-             C       Cor
UIION -Union bE  Co at USA                    SStC -Sul GOa togireriret Co.                Ltd
s6c-some,,,Gascs,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Wn Bore-25a8S
E-L
EconorNe Courco  ARL - Aftck ReNerV Ltd  WAPDA-~~
aNiP- CaM Dmomw WoO  Paty  PROO   PaArobRoot C*  XBC- Km" Bft &)pf CaptjN



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
chakmnio
rbw (Po-)
Pr*&~~~~~~ P-*   I         Ie;;i; 1lbb (lw
Glretal    W  |sctoG Gene |a Ciiet EnIneer IA'Aeneial .     enea I in aI
(TOMSIO)    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~WS2~                (PubIcRelfn)   (Cwerntay C    oi-uW  otVo
l4~1c~~al ,4               Memter(\|tor)                        _                            .             lCe&
( tR ;D.)                                                                  #ingnwrK a7I i)                         t         |
(Na)    II    (Dolt%)          flrA~j [ 1 ()         I(Co rdnaf1  (Generaflcfl)  II    (~)            r    I(AVWal259)
,-   .                         l~e              .eea Maa
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                       (Cw, t iafl)0,  t 
(Soth      rT~ea           -1(Wt j 1)    r                            (D ,~~ln   I (bwnUyatll
-    1c           Grer Mngr                                 Lga              Geea  ae
(Wtr      (KalabgPrajert)                                              (Fkac(P)
Wad  ar-2sess
I1



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Orqanization Chart - Power Wing
ma-o iDilecta|
%*Wrber (Powesg (owr                         TfOrlrUlIOtO              (C.  &G
,or G,rdi ;;1   |     Generoti MrK                    mngeiN           (T,        g                                                      Goni i manGer| 
Fi- h P)    l         Diibutboe                  GerCOmmrcIa        Chie Engtine)
Chief Engineer           Chief Engineer                              Cief E|G .i
Tno hditute ~~~R.E O.             _           _ob  Cill T         &GS  Sve  P 1ote(iCt)on
r ChetEoineet E gw       Chief Engineer         Chief Enrgin          C Eeirgw
D|  g (Dist )rit      1     y (Noth)              PO Dvrectr           Deig 1             TboPrctb                    I-)   G
Chhconhmen         i                                                                                                    Dp. en
| CCanmscbl L    j   CE/E  |  r Chi  Eri  |                     CiE       r  l    i. Gr
|ObOd  Volbad               e  y.                   HQ (T.e  &)  |1ctln  GSC (South)
ChengI Chief Eneineer                                                            Chef Ent nger
Lood Dtpatch2589
T-I.1z .HV  (Di.)                                                                                 Cn
Che@f Enine         Dip Gen.Es7ner1
| ChCliltMnAEBS  |      j   ~~~Chb1 Engiar          Chle Engieer |                                                                                                °dt
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                             So rv  KI  .  r-i
H { t t 1 T E l S~~~~~~~~~Chief Erg  w
l l   l   l                l l    r    ~~~~~~~~~~~CE/RE    |Chief Eineer  |
Hft                     CuftI Ga>nwk            Powe P>House             G.S.0      |
0  Hyd    |   |    bof    0    -|  Chb~~~~ev.(Geertion)l      G.S.C. (South)|
4 1 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~hief Eng q                                Chie E gkEw
|  ChCCfErher                                                                                                            2
projects



-41-
ANNEX 2.3
PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Forecast Electricity Generation
(GWh)
POWER STATION   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
…__________-   -----  ---.- -____    -----   -----  -----  -----
HYDEL
TARBELA           8703   9238   9396  10175  11763  12222  12550
MANGLA             5222   5313   5371   5556   5553   5580   5656
WARSAK              770   1254   1270   1270   1225   1231   1250
SMALL HYDEL        505    534    484    730    734    738   1686
--…_ _   -----  -----  -----        -----  -----
TOTAL HYDEL      15200  16339  16521  17731  19275  19771  21142
THERMAL
TPS GUDDU          3323   3253   3458   3372   3316   3512   3603
NGPS MULTAN        1236   1171   1222    927   1261   3127   3136
SPS FAISLABAD      678    597    625    505    441    521    529
GTPS FAISLABAD     336    359    417    403        0      0      0
TPS SUKKUR         259    202    213    173    148    178    179
NTPS HYDERABAD      149    151    158    124      69     82     82
GTPS KOTRI         198    221    258    264       87     87     85
GTPS SHADARA         69    131    151    154      51     36     36
GTPS QUETTA        130    172    195    184       92     98     97
REPCO MESCO         74    146    152    124    109    129    131
GUDDU GAS TURB.   1708    164       0      0       0      0      0
KOT ADU GAS TURB   689    739   1556   1704    285    291    281
GUDDU - CS         280   2246   2591   2531   2489   2633   2702
JOMSHORO -1 & 2       0      0    886   1618   1699   1945   1945
KOT ADDU - CS        0       0      0   1056   3565   3512   3603
JOMSHORO -3 &4        0      0      0      0       0      0    803
FAISALABAD - CS      0       0      0    528   1785   1756   1802
LAKHRA COAL          0       0      0      0       0    298   1458
_____                 ---- -        -----  ----
TOTAL THERMAL     9129   9552  11882  13667  15397  18205  20472
…____  -____  _____    -----         ----_   ----
TOTAL GENERATION 24329  25891  28403  31398  34672  37976  41614
C=___ =====  s====  ==s==  =====  = -ss  =_==



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICI ENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Thermal Power Generation Statistics
STEM UNITS
STATION   PERIOD tt SERVICE      CAPACITY              UNIT UTILIZATION                                SEIERATIO'                       FUEL                EFFICIE
TTAL AS F JUINE 30, I5       IN FY  5      TOTAL AS OF JUIE 30, 1985      IN FY 85      SIIWEM        BY
DATE    YEARS          (El)                                                           AUAL    LOAD              LOAD  TYPE 11 FY 85 (1)    QESIUtED           FYS
OF      IN                      RUWNING  AVERAGE PER YEAR                    TOTAL  AVERAE  FACTOR            FACTOR            FURNAMCE STtIKl0    tt)   81/It   (tt
ULIT CIMISS. SERVICE NOMINAL EFFECTIYE HOURS (hi  (h)       (1      (thi     (        So ib)l  (1611lt2) 1    (lh)  tO  1/    SAS      OIL
LrTAN      I  61460        25.1    65.0    60.0   135563    5402    61.7    4614    52.7                                 229.0    83.0                     10663    32.0
2  611960      25.1    65.0    60.0   127912    50SW       58.2    7926    uo.5                               370.2    77.9                     1w663    32.0
3   1211963    21.6    65.0    60.0   143406    6641    75.    89002    Y1.3                                 367.6    76.6                      10663    32.0
4   1211963    21.6    65.0    60.0   147427    6827    77.9    8134    92.9                                 332.9    68.2                      10663    32.0
SUTOTAIL                       260.0   240.0                                                                         1300.5
AVERAE                                                    5992    68.4    7169    91.9                               325.0    75.6    68.0    32.0   10663    32.0   11996    29.4
HYDERA    1  511960       25.2      7.5      6.0   170981    6790    77.5    8263    94.3                                 41.5    83.7                     17959     19.0
2  5/1960      25.2     7.5      6.0   180236    7158    81.7    8669    99.0                                 46.2    88.S                       7958    19.0
3  6/1965      20.1     8.0      8.0    80227    393    45.6    3403    38.8                                  13.6    50.0                      17958    19.0
4  611967      18.1    15.0      9.0   105719    5843    66.7      90    99.1                                 32.7    47.6                      1795     19.0
SUBTOTAL                        38.0    28.0                                                                          134.0
AVERAGE                                                   5946    67.9    7231    82.5                                33.5    66.2    96.0       4.0   17Y59    15.0   19914    17.1
SuXvaR     1  3/1965      20.3    12.5    12.5   129828    6381    72.8    7289    83.2                                   68.1    74.7                     14856    23.0  19776.0    17.3
2  3/19165     20.3    12.5    12.5   132796    6527    74.5    7763   89.6                                   71.7    73.9                      14956    23.0  19815.0    17.2
3  411967      18.3    12.5    12.5   124533    6820    77.9    6244    71.3                                  50.1    64.2                      14856    23.0  11812.0    17.2
4  411967      19.3    12.5    12.5   121773    6669    76.1    7565    96.4                                  69.7    73.7                      14156    23.0  19756.0    17.3
SUBTOTAL                        50.0    50.0                                                                          259.6
AVERAGE                                                   6599    75.3    7215    82.4                                64.9    72.0   100.0       0.0   14856    23.0   £9790    17.2
FAISALABAD  1  611967      19.1    b6.0    60.0   119995    6577    75.1    7487    85.5                                 355.0    79.0
2  11/1967    17.7    66.0    60.0   117215    6432    75.7    6227    71.1                                  316.4    84.7
SUBTOTAL                       132.0   120.0                                               9581.0                     671.4
AVERA                                                     6604    75.4    6857    70.3                               335.7    81.6    61.0    39.0   12057    28.3   11729    29.1
tUDDU      t  3/1974       11.3   110.0   110.0    75462                       7084    80.9                              527.6    67.7                      9099    37.5
2   10/1974    10.8   l10.D   110.0    61619                        7670    87.6                             599.4    71.0                       9099    37.5                          0 .
3   12/1190     4.6   210.0   210.0    35575                       5809    66.3                             1123.2    92.1                       9099    37.5
SUBTOTAL                       430.0   430.0                                                                         2250.2
AVERAGE                                                                    6854   5.7                               562.5    76.3    Y9.0       1.0    9099    37.5   11398    29.9
TOTAL STEAR                       910.0   868.0                                                                         4615.7
AVERAGE                                                                        7065    76.7                                       74.3
AVERAGE AGE/lt (Yrs.)     14.9
- -Lo- - F----  - --.------ -  -  - - b---- -  -.-t-------- - - -------f- - -----------
I/ Ltsd Fictor(tXring atttlizattntm) - Seneration/AtmRnning RaortEffective Cqtcity)?



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Thermal Power Generation Statistics
CNUSTIO  TURBINES
STATIO    PERIOD IN SERVICE      CAPACITY             UNIT UTILIZATION                               6ENRTIN                           FUEL               EFFICIENCY
TOTAL AS OF Jim 30, t9       IN FY 85      TOTAL AS OF JNE 30, 19M       IN FYT 85  B     AKO y
lATE    YEARS         (FM IIL    tLo                                                                          LOUD  TYPE IN FY 95 1£       ESIND           FM
OF      IN                     RIIN  AVERE PER YEAR                        TOTAL  AVERG  FACTOR             FACTOR           FURNC  BTU/Oh   l1)  BTU/KIt   11)
tINIT COlBISS. SRICE IUINAL EFFECTIVE HOURS (h      l (hI  (i2     (hi      (2£    (GM)   (G6i   IU  1/  (Sh)  (1) It   GAS            OIL
SHIAMR     1  911966      19.9    13.3    11.0    30714    1623    IB.5    2407    27.5                                 23.6    99.1
2  811966      18.9    13.3    11.0    35634    1883    21.5    2370    27.1                                24.5    94.0
3  10t9lS9    15.8    14.9    12.0    23549    1495    17.1    2226    25.4                                 22.7    85.0
4  1011969    15.9    14.8    12.0    24931    15B2    18.1    2141    24.4                                 22.4    97.2
5  10/t969    15.8    14.6    12.0    253        1606    19.3    2255    25.7                               21.7    80.2
6  10/1969    15.8    14.8    12.0    23421    1486    17.0    2289    26.1                                 22.6    82.3
SUBTOTAL                       85.5    70.0                                                                          37.5
AEA                                                      1613    15.4    2291                                       22.9              0.0   100.0   14217    24.0   17400    19.6
lOTRI      £  2f1970      15.4    15.0    11.0    39309    2549    29.1    2476    29.3                                 20.2    74.2
2  2/1970      15.4    15.0    11.0    45244    2934    33.5    2376    27.1                                19.6    75.0
3  1211979      6.6    25.0    25.0    19950    2378    32.9    2133    24.3                                 31.7    59.4
4  1211978      6.6    25.0    25.0    235       3573    40.      2922    33.4                              42.2    57.8
5  511981       4.2    25.0    25.0    17276    4146    47.3    4157    47.5                                 76.0    73.1
6  5/19S1       4.2    25.0    25.0    16137    3872    44.2    3769    43.0                                66.0    tO.1
SIBTITAL                       130.0   122.0                                                                        255.7
AVERAE                                                   3326    39.0    2972    33.9                               42.6             14.0    U6.0   1550      22.0   18574    18.4
cAISALD   1  311975       10.3    25.0    25.0    19629    1898    21.7    4182    47.7                                 30.0    76.5
2  3/1975      10.3    25.0    25.0    15457    1495    17.1       979    11.2                               17.5    71.5
3  6/1975      10.1    25.0    25.0    18749    1959    21.2    3966    45.3                                75.0    75.6
4  6/l975      10.1    25.0    25.0   1410    1924    22.0    4425    50.5                                 71.5    64.6
5  9S1975       9.9    25.0    25.0    20190    2053    23.4    4091    46.7                                80.0    78.2
6  1t0lS75      9.8    25.0    25.0    18652    1912    21.0    390    44.4                                 73.0    75.1
7  1t01975      9.8    25.0    25.0    16113    1652    18.9    3793    43.2                                70.5    74.5
8  IIIIS75      9.7    25.0    25.0    91810    1980    21.5    4293    49.0                                81.4    75.0
BuBtOTaL                      200.0   200.0                                                                         559.0
AvowAE                                                   1934    20.9    3701    42.2                               69.9    74.0    72.9    27.1   12273    27.9   14961    22.8              r.j
0~
TOTAL 6AS TURBINE                415.5   392.0                                                                         952.2
AVERE                                                        2257    25.8
AERASE AGEIHI (Yrs.)              10.7
It Load Factr(dlring stilizatioul = 6eceratioa/(CRumniag WoursEffettive CapKity)l



-44-
ANNEX 3.1
PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Description
The proposed Project consists of the following components:
(a)     Rehabilitation of the existing Steam Units and Combustion Turbine
Generators (CTG).
Power Station                     Unit Nos.             Type of Unit
1.  Sukkur                        1 to 4                      S
2.  Guddu                         1 to 3                      S
3.  Faisalabad                    1 and 2                     S
4.  Quetta                        1 and 2                     S
5.  Multan                        1 to 4                      S
6.  Guddu                         5                          CTG
7.  Kotri                         2 to 4 and 6               CTG
8.  Faisalabad                    1 to 8                     CTG
9.  Shahdra                       1, 2 and 5                 CTG
10.  Quetta                        3 and 5                    CTG
The major rehabilitation works to be carried out on these units are detailed
in Attachment 1 and the salient performance parameters in Attachment 2.
(b)     Conversion to combined cycle operation of eight combustion turbines
generators of 25 MW, four each at Faisalabad and Kotri power stations.
Combined cycle conversion will involve: (i) installation of four heat
recovery boilers (HRB) connected to the four CTGs; and (ii) two steam
turbogenerators (STG) of appropriate capacity (around 20 MW each). The HRBs
will be unfired, dual pressure steam boilers designed to accept the maximum
exhaust temperature and gas flow of the connected CTG. STGs and YRBs will
be designed for sliding pressure operation over a wide range to respond to
CTG load variation. The generators will be either air-cooled with an output
voltage of about 11 kV. Associated electrical, control and instrumentation,
substation, switchyard equipment, together with other associated installation
will be provided for each unit. Closed cycle cooling system using cooling
towers will be installed at each of the stationa.
(c)     Consultants for design, preparation of implementation schedules,
bidding documents, evaluation, project supervision and development and
implementation of computerized systems for maintenance and spares parts
management.
(d)     Trt..ning in operation, maintenance and spares parts management.
(e)     Tools, instruments and vehicles.



-45-
ANNEX 3.1
PAKISTAN                           Attachment 1
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Major Works Included in the Rehabilitation Program
A
(a). Turbines
A4.dition of evaporative cooling system.
Repair of lube oil and air coolers.
Selective turbine overhaul.
Selective turbine blade replacement.
(b) Boilers
Installation of steam coil heaters.
Installation of soot blowers.
Repair/replacement of fan and air heaters.
(c) Balance of Plant
Replacement and upgrading of water filtering system.
Addition/replacement/modification of cooling towers.
Repair of boiler feed pumps.
Repair of feed water heaters.
Addition and upgrading of fuel treatment facilities.
(d) Instrumentation, Controls and Electrical
Replacement and upgrading of combustion control system.
Addition of fuel metering stations.
Replacement and upgrading of turbine supervisory control system.
Addition of vibrometers to feedwater pumps.
Improvement in substation and circuit breaker operation.
(e) Water Treatment
Provision of additional capacity.
Provision of additional testing equipment.
(f) Fuel Treatment
Installation of fuel treatment plants, metering stations, monitors
and atomizing equipment to improve and regulate the quality of
HSD/fuel oil to combustion turbines. Replacement of pump suctions
and discharge strainers.



PAKISTAN
WATER AN) POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Salient Parameters
STEAM UNITS
SUKKUR                      GUDDU              FAISALABAD       QUETTA                 MULTAN
Unit                              t       2       3      4       1       2        3       1       2       1      2       1      2       3         4
Design Capacity (MW)          12.5    12.5   12.5   12.5    110        110      210     66       66    7.5    7.5       65     65      65        65
Date of Unit
Commissioning              3/1965  3/1965 4/1967 4/1967 3/1974 10/1974 12/1980 6/;967 11/1967 9/1964 9/1964 6J .960 6/1960 12/1963 12/1963
Unit age (years)                21       21      19     18      12      11        5      19      18      21     21      26     26      22        22
Fuel                             G        6      G       G   FO/G    FO/G    FO/G   FOJ.    FOJG          C      C   FO/G   FO/G   FO/G       FO/
Derated capacity as                                                                                                                                    l
observed and corrected                                                                                                                                 >
to ISOMNEMA (MW)              11.4        9   10.6      10   70.1       80      210   49.5    53.2        0    4.6      60     51      52       45     1
Capacity Improvement (MW)        0      3.5    1.9    1.5   26.7    26.7          0    3.6       .4    7.5    2.9        4    1.5      .5         7
Design/expected turbine
gross heat rate BTU/kWh    11274   11275  11275  11275   8687    8687    8077   9146    9146  10749  10749   9068   9068   9068               9068
Observed turbine gross
heat rate BTU/kWh            13840   13483  13428  13500  11596   10470    8321  10211    9505  12000  13732   9668  10244   9585    10527
Improved turbine gross
heat rate BTU/kWh            10736   12467  12598  12524   9193    9193    8321   9611    9525  11500  11352   9468  10065   9385             981S
Improvement turbine
gross heat rate BTU/kWh       3104    1016    830    976   3685    3685           0    600       60    500   2380    200    179    200         712
Observed hsat input e
BTU/hr (10 )                173000  168538 167850 168750 1275560 1151700 1747410 637926 632510  90000 102990 628420 665860 623025   684255
Improved hgat input *'
RTUJhr (W0 )                134200  155838 157475 156550 1011203 1011203 1747410 634326 628650  86250  85140 615420 654225 610025   637975
C = Cost                                                                                                                                     o  t :2
PO * Furnace Oil                                                                                                                                 ^ X
NSDO = High Speed Diesel Oil                                                                                                                        9 -
C.  Ga5 s 
*0 = Fuel consumption based on 100% capacity.                                                                                                 0 (D;



PAKISTAN
WATER AND PER. DFEVELOPW    ArTR0TY
PtERR PLANT EPPICUIECY INPROVEUXT PtOJECT
Co5bustionk Turbines
60792 ~   ~        ~        ~       F t IASAtO                          -We. -M7
Unit                          2         3        4       6             .   2        3       4       s        6        7         f       1       2         s         5         s       5        6
Oaigs  Captaety (101)         i5       25       25      25        25       25      25      25      25       25       25        25   13.25   13.25    14.75          9         7      25        35
Date of Unit
Co_i* o.tgei            2/1970  12/1978  1211970  s/ISS1    3/197S  3/197S  6/1975  6/1976  9(1975  10(1975  10/1979  1t1/97S  6/1966  6t/6"  to1/969t   6/1975    5/t972  V1/975  11/1964
unitabe (years)               is        7        7       5        Is       11     ti       II      to       *o        10       to      20      20        16        II        13      il
Fuel                     HSOI/G   HSOOI/  1450G  tS0o0    HSOOIG  nSOOf/  11SO0/G  1S5O0/a   0Soofo   4SOIG  ttSOOtC  1SDC00/   "S500/  HSttOIG  1S50/0           0      "StC0   1405     ¢tSO
herated Capacity a.
oSeervad an corrected
tO I50/1l0  (KW)             12       21      21.2   23.3       21.9    24.6    24.9   20.4   24.8        19.7    20.3    20.3         11    10.6      11.1         0         4       9     29.2
capacity mproaent (-)         6       2.6      2.6     0.8       0.1    0.2       0.2     2.0     0.2      2.0      1.8       2.0       2     2.6         2         9       1.4       0        0
0.Siun/eapect.d tuerb ill
grass htet rate artrU/kh    14819   1t336    13764   12961     13251   13251   13261   13251   13251    13251    13251    13251    414   14014    13403         15000     13656   13000    12845
Observed turbinea goss.
host rate 6S7t*/h    °    18475    15627    13008   146O        14600   14600   14522   14s22   14600    14937    14311    1sss7   14600   14812    14202       17000      6S699  15o0o    12371
Znpioved turbIne gross
halt rat. 8Iitkh          *7475    14827    1499?   13008      14600   14600   14600   13122   14400    l3737    14311    16357   13900   13612    13502        17000      559ss    15000    12371
Inprv, It turbine
*sess heat rate 8T11/h      1000    tOOO      1000       0         0        a       0    1400       0      M200        0      200     700    1000       700         0      1000       0         0
observed hatInput 55
TRthhr C0 I              277128   30067S   399925   325200   365000 36501100  366000  3306   366000   373425   367775   3"6925  18450  193S09   209460    S53000    1S5t93  37SOOO   432966
Lpvd  at input 05
ttrhi (Io)Xb          26212S   365675   474926   325200   36S000  36O600  366000  323o05   366000   34342S   35777S   369"26  14765  180359   199166    1S3000    109193  375OO   432965
PO   F ur"*" Oil       Ol
c 10    O"oh So"oe        i
Fe *        out     bt
*5 at ueopl 6ne_tia  based cn 1   capcty.



-48-
PAKISTAN                                         ANNEX 3.2
WATER AND POWER DEVEOP UkIIT ALYrTIORITY                             Page  1 of 3
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Pak Rs Aillion)        (USS million)                 Z Total
X~~~~~~~~~~ Foreign   P3se
Let.al Foreign Total    Local Ffreign Total  E.change    Costs
s::r_: zzz:2::_ =_:ss=: :=:-= CZ!::   =_sss  =__::z=s
'A. SUISK1R
1. SU0KUR ( STEAM )                              14.0    43.2    57.1    9.8      2.6   3.4          76        3
Sub-Total SUKKUR                                    14.0    43,2    57V1    0.8      2.6   3.4          76        3
8. 6DDU
1. WDDU (STEAM)                                  30.1    92.6   122.7    1,8      5,5  7s3           75        6
2, GUDDU ( 6AS TURBINES)                         18,8    313    50.1    1.1       1.'   3.0          62        3
Sub-Total 6UDDU                                     49.0   123.'   172.8    2.9      7.3  10.2          72        9
C. NULTAN
1. HULTAN ( STEAM)                               21.8    61.3    83.1    1.3      3.6   4.9          74        4
_    --     ------   --- -- _____  ._   _   - ___   ----   -- -- - __--__ -__ _ -_
Sub-Total MULTAN                                    21.8    61.3    83.1    1.3      3.6   4.9          74        4
D. 0UETTA
1, QUETTA ( STEM I                               17.8    56.5    74.2    1.1      3.3   4.4          76        4
2. QUETTA ( GAS TURBINES )                       21.6    37.2    58.8    1.3      2.2   3.5          63        3
Sub-Total GUETTA                                    3n.3    93.7   133.1    2.3      5.6   7.9          70        7
E FAISALABAD
1. FAISALABAD ( STEAM )                          10.6    28.0    38.6    0.6      1.7   2.3          73        2
2. FAISALABAD ( GAS TURBINES )                   56.7   140.0   196.7    3.4      8.3  11.7          71       10
3. FAISALABAD ( COMBINED CYCLE CONVERSION )    191.9   300.9   492.9   11.4    17.8  29.2            61       26
Sub-Total FAISALADAD                               259,1   468.9   728.1   15.4    27,8  43.2           64       38
F. KOTRI
1  KOTRI ( 6AS TURBINES )                        8.0    19.9    27.9    0.5      1.2   1.7          71        1
2. KOTRI 4 COMBINED CYCLE CONVERSION )          189.0   301.2   490.2   11.2    17.9  29.1           61       26
Sub-Total KOTRI                                    196.9   321.1   518.0   11.7    19.0  30.7           62       27
G. SHAHDRA ( 6AS TURBINES )                          4.6    14.7    19.3    0.3      0.9   1.1          76        1
H. EN6INEERIN6 ND CONSULTANCY                        9.5    85.5    95.0    0.6      5.1   5.6          90        5
I. ADMINISTRATION                                   60.5        -    60.5    3.6       -   3.6           -        3
J. TRAINING                                          2.9    16.6    19.5    0.2      1.0   1.2          85        1
K. V£HICLES                                          6.8        -     6.8    0.4       -   0,4                    0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 664.5 1.228.9 1,893#3  39.4    72.8 112.2            65      100
Phisical Contingencies                             79.7   147,5   227.2    4.7      8.7  13.5          65       12
Price Continsencies                               136.2   220.3   356.5    8.1    13.1  21.1           62       19
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  8eo.3 16596.7 2,477.0  52.2    94.6 146.8            64      131
March 2a17s1 =05=== 3=====3                  ==== ===  ==_
March 2i 1987 10:539



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Breakdown of Summary Accounts
(Us Million)
Base Costs           Physical Contingencies       Price Contingrecies         Total Iadl. Cant.      PhFsical   Casts +
Cont. Plus   Price
Local                      Local                     Local                      Local                 Price Cont. Cant. an
For. (ExcI. Duties I      For. (Excl. Duties t       For. (Excl. Duties I       For. (Excl. bUties I       an Phsical   kwse
Exch. Tas) Taxes  Total Exch. Taxes) Taxes  Total Exch. Txes) Taxes  Totl Exch. Taxes) Taxes  Total    Cont.            Costs
=     ~==    _r=  == rrr =   ==== rrrwr r:r=r   =                          =ar  rrrw    e    === rer  rarr-   rr=sar
I.ZDETETCUITS
itIIUESTmf  o
A. C1VIL URKS                                           0.5   7.0      0.2  7.7   0.t   0,8       0.0  0.9   01    1.7       0.0  1.8   0.7   9.5       0.2  10.4         1.1      9.3
9. EmITu  AN SHME PARTS                                24.9   0,9      9.1 34.0   3.0   0.1       1.0  4.1   4.3   0.2       1.4  5.8  32.2   1.2    10.5 43.9            4.7     39.2
C. EBClUm                                               4.7   2.1      0,0  6.8   0.6   0.3       0.0  0.8   0.9   0.5       0.0  1.4   6.1   2.9       0.0  9.0          1.0      8.0
D. U5I1U                                                4.4   0.2      1.6  6.2   0.5   0.0       0.2  0.7   0.7   0.0       0.2  1.0   5.7   0.3       2.0  8.0          0.9      7.1
E. C IOVE NIlK TO CNDIED CYCLE (  f,LTY AID ERECTRE l )    27.0   3.1  8.1 38.2   3.2   0.4       1.0  4.6   5.1   0.7       1.6  7.3  35.3   4.2    10.6 50.1            5.4     44.7
F. FUEL  IULIN15 YS1EI                                  0.9   0.2      0.3  1.3   0.1   0.0       0.0  0.2   0.1   0.0       0.0  0.2   1.1   0.3       0.3  1.7          0.2      1.5
6. SUSTATIJU                                            4.4   0.6      1.3  6.3   0.5   0.1       0.2  0.8   0.8   0.1       0.2  1.2   5.7   0.9       1.7  9.2          0.9      7.3
H. lTlliP                                                 -   0.9        -0.9        -   0.1        -  0.1      -   0.2        -  0.2      -   1.2        -  1.2         0.1       1.1
1. NIURINS #A CUSiLTANC                                 5.1   0.6        -  5.6   0.6   0.1         -  0.7   1.0   0.1         -  1.1   6.6   0.8         -  7.4         0.8       6.6
J. AJINIIST3ATIO ( IIICL. VEIIICLES )                     -   3.*        -  3,6      -   0.4        -  0.4      -   0,9        -  0.9      -   4.9        -  4.9         0,5       4.4
KI. 13111                                               1.0   0.2        -  1.2   0.1   0.0         -  0.1   0.2   0.0         -  0.2   1.3   0.2         -  1.5          0.2      1.4
L. WOMIBES                                                -   0.4        -0.4        - 0.0          -  00       -   0*1        -01         -   0.5        -0.5            0.1      0.5
Total INUESIIEN  COSTS                                    72.8  19.8    19.6 112.2   8.7   2.4       2.3 13.5  13.1   4,6       3.5 21.1  94.6  26.8    25.4 146.8         15I7    131.1      a
Total                                                      72.   19.8    19.6 112.2   6.7   2.4       2.3 13.5  13.1   4.6       3.5 21.1  94.6  26.8    25.4 146.8         15.7    131.1
h 2 1015________--                -    ---                           -
Nareft 2. 1997 10t53 



-50-
PAKISTAN                                    ANltK 3.2
WATIR AND POWE  D8VELOPHENT ATIORn                             ia8t 3 of 3
POWFR I=I ElICIzEC YOV    PRJUJCT
Proiect CompOneats by Year
ToSl InW"                                olds InClI Cl       e    f
IPa b H   ie HUl)                         ((  31111.)
mm  17/113NM  39/909       vim2 T.u    am  W7AR Om  3/9017M  91/M  T
A. 3 3
Is 3U 1 STM)                                   *  9.0 2.7  13.3 18.6  7        77.7      -  0.5  1.t  0.3  1.1  0.5  4,6
- -- --- - - - -- - - -
Totl 3                                            -  t.0 2a.7 13.3 13.6  7.5   77.7         -  O.S  1t  0.8  1.1  0*.  4.6
3. _N
1. s1    STEM)                               6.2 56.2 53.1 31.4 10.5    -  157.4   0,4  3.3  3.1  1.9  0.6    -  9.3
2. _  U       BAB    lES)                      - 21.1 42.4    -    -    -    3.6         -  13   2.5    -    -    -  LS
SToal m                                         6.2 77.3  955 31.4 1O.S    -    0.?  0.4  4.6  57  1.   0.6    - 13.1
C. IILTS
1. SLTS l TM)                                  - 24.5  o.1  32.9 15.3    -  109.3        -  1.5  2.2  2.0  0.9    -  6.5
Si-Totl IELTS                                     - 24.5  o.1  32.9  15.3    -  10.t       -  1.5  .22  2.0  0.9    -  65.
--, NlETTA
1. 5 * 1 (NM)                                  - 17.4 26.4 2.2 13.3 10.3  100.5          -  1.0  1-  1.7  1.1  0.6  6.0
2.IUET  3 li6 1MRN1)                          - 2815 30.  16.4    -    -   75.4         -  1.7  1.8  1.0    -    -  4.5
W-total 5Th                                       - 45.9 56.9 44.5  18.3 10.3  176.0       -  2.7  3,4  2.6  1.1  0.6 10*4
E. FAISMAI
1. FAIA       I SEM)                         1.1 14.5 1*33 15*9    -    -   49.9   0.1  0.9  11  0.9    -    -  3.0
2. FAIUI    (S1 TUNINES)                    22.9 13.4 43.1 40.5    -    -  244         1,4  3.2  26  2.4    -    -14.5
3. F lAAU     I COIMM3CltUICOMMON)             - 1St 280.1 1646 50.1    -  649.7         -  9.2 U16   9a3  3.0         33.S
S-b-Tot.l FAISIN                               24*0 30W8 341.4 221*1 50.1    -  944.5   1.4 1832 20h2 I13I  3,0           36*0
it 1mm  I(      tIEIS})                        - 16.0 17.6  106    -           -   352   -  1,0  1.0  0.1    -    -  2.1
2, M1M  ( IUIIN   CTtE ClM11)                  - 154.9 276.0 165.1 50.1    -  6461       -  9*2 16.4  9.3  3.0    - 38F3
Sib-Tta OM                                        - 1709 m.*6 166.6 50.1    -  631.2          to0.  17.4  9.9  3,0    - 40*4
B. U    b(T  110 _    )                         2.3  5S8  3.5  6.0  2.4    -   25.0   0.1  043  0.5$  04  0.1              I 1.5
H. US I  *1  El_tIE                            11.5 30.3 32*4 20,3 22*2  73  125.0  07  1.3  1.9  1*2  1.3  0,5  7-4
is AI SMTIS                                     9.3 17.6 21.6 17*4 16*3    -   52*3   0,6  1.0  1#3  1.0  1.0    -  4*9
J. tAI00M                                         -  6.1  9*1  5.   5.2    -   25.9        -  0,4  0.5  0.3  0O3    -  1.5
Ks. WENROA                                        -  s,s    -    -    -    -    s.s        -  0.5    - -    -    -         0.5
…----                                          --------
Totl F2T     10h                                 53.4 703.3 929 510.2 23.9 2S.9 24770   3.2 41.7 54.  33,2 12.4  1.51
Heidi 2. 1937 10)53



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Organization  Chart and Staffing  Plan -_Plant Improvenent Group
(Cone CYCI   (Comb hft( CMcsh)  (l                                        C C7+In                                            1 1
Director    De"u DhO
pDeson OCr     (Mntlo)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ac, C C  .s CcrC an   DV Dtr    DyDh                                              DV NO    Dy W            I
ojcDietoO         CCRojet Dre'w                                    C.                              (Mainteac         x   lComL otnl P-lrr) 
l                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~                         ~           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~DwDevorenpm D-e               t
Senijor Eng' Senior Eng Sernor EntI Sord Eng' Admnin' Acct- Seno Eng- Senlor Ernt Sonlor Eng SR EN6' A4nin- ACstP R.E. 200 M\^  - E.  -.  -'   R -E. Sf' tFD t.-I PE. Sukikurs  tE. Sueohd.E  9  RI, VtW
VRbC)    (Mwh)    Ol&C)      (CM)3                   ¢ElC)    pAch)    A4C)   fCihU)                 STP54PS  SltDll 
seniorEr              SenrEn SonlorEErg    Senio        rEEnq  Seniorog WwErv   Seio Eft  E
JR'ENS    JR ENS    JR ENG°    JR ENG'               JRNENS    JR-ENS   JR ENG   JR ENG'                  SR ENG' SR ENG' J E   J E  JR ENG6 JR ENGS   JRKENS      JRfN       JR:ENG      JR'ENG
(EbCel    oMech)    9kCI    [Ch/il                   [Elnc)   [Mechl   PSC)    (CMa)                      Eloe   Megch  04c) (Mc)
I       I
JQENG JR:ENG
Schedule tor SW Placment                                                                             GM-Gene6oi Manager
'Exstinglln Position                                                                                 CE-Chist Erner
Jonuary 34. 1987                                                                                     JE-Junjor Eniner
'Febunor 28. 1987                                                                                    CC-Combined Cycle
'March 31. 1987                                                                                      Elec-Ekechtcd
'May 30. 4987                                                                                        Mech-Mechonied
'Jne 30. 1987                                                                                       l&cC-instrumentalon and Contol
Wodd Si* -34078      !-



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
4985                     1986                     4967                  .966                         1969                     990
2 2         3     4      1     2     3     4     1      2    3       3                      4        1     2     3     4      4     2     3     4
i COtNIJLTAM S VICES                       _
Lo? Recruyiment
Design, Pocueme  of Equipment & Moterias                                               _ L  R
Rehabwtation
3. MIUTAN
Design, Pocurement of Equipet & Materials                                                               -            -     -     -                         _
Rehaboktlon
4. SH4AHDRA
Design. Procurneret ot Equment & Materials                                                                     -    -            -_
RehobMkian
. IJIETI -I A_
Design, Procuremen of Equipment & Materas                                                                     -      -_                  -_
IRehobwkdaton                                                           l_ _I
6 KOTRI
Design. Procurement of Equient & Mcterils                                                               -                  -
Rehdbrnawin
7 FAISALADA
Design. Procurement of Equirment & Mc tl _
RehablUtation
SUJKKUR
Design, Procurement of Equipment & Materials--                                                                                    -
RehBatbian
9 CONVERS?CN' TO COIASJND
CYCtE OPERATION                                                                                                                                                                                              >
Repwarion of dding Documents 
rAs
Bidding Evaiuation and Aword
OI  utn Waer Systen Modftionm                                                                                  -                  -           -      -
and C4 Works
Equiment Manuctre & Supply                                                                                                 -            m     -            _
ntllCation & Comission                                                                                                                  -     _                      
*---n-...nOCuIOe Period                                                                                                                                                 World  n-30694



-53-
Annex 3.5
PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT. PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year        --Disbursements, US$ Million--
and Semester             In Semester         Cumulative           Cumulative Z
1988
December 31, 1987              5                  5                   7.14
June 30, 1988                  1                  6                   8.57
1989
December 31, 1988             10                 16                  22.86
June 30, 1989                 14                 30                  42.86
1990
December 31, 1989             15                 45                  64.29
June 30, 1990                 12                 57                  81.43
1991
December 31, 1990              7                 64                  91.43
June 30, 1991                  5                 69                  98.57
1992
December 31, 1991              1                 70                 100.00



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(RUPEES MILLION)
...................................................................... 
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
.... .......... .............................
(AS OF JUNE 30th)
.     ......... ACTUAL.............    (Unaud.) ........ .........FORECAST.---------------------
ASSETS                           FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90    FM91    FY92    FY93
FIXED ASSETS
............
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION       19265   20966   26100   29333   34288   43531   51708  62004   75175   91782  111625  134366  158375
LESS:DEPRECIATION RESERVE        4133    4841    5650    6697    7817   9171   10804   12794   15195   18116   21676   25981   31104
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION   15132   16125   20450   22636   26471   34360  40904  49210   59981   73666  89949  108385  127271
WORK IN PROGRESS                 5027    7500   6475    8095   10181   10062   12783   16090   20593   25954   30963   35441   37320
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS              20159   23625   26925   30731   36652   44422   53687  65300  80574   99619  120912  143826  164591
CURRENT ASSETS
..............
CASH                              315     429    611      501      433     504    819      856    1161    1500    1185    2198    2653
;NVEATORIES                      1239    1550    1649    1779    1895    2092    2585    3100   3759    4589    5581    6718    7919
ACCOUNTS RECEJVABLE               93R    ItR7     AsI   17SW    1770    2270    2505    2981    4335    5365    6311    7335    8521
WATER WING ACCOUNTS               191     242     251      212     304     311     327    343      360     378     397     417    438
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS              531     565     865     955    1459      847    940    1044    1158    1286    1427    1584    1759
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             3204    3968    4811    5199    5861    6024    7176    8323   10173   13117   15501   18252   21289
TOTAL ASSETS                    23363   27593   31736   35930   42513   50446   60863   73623  91346  112737  136413  162079  185880
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
.......................I
EQUITY
GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT            2147    2218    2318    2409    2437    2437    2437   2437    2437    2437    2437    2437    2437
GOVERNNENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION   2766    277     277     2777    2901    3301    3301    3301    3301    3301    3301    3301    3301
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION              151     650    1035    1578    2027    2750    3500    4324    5227    6217    7303    8494    9799
RETAINED EARNINGS                4660    6500    8664   10543   11632   13761   16238   19220  25390   32646   40813   48928   56737
TOTAL EQUITY                    9724   12145   14794   17307   18997   22249   2547?  29282  36354   44601   53854   63159   72274
LONG TERM DEBT                  11965   13295   14475   15979   20349   24740   32046  40580   49937  61833   74998   89766  102595
CONSUMER DEPOSITS                 189     211     236      275     299     299    344      395     455     523    601      692      795
INTEREST ACCRUED                  ...    784      867     951    1034    1119    1202    1285    1368    1451    1534    1617    1700
CURRENT LIABILITIES              1485    1158    1364    1418    1834    2039    1794    2081    3232    4329    5425    6845    8515
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES   23363   27593   31736  35930   42513   50446  60863   73623   91346  112737  136413  162079  185879
_ ======      - _=====Z= ====_====  3333333   333=333--  =3=3=3333==3=
DEBT AS X OF DEBT+EQUITY           55      52      49       48      52      53      56      58      58      58      58       59      59
EQUITY AS X OF DEBT+EQUITY         45      48      51      52       48      47      44      42      42      42      42      41       41



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFIENCY IMPROVEMEN PROJECT
(RUPEES MILLION)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENTS
(YEAR ENDING JUNE 30th)
.........ACTUAL .......               cLugm.) ..........FORECAST.-----------
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87'  FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   rf92   FY93
KWh GENERATED (MILLIONS)       13206  14768  16477  ¶8052  18780  21055  24329  25891   28403  31398  34672  37976  41614
KWh SOLD (MILLIONS)             9068  1028   11593  12762  13756  15504  18247  19936  21870  24176  2669   29242  32043
KWh SOLD/Kdh GENERATEDMZ          69      70     710     71      73      74      75     77      77      77      77      717    77
AVE. REVENUE/KWh SOLW(PAISA)   50.84   56.75   61.93   62.74   63.83   74.40  74.60  81.39  108.44  121.62  129.66  137.70  146.07
OPERATING REVENUE (PR MILLION)
SALES OF ELECTRICITY            4245   5322   6146   6785   7280   892   10565  13049  18953  22941  26991  30721  35196
FUEL SURCHARGE                   365    516   1034   1222   1500   2609   3048   3177   4764   6461   7626   9546  11609
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES         167    173    181    207    212    226    302    332    365    402    442    486    535
... .     . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . .
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES        4777   6011   73AI   $P14   R997  11761  13915  16559  24082  29804  35059  40753  47340
OPERATING EXPENSES(PR MILLION)
PURCHASE OF POWER ....  .. ..   . ..491    388
FUEL COST                        494   1132   1541   1892   2406   3200   4096   4413   6616   8974  10591  13258  16123
MAINTENANCE                      336    514    545    641    708    769    982   1302   1579   1927   2344   282    3326
OPERATION & ADMINISTRATION       767    952   1178   1546   175    2096   2370   2844   3413   4095   4914   5897   7077
DEPRECIATION                     621    708    819    990   1110   1363   1633   1990   2401   2922   3560   4305   5123                     L
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES        2218   3306   4083   5069   6473   7816   9081  10549  14008  17919  21409  26282  31649
NET OPERATING INCOME            2559   270    3278   3145   2519   3945   4834   6010  10074  11886  13650  14471  15691
OTHER INCOME                     109      97    127    235    210    206    165    182    200    220    242    266    292
....      ...     .   z; --------------~;;..............i~                             14--     ---
NET INCOME AVAILABLE FOR FIXED  2668   2802   345      3380   2729   4151   499 6191   10273  12105  139    1737  15983
CHARGES
FIXED CHARGS
INTEREST                         985   1071   1264   1481   1897   2391   3009   3832   4899   5864   6969   8078   9772
LESS:INTEREST CHARGED CONSTN.    207    124      93      98    273    3819   508    642    815   1035   1265   1476   1617
.~~~~~1..........i;.........  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...
INTEREST CHARGED OPERATIONS      778    947   117    1383   1624   202   2501   3190   4083   4829  !5704   6602   8154
INCOME                          189    1855   2234   1997'  1105   2149   2498   3002   6190   7276   8187   8134   782
LESS:PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT        20      20     20      20      20      20      20     20      20      20      20      20     20
NET PROFIT                      1870   1835   2214   1977   1085... 212'9   2478.. 2982 "6'1'70 .. 72-5,6.. 816'7'. 8,114, "7'8'09
RATE OF RETURN ON AVERACE NET
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERASiON
HISTORICALLY VALUED    18.30   17.31   17.92   14.60   10.26   12.97   12.85   13.34   18.45   17.79   16.69   14.59   13.32
REVALUED (PROFORMA)    10.40   9.50   10.00   8.20   4.00    5.30   5.22   6.13    8.96   8.79   9.42   8.99   8.75



PAKISTAN
WATER AID POER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLAT EFFIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(RUPEES MILLION)
...............................
FORECAST SOURCES AID APPLICXTION OF FUNDS STATEENITS
................................................................
(YEAR ENDING JUNE 30th)
ACTUAL (Unaud.) ..................FORECAST ......................
SSRCES OF FUlIDS                                                 FY85   FY86   FY87   fY88   FY89   FY0    FY91   FY92             3
INTEM L CASN GENERATION
........................
NET INCOh  FOR FIXED CUARGES                                     2729   4151    4999   6191   10273  12105  13891   14737   1S3
DEPRECIATION                                                     1110    1363    1633    1990   2401    2922   3560   4305    5123
.......    ........... .......    .......... .......    ........... .......    ........... ....... ...... .......... .. ...............
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                                   3839    5514   6632    8181   12674   15027  17451   19041   21106
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS                                             449     723     750    823    903    990    1086    1191    1305
SECURITY DEPOSITS                                                  24       0      45      52      59      68      78      90     104
BORROWINS
..........
RUPEE LOANS                                                      2115    2689   3046   4984   3645    4663   5250   8399   4416
FOREIGN LOANS                                                    2854    2765    5100   4458   6347   7965   9052    7926   10307
PROPOSED IBRD LORN                                                                        101    405    455    202         17
TOTAL BOROWINOGS                                                 4969    5454   8146    9543   10397  13088  14504  16342   14723
.... ............ .*....................  .......  ...........  .......  .......  ...........  .......  ...........  .......
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS.                                          9281   11691   15573   18599  24033  29174  33119  36665   37238
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
..................... >
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
....................
PROPOSED PROJECT                                                                   53    704    925    560    209          26
OtHER CONSTRUCTION                                               6768   8739   10337   12257  15934  20373  23378   25717  24270
....... ........ ..... ......... ..... ......... ......    ..... .... ....... ......... ..... ......... ............ ............ ...
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION PROtAN                                        6768   8739   10390   12961   16859  20933   23587   25743   24270
DEBT SERVICE
............
INTEREST                                                         1897   2391    3009   3832   4899   5864   6969   8078    9772
LESS:INTEREST ACCRUED                                              83      85      83      83      83      83      83      83      83
AMORTIZATION                                                      599    668    840    1009    1040   1192    1339    1574    1894
,.......... .......    ........... .......    ........... .......    ........... .......    ........... ... .................. ... ....... ...
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                               2413   2974   3766   4758    5856   6973   a225    9569   11582
PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT                                              20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20
VARIATION IN WORKING CAPITAL
............................
CASH INCREASE                                                     -68      71     315      37    305    339    285    413         455
OTHER THAN CASH INCREASE                                          149    -113   1082    824       994    909    1002    919       910
.......................... ..............  ........... .... .... ....... ....... .......  ......... ..... ........... .......
MET INCREASE                                                      81     -42    1397    860    1298   1248    1287   1332    1365
......ii ......;. ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ..... ..w
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                                      9282   11691   15573   18599  24033  29174  33119  36665   37238
TIMES DEBT SERVICE COVERED BY                                                                                                                         4
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                                         1.59    1.85    1.76    1.72    2.16    2.16    2.12    1.99    1.82
SELF FINANCING RATIO-3 Yr. AVE.                                    37      48      42      40      40      40      40      40      40



ANNEX 4.4
-57-                          Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
INCOME STATEMENT
Sale of Electricity
The forecast sale of electricity is based on projected plant
expansion and takes into account a reduction in system losses. Increase in
sales is forecast at an average annual rate of about 10% through FY95.
Average Revenue per kWh Sold
The average revenue per kWh sold reflects the fuel adjustment
surcharge, as well as tariff increases necessary to meet the 40% Internal
Cash Generation Covenant.
Other Operating Revenue
Other operating revenue consists principally of miscellaneous
services such as transfer/replacement of meters, application fees,
reconnection of service, etc. These revenues are shown to increase by 10%
per year based on the increase in the number of consumers.
.Fuel Cost
The increase in fuel rates has been assumed as under:
(a) Raw gas commodity charges - 10% per annum
(b) Purified gas commodity charges - 10% per annum
(c) High Speed Diesel - constant up to 1988, and 5% increase afterwards
(d) Furnace Oil - 5%
(e) Coal (Quetta) - 5%
(f) Coal (Lakhra) - 7%
Maintenance Expense
Maintenance expense is related to plant in service and is forecast at
1.9% of gross fixed assets in operation in PY87 and 2.1% thereafter, taking
into account past experience and the increasing proportion of thermal plant
in the system.



-58-
ANNEX 4.4
Page 2 of 3
Operation and Administration Expense
Except for FY88, operation and administration expense is forecast to
increase by 20Z annually, taking into account system expansion, inflation and
also past experience. An increase of 25X is taken for FY88 to reflect an
expected general wage increase.
Depreciation
WAPDA is applying a composite rate of depreciation of 3.5%. This
rate is realistic and has been used in the forecasts.
Other Income
Other income includes interest, sale of scrap and rental of office
space, and is shown to increase by 10Z annually.
Payment to Government
WAPDA has been remitting Rs 20 million annually to Government for
assets earlier transferred to WAPDA. Forecasts show this payment continuing.
BALANCE SHEET
Cash
Cash balances are projected on the basis of about six weeks' cash
operating expense.
Inventories
Inventories are forecast at 5Z of gross fixed assets in operation.
Accounts Receivables
WAPDA's accounts receivables are forecast to be equivalent of two
months' billings.
Othe Current Assets
Other current assets include miscellaneous receivables, advances and
clearing accounts. Forecasts assume a 5% annual increase.



-59-
ANNEX 4.4
Page 3 of 3
Current Liabilities
Current liabilities include accounts payable, deposits for works to
be carried out for other agencies, contractor deposits, duties payable and
accrued salaries. Based on past experience, current liabilities are forecast
at between 25% and 40% of current assets.
Security Deposits
Security deposits are forecast to increase at 15% per annum.
Capital Contributions
Consumers' capital contribution assumed to increased by 10% annually.



PAKISTAN
lATER AND POWlER DEVELOPNENT AUTHORITY
POWlER PLANT EFFICIENCY INPROVENEMT PROJECT
INVESTMET PROGAM  - FY86 TO FY95  1/
(RUPEES MILLION)
Estimated          Expernditures
Date   Totat Project Costs   Upto July 1985        FY86  FY87   FY88  FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95
Of    -- - - - - - - - -   -- - - - - - - - -     -- -   - -     -- -   - -    -- -   - -    -- -   - -    -- -   - -
Project         ~Commissfion LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL
Generation
manglauni Ts T& a(200NWi)                 ...     ...    ---    ...8 ...- ....-
Quetta Ga  Turine  (35 NW)               ..        .      .      .-    ..     .*1                                 .      .       .     .
Tarbeta Units 9 &10(350NWi)                                            ... ----       .      74     28    ----                          -
Guddu Unit 4 (210 W)                             1324    716   2040    468    620   1088    170D    72    ..
Kot Addu Units 1 to 4 (400 NW)      Jan. 1987   1305   1410   2715      71    162    233   1531    633    300     18                          ...    ...
Guddu Coumbined Cycle (450 NW)      Jan. 1988   2116   2343   4459    302    899   1201    774   1273    700    511     --     *.       .
Jamshoro Uonit 1 (250 NW)           Oct. 1989   1870   1660   3530      22      0     22    47    270   1200   1500    491    - ...     .     .. 
Qmmf$ Pvydets (3/10 OW)             Jun~. 1989    42      11    53    ---     ..    ---   ---0                           .      .-     .
Dfeset Sets at Gitgit (3NWi)        Jun.m1990     21       9     30    -              -       1     14 _ 5         6      4    .---   -..
Gudcb Comb. Turb. 7 & 8 (200 NW)   Dec. 1990    850   1000   1850                           ----..  .  ---    50    200   1200    400  .
"to lUnfts 9 &10(2000Wi)            Dec. 1989    664    72   1390       -     -       *      10   145    335    400    400    100       -
Kot Addua Units 5 to 8 (400 NW)     Feb. 1989   1700   1900  3600    ---      --    ..      ...   250    800   1100   1000    450   -...        .    ..          
Kot AdduE Coam. Cycle (200 NW)      Mar. 1990   1392   1408   2800    --                    ......295    700    950    700    155   .---       .     ..      
Jomshoro Units 2 8 3 (420 NW)       Nov. 1990   3500   2500   6000    --       -    -        -*    182    550    750   1750   2000    768 5      
Tarbeta unftall - 14 (I72NW1)       Jan. 1992   6035   4922  10957    188      33    221    402   1089   1500   1650   2000   2250   1200   645
Nuttan units I to 3 (630 NW)        Oct. 1991   4697   3871   8568      25      0     25    76    140    200    500   2000   3000   2000    627    ---   --- 
Chashma Low Head Nydet (256 NW)    Dec. 1990   278    1680   4463             --. -  - --..   5     15    50    200   1200   2500    593    ---
Jamshoro Unit 4(210MNW)             Dec. 1991   1750   1250   3000    --                    -        .50    400    800   1500    250
Lakhra Cost (300 NW)PCIX1                         48      93    141      8      0      8      6      9     28     40     50    ---    ..      : 
Jimeh Low feadNydetL(122NWi)        Dec. 1991   2440   1200   3640    --       ~---   ---                  50    100    300    500    800   1400    490     --
Lakh~ra Coal Unit 1 (250 Wi)        Nar. 1994   3500   3000   6500            .       ..    ...    ---   ..       --.-    ..-.    50    250    500   2000   3000
Lakhre Coot Unit 2 (250 NW)         Dec. 1994   2700   2300   500      ...      -      .        -   ...   ---   ...    ---    50    200    400   1300   2400
lIported Coal Unit 1(400 NW)        Ofec  1993   4600   3400   8000.-                 .             18    50    100    400    600   1500   2000   2500    832
Jamsaror Unft 5 (300 MW)            Jut. 1992   2500   2000   4500      -      .            --     ...   ...   -.    250    500   1500   1750    500        --
Jismhoro Units 6  7(2*300NWi)       Dec. 1992   5500   4500  10000      -     .      ---    ---    ...    ..    100   400    800   2000   2500   3200   1000
Tarbeta Units 15 -17 (1200 NW)    Dec. 1994   5000   4000   9000    ---             ---    ---~.          . ...    --- --   ¶1)  1000   1500  '100   3500
Low Read Nydet III (11OMNW)         Dec. 1992   4600   2400   7000    ...            -*       ~         ~         50    150    300   1800   3600   1100     --
Ioported Coal Unit 2 (400 NW)       De.19-00 350 80                            .      .     ..      .      ..    ..     .      100   1000   1500   2100   3000
P & tof Malor  "Lad                              307    109   416       55     10    65      10     13     28     50     70     8       0
&of Low NeeadHydels -PC 11                     51     34     85   .---     ..                ---                      10.25         50o    --
Imported Coot unit 3 (400 NW)       Mar. 1996   5300   3700   9000    ---    . .      .      .      .      ...   ...    ...    ...    100    500   1500   2500
Iqiorted Coat Units 4 & 5 (2*400 NWJ)Har. 1997  11300   7900  19200    ...   .---    . .-   ...   ... -   ---                  ---.  500   1250   1700   2300
Chitrat Phase if                                   15     3      18    10       0     10      2      2      4                                 ...    .....~.
Thermat Rehabilitation              Dec. 1989      0                    --           --     ---   280    800   1600    177    ---       -      -      -      :
Duki Coot PC 1I                                    3      13    16   ...             ...    16   ...    .. ...    ...    ...    ...           --     ..      -
Sub~totat Generation                           8293  63558 146471   1149   1724   2873   3150   4760   7370   9879  12952  14760  16861  18422  18490  18532         I'
0.



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
INESTMENT PROGRAM - FY86 TO FY95
Estimated          Expenditures
Date   Total Project Costs   Upto July 1985        FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94  FY95
Of   -------- --  --- --                                         ....   .... --    ---   ---  ---    ---          ....
Project               Camission LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL  TOTAL
......     .     .      ......   -----    .    ........... ................................... ........................---..
Transmission
............
2nd Tarbeta-Faisatabad (500 kV)                  689   379   1068   581    325    906    169        57      -    ---    ---    -        --
Falsalabed-Iultan-Karachi (500-kV)    1986-87   2224   1809  4033   1122    742   1864   1242   731    196    ---
Hardan-Peshawar (220-kV)              1987-88    188    123    311       1      0      1      4    259     47    ---    ...    ..        ... . 
Faisalabad-Sahiwal (220-kV)           1987-88    216    154   370       42      0     42     18     16     50    20      44    --    --       --
Dadu-Khuzdar (220-kV)                 1987-88    399    217    616       3   - 0       3      0    221    300     92       0    ---           ..-.-  - -    -. 
2nd Guddu-Sibi-Ouetta (220-kV)        1989/90    630    410   1040   -.-    ---    ---   *.-    ---   1OO    300    500    140    *--
3rd 500-kV Tarbela                               815    585   1400    --    --        --    ---     79    150    400    600    171    ---    ...    ..
Load Despetch Center-Nodemization                399    347    746      11      5     16     12    58    175    400      85      0    -.-.
tudwele-Daudkhel (220/500-kV)         1990-91    575    465   1040    ---   --    -..-   -.-.-    I1    Inn    1%f    250   350    139    ---    --          -
Lahore-Jamhoro (500SkV)               1990-91   2857   2118  4975    ---    -.    -.         12    597    750    900   1050   1200    466   -.-    ..- .     -
Transmission Li,es - Low HNad Hydels  1991-93    150    100    250                                                       ..- ---    --    -  -  --  *-  -  25  75    125  25
Kot Addu-Lorala  (220-kV)             1994-95    400    300    700      -      --    --      -      -      -      -      --    ---    100    200    300    100
3rd Multan-Guddu (500-kV)             1994-95   1000    700   1700    ---            - -    ---       -    --    ---    --    ---       50    250    500    750
2nd Ludwela-Gatti (500-kV)            1994-95    260    170   430    ---  - -     --             - -      ---    ---   ---  -   ---            25    100    250
Kalabagh-Ch_sma-ultan (500-kV)                  1280    770   2050        -    - -    -      --    --    --.  -.--    ---    100   300    600   800    250
2nd Tarbela-Lahore (500-kY)           1995-96   1000    700   1700    - -                          ..- --    --    -.-   ---  --    ---  -  ---    50    250    500StO
Klalabagh-Daudkhel (500-kV)           1994-95      15     10    25       -    --    -   - ---    --    ---          - - ---    -       ---     - .     5    .20 
Transmission Lines - Inp. Coal (500-  1993-94    850    650   1500    -.- --  ---    ---  ---   .-   ---    ---    100   250   400   600    150
Kalbegh-Kohat (220-kV)                1994-95    120     80    200    - -      --    - -     -     -..    ..      ..    .. - -    ...    .    ...     60    130
Kalabegh-DaudkheL (220-kV)                        45     30      75    ---                                                                            25     50
Subtotal Transmission                          14112  10117  24229   1760   1072   2832   1457   2069   1868   2442   2529   2086   1380   1650   2665   2200
Su-Transmission and Grid Stations               16495   8688  25183    515   768   1283   1371   1574   1655   2000   2200   2600   2800   3000   3200   35W
Distribution                                    14642   1813  16455      0      0      0    617    988   1150   1350   1550   1750   1950   2150   2350   2600
Rural Electrification                           14220   1730  15950   739    218    957   674   1264   1350   1925   2580   3380   3820         0      0      0
Loss Reduction & Load  anagement                1760    440    200       0      0      0      0      0    100    150    200    250   300    350    400   450
Kalabegh Dam Project - PCII                       193     64    257      0      0      0    100    157      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0
Diesel Sets                                        55      0     55      0      0      0     20    35       0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0
Total Investments with I.D.C                   144390  86410 230800  4163   3782   7945   7389  10847  13493  17746  22011  24826  27111  25572  27105  27282
Less: Interest During Construction                                                          358    572    682    887   1078   1239   1368   1302   1328   1364   
Total Investments without ID.C               144390  86410 230800  4163   3782   7945   6i99  10275  12811  16859  20933  23537  25743  24270  25777  25918         m t
0 .



-62-
Annex 4.6
Page I of 5
PAKIT1?AN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Status and Plans for Strengthening Financial and Commercial
Operations under the WAPDA/Financial and Commercial Operations under the
WAPDAiUSAID Power Distribution Project
FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING
1.      In carrying out financial institutional improvements under the Power
Distribution Project, the improvement objectives have been grouped into seven
broad areas:
(a) Confirmation of assets and liabilities to determine actual current
values, and correct, as required, any recorded amounts in the
accounting records and financial statements.
(b) Revaluation of capital (fixed) assets to determine present value and
development of functional depreciation rates for the major classes of
assets.
(c) Determination of cost of service for the various classes of customers
and design of rates and tariffs based on these costs.
(d) Modernization of present manual systems and procedures for near term
improvements in the accuracy, timeliness and efficiency of financial
operations and subsequent conversions to computer based systems.
(e) Reorganization of financial operations to improve overall efficiency,
management control and responsiveness to financial information
requirements.
(f) Upgrade the qualifications and capabilities of financial personnel at
all levels.
(g) Upgrade and expand WAPDA's internal audit organization, policies,
procedures and staff capabilities.



-63-
Annex 4.6
Page 2 of 5
Work Accomplished as of October 1986
2.      The confirmation of inventory valuations has been completed and
documented in a final report.
3.      The appraisal of WAPDA's current assets has been completed and
documented. The Authority has appointed a high level committee to take
follow up action. The appraisal of WAPDA's current liabilities has been
completed, with the report currently undergoing final editing.
4.      A Fixed Asset Accounting Manual that will provide the basis for
future fixed assets accounting procedures has been developed and documented.
5.      WAPDA's fixed distribution assets in the Samanabad Pilot Test
Division have been verified and documented in a draft report. The work plan
for verification of fixed assets in all AEBs (Area Electricity Board) has
been developed, documented and is currently under review.
6.      A preliminary revaluation of WAPDA's fixed assets has been completed
and documented.
7.      WAPDA's management information requirements have been determined and
documented. Improved financial and managerial reports have been developed
arii designed. Computerized accounting and reporting systems for divisions
and ABBs have been designed and are being programmed.
8.      A cost of service and rate study has been completed.  Its results and
recommendations have been utilized in developing WAPDA's tariff proposals to
GOP.
9.      A study of WAPDA's cash management procedures and operations has been
completed and final report issued. The Director Banking has received
training at American Electric Power Co. under the Sister Utility Exchange
Program.
10.     A proposal for reorganization of h;APDA's financial operations has
been developed, documented and has been presented to the Authority. A joint
PTAT/IAPDA implementation team has been created to plan and carry out a
divisional reorganization pilot operation in two selected divisions.
Staffing requirements have been determined and procedure development and
documentation is well underway.
11.     WAPDAs internal auditing capabilities have been assessed.  The terms
of reference for a consultancy to upgrade and expand the internal audit
capabilities have been developed and approved. Two Senior Audit Officers
have been trained at American Electric Power Co. under the Sister Utility
Bxcange Program.



-64-
Annex 4.6
Page 3 of 5
12.     Project financial personnel consisting of WAPDA assigned personnel
and implementation staff are being trained via the Sister utility Exchange
Program (SUE). Nine (9) WAPDA officers have been received training at
American Electric Power (AEP) in the USA, plus another five (5) WAPDA
financial officers have been selected for this scheduled training.
13.     Twenty four (24) WAPDA financial officers have completed a Utility
Financial Management Course at Georgetown University, followed by on-the-job
training at TVA.
Future Programs of Work
14.     The following major programs will be completed during future periods
to achieve the financial objectives of the project:
(a) confirm current liabilities;
(b) verify and revalue capital (fixed) assets;
(c) develop depreciation rates;
(d) upgrade manual financial accounting systems and assist in development
of computer-based systems;
(e) upgrade construction accounting;
(f) revise financial organization and improve staff capabilities;
(g) develop cost of service, determine rate of return and design rates;
(h) upgrade and expand internal auditing capabilities; and
(i) assist in the development of training programs for financial officers
and clerical staff.
Recommendation
15.     That WAPDA establish a Rates and Tariffs Directorate staffed with
well-qualified accountants and engineers to perform load research, carry out
cost of service studies and design rates utilizing modern methods and
techniques.



-65-                          Annex 4.6
Page 4 of 5
CUSTOMER SERVICES
16.     Customer Services (Commercial) activities are divided into six major
groups with the combined objectives of increasing operating efficiency and
improving customer relations:
(a) enhancing WAPDA's Commercial Procedures utilizing a high level of
computerization;
(b) improving WAPDA's Energy Surveillance Program;
(c) revising Security Deposit policies;
(d) design of a Customer Service Center;
(e) development of a Customer Energy Conservation/Load Management
information program; and
(f)  development of a Customer Service function at Division, AEB, and
Headquarters level.
Work Accomplished as of October 1986 and Present Activities
17.     The overall concept of the enhanced commercial procedures has been
prepared. A manual of specific tasks is currently under preparation. The
proposed customer master record and customer applications sections are
undergoing final revisions in preparation for submission to WAPDA's Computer
Center for programming.
18.     A sample computer program was developed in conjunction with WAPDA's
Computer Center to monitor customer billing relating to theft of energy
(Energy Surveillance). Energy Surveillance monitoring, investigative
techniques, and revenue recovery now being practiced in Headquarters and all
AEBs has been studied. A review of division practice is underway.
19.     A security deposit proposal designed to secure customer accounts for
two months' revenues has been prepared and sent to Authority for approval.
20.     The conceptual design of both a division and a subdivision Customer
Service Center has been completed. Coordination with an architect to produce
construction drawings has commenced. Discussions have been held with WAPDA
officials concerning their commitment to construct a division and a
subdivision Customer Service Center in both Sheikhupura and Muridke.
21.     A proposal to implement Energy Conservation and Load Management Cells
in VAPDA's AEBs has been submitted. Five WAPDA Engineers have been selected
and are in training. They will staff the headquarters component of the Cell.



-66-                         Annex 4.6
Page 5 of 5
22.     The plans for the model division Customer Service Section were
formulated in concert with the development of the enhanced commercial
procedures and the conceptual design of the Customer Service Centers.
Organization charts, staffing recommendations and position descriptions have
been prepared. Meetings have been held with personnel from the division
through headquarters to plan for implementation.
Future Program of Work
23.     Install PC Computers in the two model divisions.  Complete the
commercial procedures task manuals and begin the pilot test in the
Sheikhupura and Muridke Divisions. Develop training modules in preparation
for VAPDA-wide implementation.
24.     Advise in the preparation of comprehensive Energy Surveillance
program, including computer exception reports.
25.     Implementation of revised security deposit proposal.
26.     Assist in coordinating the acquisition of land, the final design, and
the start of construction for the model Customer Service Centers.
27.     Provide additional training for the selected Energy Conservation/Load
Management Engineers. Following placement of the engineers in their
positions in WAPDA headquarters begin a pilot implementation in one AEB.
Assist in WAPDA-wide implementation.
28.     Assist in the planning, training and implementation of a Customer
Service function in the Divisions, AEBs, and Headquarters.



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Actual and Projected Power Demand and Energy Sales
(WAPDA System)
inmstaled capacity   (15)   2,685    3,254    3,254    3.954,   3,954    4,339    4.612    5,412    5.412    6,178    8.266    8.266    9.416    9.416
peak Demnad           (NV)   2,076    2.473    2.846    3,163    3.437    3,791    4,121    4.517    4.955    5.436    5.963    6.541    7,176    7,672
Energy Generated     (Gcub)
flydel                    8.718    9.046    9,526   11,367   11.028   13.475   15,106   15,290   15,855   16.187   16,836   18.336   19,136   19,M
Thermal C. import)        3,406    4.160    5,242    5,110    6,224    5.305    6.121    8,220   10.319   IL2.58   A3L22j   14&h19   16.591   1L2Z.
TOTAL CUMATION (Glib) 12,124   13.206   14,768   16.477   IS,052   18.700   21,227    23,510  26.174   28,769   30.628   33.329   35.727   37.171
Energy sales         (Glib)
Doestic                   1,564    1,858    2.394    2.866    3.470    3,687    4.438       4.970   5.567    6,235    6.983    7.821    8,760    9.811
Coaneecial                  389        445     574      634      739      796       868       946   1,031    1,124    1.225    1.335    1.455    1.581
Industrial                3.154    3.482    3.974    4.417    4.708    5,061    5.516       6.013   6,554    7.144    7.787    8.488    9.252   10.086
Agricultural              2,057    2,125    2.357    2.546    2.663    2.783    2.950       3.127   3.314    3,513    3.724    3,968    4.165    4.436
Peblici Lighting              so       58       75       76       a8       93       102       119     130      136      147      173       167      218
Bulk Supply                  900    1.056      872    1,002    1,050    1,092    1.206      1,332   1.470    1,624    1.793    1.980    2,187    2.415
Tract ion                     6                 42                44~  ..4          48i      54.. 7    ..2               62       65AI      69I    ..L
TOM~n Sams             8$160    9.068  10.288   11,593   12,762   13.756   15.708   17,973   20,154   22,152   28,584   25.663  2V.510   28.622



ANNEX 5.2
-68-                         Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Rate of Return on Project
Costs
1.      Capital Cost:  Investment costs for the project, amounting to about
US$147 million, are incurred as follows:
Year         Base Cost 1/        Base Cost (Constant 1986 Prices) 1/
(Rs million)         Total         Local       Foreign
FY87           45.9               44.6          12.7          31.9
FY88          575.8              519.7         120.4         399.3
FY89          765.6              634.9         121.1         513.8
FY90          467.2              356.4         53.7          302.7
FY91          172.0              121.3           5.3         116.0
FY92           21.7               14.5           1.7          12.8
2,048.2           1,691.7         314.9        1,376.5
2.      Local Costs were expressed in their equivalent border pricing using
the following conversion factors: Material - 1.1; Skilled Labor - 1.06; and
Unskilled labor - 0.63.
3.      Annual Operating and Maintenance Costs were estimated at 5% of
capital costs and were expressed in equivalent border prices using the
standard conversion factors.
4.      Increment4l Fuel Cost associated with qdditional generating capacity
made available through rehabilitation was computed on the basis of:
(a) August 1986 Border Prices
US$/Toe             Rupees/Toe
Fuel Oil                  ,51                   867
Diesel                    131                 2,210
Coal                      66                  1,122
Natural Gas                51                   867
1/ Net of taxes and duties.



-69-
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 3
assuming an exchange rate of Rs 16.87/US$1. The economic cost of natural gas
was set at parity with the border price of fuel oil.
(b) The projected incremental consumption, by type of fuel after taking
into account the fuel savings due to improved heat rate, is shown below:
'000 toe
Diesel                      42
Coal                         7
Natural Gas                 77
Benefits
1.      Additional Generation attributable to the proposed Project was
calculated on the basis of a 60% load factor, allowing for system losses
which are assumed at about 231 of gross generation.
2.      Revenues were calculated on incremental sales attributable to the
proposed Project valued on the basis of WAPDA's average revenue of
Rs 0.75/kWh. Revenues were converted to their equivalent border prices using
a standard conversion factor of 0.9.



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POUER DEVELOPMENT AUTH4RITY
POUER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
................'9'...........................
FY86     FY87     FY88     FY89      FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   F       8FYS9 - FYIS
...... ...... .. ...... ........... ...... .. ... .. .....  ....  ......   .... ......   .... ......   .... ......   .... ......   .........
INFLATION RATE-LOCAL(M)                       10.0      8.0       7.8      7.5      7.3    5.5    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
INFLATION RATE-FOREIGN(%)                      3.2      4.2       7.0      6.8      7.1    5.5    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
CONSTANT (1966) PRICES(PRS MILN.)
.................................
INVESTMENT COSTS                                         45       520      635      356    121      1S.        -----   ..... - ----  -----  .....
LOCAL COSTS                                               13   121   121    54   5   2 .....  -----                                  ----- *---- *----
WATP*TAI                                             11      100      101       45      4       1..... -----  ..... ..... .....  ..
SKILLED LASOUR                                       I    7    7    3   0   0. ..... '' '  ' '   ''                                                .....
UNSKILLED LASOUR                                      I       13       13        6       1      0. -----  .---  ----- - ----  -----.
FOREIGN COSTS                                            32       399      514      303    116      13   ---. ----- -----  -----  -----  .....
IN BODER (1986) PRICES(PRs NNIL.)
...............................
LOCAL COSTS                                               13      126      127       56       6      2 ..... -----  .........   .....                   .....
MATERIAL                                              12      110      111       49      5       2  -----  ----- .....  ..       .....  ..          .....
SKILLED LABOUR                                         1        8        8        3      0       0  -----   ----  -----   . .----  .. ....
UNSKILLED LABOUR                                       1   8   8   4  0  0 ----- ----- -                                     .--- ..-       .   .....
FUEL COSTS                                                 0        0        0        0       0    176    176    176    176    176    176    176          176
ECN#MIlC COSTS (PRO MILLION)
............................
INWESTMENT COSTS                                         45       525      640      359    122      15                ----  -----  .....  .....         .....
OPERATION & NAINTENANCE COSTS                              1       16       20        11      4      5      5      6      6      6       7      7           7
FUEL COSTS                                                 0        0        0        0      0    III    107    103      99     95     91      88          88
TOTAL COSTS                        47      542      660      370    125    130    112    108    105    101       98     95          95
INCEENTAL SALES (NILLION KWh)                             0         0        0        0      0    782    782    782    782    78      782    78           782
BENEFITS (PRS MILLION)                                     0        0        0        0      0    499    499    499    499    499    499    499           499
NET BEFITS (PR8 MILLION)                  -47                     542     -660     -370   -125    369    387    390    394    398    401    404           404
INTERNAL ECNOMIC RATE OF RETURN =  16.0%
o0.



ANNEX 6.1
-71-
PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER PLANT EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Documents and Information in the Project File
1.   Program Design for Efficiency Improvement of Thermal Power Plants in
Pakistan, Volumes I to III (Nov. 1985) and Addendum (March 1986),
Stone & Webster.
2.   Proforma PC-I - Efficiency Improvement of Thermal Power Plants by
Rehabilitation of Existing Plant and Addition of Combined Cycle Plants,
Planning Department, Power Wing, WAPDA, June 1986.
3.   Proforma PC-I - Efficiency Improvement of Thermal Power Plants by
Rehabilitation of Existing Plant and Addition of Combined Cycle Plants,
Planning Department, Power Wing, WAPDA, November 1986.
4.   Financial Projection for WAPDA, 1986-92 - Cost Accounting Cell - WAPDA.
5.   Power System Statistics, Tenth Issue, November 1986.
6.   Project Detailed Estimates - Compass, February 3, 1987.
7.   Investment Alternatives for Financing WAPDA Power Program, Planning
Department, Power Wing, WAPDA, April 1986.
8.   IERR Calculations separately for Combined Cycle Conversion Component
and Rehabilitation Component
9.   Performance of Faisalabad Units - Operational Data



NOTES
. qwwmmmm-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



MAP SECTION



FromMed    LAHORE RING                            U S, S R.                  ~       HN                                    
LA SHAH KAKU                         ~~~~Area  of Mo,p            W. forte co4wbewce of &*
-6                                                  fl'  i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, '.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~6readers and is excluswdY tor the
1                       ~~~~~~~interna iwe of Thewo Wadw*
('~~~~~~~~~  A ~~~~~~~and fte k2terebon F~"nc
/                           ~~~~~~~~~~Corporatton rte denon,nairons
ag                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~part of The Wofld ~Sf* and me
0                                                                                               &W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n pudgnerst on the Legal sftat
f  5                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of any temlony or, any
ae                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~endorsement or accepftane of
-0    PAKISTAN ~ ~ ~ ~~                                           ~         0                     ' 
I N DIA                                                          U 
r                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...1 ..
L A                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARSAK  P-TRE
From Tar     KHPTbataEL
FAISALABAD RING 
CHAINIOT                                                                                                              co,       I
ROAD                                                         -1                                                    :
\'\-                                           ---'o--          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KALASAGH
lz D ~ ~ ~         ~        ~         ~        ~ ~ ~  
66~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
MULTAN      NEW   I~O AK*PAT
30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                30
/                                     4                                                                                                                                                          3



J  -       MUL$~N~~7          - \ k,i
p-o- Fts    -    - -0-                              /
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A    T                                                         AD--  N 
]  \                           \                                    .J ~~~~~~~~~ PAKISTAN
KIIUZDAR                                                                ( > XK"POWER  PLANT  EFFICIENCY
.2 H  *IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
°  ,z'' \   pt'/    yUKKUR 4b-,  j   *  Main Power Stations and Transmission Lines
4th. 5th,
UNDER    KOT ADDU
CONSTRUCTION COMBINED  PROPOSED
OR    CYCLE POWER  POWER
EXISTING    PLANNED   PROJECTS  PROJECT
TRANSMISSION LINES5
DADU                                                 ----        -               500 kV
220 kV
------              ~~~~~66/132  W
-26'
GRID STATIONS            26t
NEW 500 kV
()         ~~~EXTENSIONS Of EXISTING 500 IW
(%. \>t \   \tt0          0                           500 kV
\   LAKHRA \0#tt                                                         0 tw  __   *   O   O   13220 kV
0   0              ~~~~~~~132 kV
JAMSHO                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66 kV
POWER STATIONS:
KAIIA                                                       m                                     H:3  HYDROELECTRIC
M'LE 3    ~ ~ ~    ~       ~ ~ ~                        AA                  A~ THERMAL
NUCLEAR
KARACHI NUCLEAR
POWER PLANT-
-    ,INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
X  ^   0~--  J  0  too00   200          300 KILOMETERS
m._-J                                                                                O,                    100                   200 MILES
66                                                 70                                                 74-



