Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2452a-YL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SMAOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE
I REGIONAL PUTEVE, SAP KOSOVO, PRISTINA
(The Self-Managing Community of Interst for
Arterial and Regional Roads, SAP Kosovo, Pristina)
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, S.R. CRNA GORA, TITOGRAD
(Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, Titograd)
POKRAJINSKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SAP VOJVODINA, NOVI SAD
(Provincial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad)
SOCIJALISTIKA REPUBLIKA MAKEDONIJA
(The Socialist Republic of Macedonia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE PUTEVE,
S.R. BOSNIA I HERZEGOVINA, SARAJEVO
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial-Roads,
S.R. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 15, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                            Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                     Din. 18.53
Din. 1                                                   US$0.0540
Din. 1,000                                               US$54.00
Din. 1,000,000                                           US$54,000.00
*The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973, as of
April 30, 1978, the rate was Din. 18.5340 - $1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL           -       Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COI            -        Communitv of Interest
CRO            -       Council of Republican and Provincial Roads Organizations
CYR            -       Community of Yugoslav Railways
EDI            -        Economic Development Institute
ER             -        Economic Return
GNP            -       Gross National Product
LDR            -       Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
PMEU           -        Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SAP                    Socialist Autonomous Province
SFRY           -       Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SR             -       Socialist Republic
TYH            -       Trans-Yugoslav Highway



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:           Road Organizations of Kosovo, Montenegro, Vojvodina,
and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Socialist Republic
of Macedonia.
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:              US$148 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The proposed project provides for direct participation
by the Bank in a 3-year (mid-1979 to mid-1982) slice of
the 1979-85 highway development programs of the five
participating Republics/Provinces. These development
programs, which result from the recommmendations of
Highway Master Plan Studies which each agency carried
out cover: the construction of new roads; the recon-
struction and rehabilitation of existing roads; the
purchase of specialized equipment to assist the Roads
Organizations in monitoring traffic and in acquiring
and processing data related to the operations of their
networks of interregional and regional (including primary,
secondary and feeder) roads; and personnel training to
assist the Roads Organizations in improving their stan-
dards of administering and maintaining their roads net-
works. Benefits of the highway sector loan would be
improved communications and the lowering of transporta-
tion costs within the five Republics/Provinces. All
sectors of the economy will benefit due to these improve-
ments, and many outlying regions will be better integrated
with the main traffic system, thus permitting a balanced
development of the less-developed parts of Yugoslavia. No
special risks are anticipated in the execution of the
proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2 -
Estimated Cost:                           US$ Million                   Bank's
Local     Foreign       Total      Participation
(a) Kosovo
(i)  Inter-regional roads    26.87         11.46       38.33            7.86
(ii)  Regional roads            44.44       19.10       63.54           13.14
(iii)  Equipment                  0.00         0.90        0.90           0.90
(iv)  Training                   0.10        0.10        0.20            0.10
Subtotal                  71 41       31.56      102.97          22.00
(b) Montenegro
(i)  Inter-regional roads    27.27         11.69       38.96            9.24
(ii)  Regional roads            31.27       13.40       44.67           10.46
(iii)  Equipment                  0.00         0.20        0.20           0.20
(iv)  Training                   0.10        0.10        0.20            0.10
Subtotal                  58.64       25.39       84.03          20.00
(c) Vojvodina
(i)  Inter-regional roads   106.73         45.74      152.47          33.28
(ii)  Regional roads             7.19        3.01       10.20            2.22
(iii)  Equipment                  0.00         0.40        0.40           0.40
(iv)  Training                   0.15        0.10        0.25            0.10
Subtotal                 114.07       49.25      163.32          36.00
(d) Macedonia
(i)  Inter-regional roads    86.08         36.89      122.97          26.49
(ii)  Regional roads            26.04       11.17       37.21            8.11
(iii)  Equipment                  0.00        0.30         0.30           0.30
(iv)  Personnel Training         0.10        0.10        0.20            0.10
Subtotal                 112.22       48.46      160.68          35.00
(e) Bosnia-Herzegovina
(i)  Inter-regional roads   180.90         77.55      258.45          31.40
(ii)  Regional roads            17.19        7.37       24.56            3.10
(iii)  Equipment                  0.00        0.40        0.40            0.40
(iv)  Personnel Training         0.10        0.10        0.20            0.10
Subtotal                 198.19       85.42      283.61          35.00
TOTAL                    554.53      240.08      794.61         148.00
Financial Plan:
IBRD Loan                        -        148.00      148.00
Republics '/Provinces'
Contributions               554.53       92.08      646.61
TOTAL                         554.53      240.08      794.61
Estimated Disbursements:                       US$ Million
FY80        FY81       FY82            FY83
Annual                          23.68       42.92       63.64            17.76
Cumulative                      23.68       66.60      130.24          148.00



-3-
Economic Rates
of Return:           The proposed investments in the construction elements
yield economic returns (ERs) varying from 12 to 50
percent. Weighted average ER of all civil works (which
account for 98 percent of total project costs) is
22 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 2310a-YU, dated March 15, 1979, Highways and
Aviation Division, Projects Department, EMENA Region






- 4 -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE
I REGIONAL PUTEVE, SAP KOSOVO, PRISTINA
(The Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial
and Regional Roads, SAP Kosovo, Pristina)
REPUBLISKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE,
S.R. CRNA GORA, TITOGRAD
(Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest for Roads
of the S.R. of Montenegro, Titograd)
POKRAJINSKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SAP VOJVODINA, NOVI SAD
(Provincial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad)
SOCIJALISTIKA REPUBLIKA MAKEDONIJA
(the S.R. of Macedonia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE PUTEVE,
S.R. BOSNIA I HERZEGOVINA, SARAJEVO
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial Roads,
S.R. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$148.0 million to the Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Arterial and Regional Roads, SAP Kosovo, Pristina; the Self-Managing Republic
Community of Interest for Roads of the S. R. of Montenegro, Titograd; the
Provincial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad; the S.R. of Macedonia
and the Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial Roads, S.R. Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Sarajevo, with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, to finance a part of the foreign exchange costs for a Tenth
Highway Project. The loan would bear interest at 7 percent per annum and
would have a term of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and Novem-
ber 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social



-5-
development. It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector is comprised predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, trans-
port and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by the principle
of workers self-management bringing with it its own set of unique institutions
and instruments of economic policy. The current system has gradually evolved
over the years with important new changes introduced in the Constitution
of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision making power
of workers. The federative structure of the state has been strengthened.
Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has been shifted
from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes. Concurrently,
the control of workers, through their workers collectives, over the socially
owned means of production has been potentially increased by a restructuring
of all economic organizations. All economic organizations e.g. enterprises,
now consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor
(BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a marketable
output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell provides
workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product of their
work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to strengthening decision-making power of workers at the
micro level, recent changes have extended workers self-management to the macro-
economic sphere. New instruments of macro-economic policy have been intro-
duced which are formulated on the basis of participation of all economic
agents. These new measures are expected to strengthen macro-economic manage-
ment. The impact of these changes is apparent in incomes, prices and employ-
ment policy and in the foreign exchange and commercial policy. The most
significant development, however, is the introduction of a new system of
planning.
5.        The new system of planning--self-management planning--is based as
in central planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of
the economy. Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the
form of medium term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus
reflecting a strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp
contrast to central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of
all economic units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process
involves a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of
economic units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, economic
units enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and demand.
In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state can
impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. GDP between 1954-75 grew at an average annual rate of about
7 percent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high through-
out the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since population



- 6 -
grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than tripled
during the period to an estimated $1,960 at 1977 market prices. 1/ The
social sector, in particular industry, was the driving force of the economy.
The share of industry in GDP has increased to 47 percent while agriculture
has declined to 16 percent, paving the way for development of a modern
industry/service oriented urban society. The past two decades have also been
associated with a growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy.
Between 1954-76 exports and imports of goods and non-factor services have
grown by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per annum in real terms, respec-
tively; much of this in the convertible currency areas.
7.        Although Yugoslavia's overall performance has been impressive,
Yugoslavia has been characterized by large regional income disparities. Four
of the regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with
two-thirds of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-
third, are officially designated as less developed regions (LDRs). The differ-
ence between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. Parallel to these inter-regional disparities there are
large intraregional per capita disparities ranging 10 to 1 between communes.
These differences are a product of diverse factors notably differing shares of
the low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic conditions
e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until recently
regional income disparities tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary
credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3 percent of
the GDP of the LDRs in 1974, have been transferred to the LDRs through the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the expanding modern
sector. Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by
around 4 percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in
1973 Yugoslavia had 830,000 external migrants in Western Europe. However,
since 1973, with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host coun-
tries, this trend has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and
placing considerable pressure on the social sector to create new work places.
Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from about 7 in 1971 to nearly 13 in
1976. 2/ This problem has taken an added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment has been highly regionalized. In 1975 unemployment rates ranged from
23.5 in Kosovo to 1.5 in Slovenia.
1/   According to the 1978 World Bank Atlas.
2/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered unemployment to social sector
labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment to total resident
labor force would have been about 7.5 percent in 1976.



-7-
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has been charac-
L--ized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior.  Periods of rapid economic
growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments diffi-
culties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity.
This has been followed by periods of relatively modest growth and improve-
ments in the balance of payments situation. In 1974, rapid domestic economic
growth, recession in Western Europe and higher oil prices resulted in a
sharp deterioration of the balance of payments situation and a $1.2 billion
current account deficit. In the same year domestic inflation (industrial
producer prices) fueled by external price rises, accelerated to 29 percent.
Both 1975 and 1976 were marked by policies aimed at stabilizing the economy
through moderating the rate of growth, improving the balance of payments
situation and reducing inflation. GDP grew by 3.6 percent per annum in
1975 and 3.9 percent in 1976, well below the historical trend rate. Weak
domestic demand reduced import requirements and placed pressure on enter-
prises to export. This, and the recovery of activity in the OECD, led to
a 9.6 percent real increase in exports. Imports during the same period fell
by 4.0 percent. As a result, the current account deficit was transformed to a
surplus of $150 million. Inflation also dropped perceptively to 6 percent.
This was partly due to slack domestic demand but also due to stringent
price controls.
10.       A strong upturn in economic activity driven by a revival in invest-
ment activity began in mid-1976 and has continued since. There was a rapid
increase in money supply in 1976. Enterprises began to adjust to the new
financial and accounting system introduced early in 1976, which through
increasing financial accountability of enterprises, had been an important
factor in dampening the level of economic activity in early 1976. GDP is
estimated to have grown by 7.5 percent and the industrial sector by 9.4 per-
cent in 1977. This upturn led to a revival of inflationary pressure and a
sharp deterioration in the balance of payments situation. Inflation increased
to 10 percent, exports declined in real terms by 4 percent and imports rose by
14 percent. The current account recorded a deficit of $1.8 billion. There
was some slackening in the level of economic activity in 1978. GDP is expected
to increase by around 6 percent despite an anticipated drop in agricultural
production of 5 percent due to adverse weather conditions. The current account
deficit is expected to fall to around $1.0 billion. However, the rate of infla-
tion has continued to rise to an estimated 13-14 percent. Policies for 1979
aim at maintaining a 6 percent growth in GDP, a 5 percent growth of exports and
a 5 percent growth in imports. The current account deficit is projected to
remain around $1.2 billion.
11.       Despite the uneven growth rate of GDP since 1974, employment has
expanded steadily and rapidly. An important factor in this has been the social
pressure on enterprises to create additional work places. Employment grew by
5.4 percent in 1975, 3.5 percent in 1976 and 4.8 percent in 1977. Labor pro-
ductivity has as a result grown little during this period. Since real personal
incomes have continued to rise, unit labor costs have risen.



- 8 -
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The external events of 1973 and 1974 have had an important impact on
Yugoslavia's medium-term outlook, particularly in two areas. The first is the
balance of payments. The sharp increase in the price of oil led to a sudden
increase in the country's import bill. More importantly, the decline in the
number of Yugoslav workers abroad will inhibit the growth of workers' remit-
tances, which account for about one fifth of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange
earnings. The prospects for growth of merchandise exports have also deterio-
rated because of the slower growth in Western Europe. The balance of payments
has consequently become a potentially more binding constraint on economic
growth. The second area is employment. External migration was a key factor
in allowing the low-productivity, private agricultural labor force to decline
rapidly between 1965-73. Return of Yugoslav workers will place considerable
pressure on the labor market and in particular the social sector, which is the
main source of new jobs.
13.       Prospects for the Yugoslav economy, despite the constraint imposed
by the balance of payments remain good. Yugoslavia has always shown a consid-
erable degree of pragmatism and flexibility in dealing with economic problems.
In addition the adoption of the new system of planning enables Yugoslavia to
adopt and implement a medium-term development strategy. The 1976-80 Five Year
Plan foresees important structural changes to deal with the new external
circumstances. On the question of the balance of payments, Yugoslavia has,
by and large, opted for the import substitution route. To ensure greater
self-sufficiency the Plan calls for a major restructuring of the economy with
emphasis on raw materials and intermediate goods, and particularly the power
sector. Included in the priority sectors are basic chemicals, ferrous metal-
lurgy, parts of non-ferrous metallurgy, agriculture, food processing and inter-
republic transportation. These were areas where production had lagged and
where import dependency had increased most after 1965, despite considerable
possibilities for local production.
14.       To achieve these objectives the plan foresees a growth in GDP of
7.0 percent. Exports are projected to rise by 8.5 percent in constant dollars.
However, imports are projected to rise by only 4.5 percent reflecting the sig-
nificant degree of import substitution anticipated. This, however, appears
somewhat excessive and may not be attainable during the plan period. Conse-
quently, if Yugoslavia adheres to the ceiling it has set in the plan on the
level of indebtedness and debt service ratio, a somewhat more modest growth
rate of 5-6 percent is likely to be achieved. Rapid expansion of employment
opportunities remain one of the key objectives of the plan. To compensate for
the generally more capital-intensive investments involved in developing raw
materials and intermediate goods, a number of measures have been introduced to
ensure a sufficiently rapid growth of employment opportunities. Emphasis is
placed on development of labor-intensive activities and small scale industry.
An employment policy has been adopted to facilitate an orderly growth of work
opportunities in existing enterprises. New incentives have also been provided
to the private sector to encourage investment in productive activities. These
measures are expected to lead to a 3-4 percent growth in modern sector work



- 9 -
places. Such a growth will be sufficient to absorb returning migrants and
some outflow of workers from the agricultural sector albeit at a slower pace
than in the past decade.
15.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities is also a priority
objective of the plan. The previous financial transfer mechanism continues
as the principal instrument for regional development. However, in addition
to this, provisions have been made for direct joint venture investment by
enterprises in the developed, into the less developed regions. This measure
is expected to facilitate a transfer of managerial and technological know-how
in addition to the financial transfers of the past few years. The regional
problem, however, is expected to remain as one of the least tractable issues
facing the Yugoslav economy and one that will only be resolved in the longer
run.
Creditworthiness
16.       In the period 1974-76 gross capital inflows averaged around $2.0
billion per annum increasing the total level of medium- and long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed to $7.1 billion by the end of 1976. About 80 percent
of Yugoslavia's debt contracted during this period was contracted from commer-
cial sources in convertible currencies. The bulk of this has been suppliers
credits though financial credits in the Euro-currency market have become
increasingly important in financing the economy's residual external capital
needs. The World Bank is the principal source of non-commercial long-term
credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to need substantial credits
in the commercial markets to achieve its medium-term economic objectives.
The debt service ratio averaged 17 between 1974-76. The level of borrowing
necessary to sustain a growth rate of 6.0 percent is expected to lead to a
rise in the debt service ratio to around 20 in the early 1980s. Given
Yugoslavia's past debt service record and demonstrable control over the
balance of payments, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount
of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
17.       The Bank has made 54 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,118
million. Of this amount, approximately 40 percent ($856.4 million) has been
for 18 loans for the transportation sector--9 for highways, 5 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). Seven loans totalling $343 million
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries Project (Report No.
P-2361a-YU) of September 20, 1978.



- 10 -
(about 16 percent of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia) have been made for
agriculture (including two for irrigation) and agro-industries. Fourteen
loans amounting to $300 million (about 14 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry and two for tourism amounting to $30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about $171 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of January 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the less developed
regions (LDRs), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural
sector in particular.
19.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has



- 11 -
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
20.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
21.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending,
as noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as
this proposed Tenth Highway Project as well as the Bosanska-Krajina Agricul-
ture and Agro-Industries Project (approved October 5, 1978), the Macedonia
Strezevo Irrigation Project (approved August 8, 1978) and the Third and Fourth
Industrial Credit Projects (approved July 11, 1978), as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for water supply
and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural development,
emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Previously
approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway Project (Fiscal
Year 1978) and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project (also Fiscal Year 1978),
as well as the Second Power Transmisson Project approved in Fiscal Year 1977,
will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and
energy sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new investment oppor-
tunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical, management
and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
22.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loans Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia, the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loans Nos. 1129-YU and 1477-YU, respectively), the Macedonia Strezevo Irri-
gation Project (Loan No. 1616-YU), as well as the Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture
and Agro-Industries Project (Loan No. 1621-YU), have given special attention
to the needs of the individual farmer sector.



- 12 -
23.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
24.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
25.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all Republics/Provinces. The promise of further
progress in the coming years is reassuring and additional improvements in
sector coordination and policy are foreseen in conjunction with the proposed
project and other upcoming projects.
26.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the foreseeable
future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only consti-
tutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally important,



- 13 -
is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of inter-
national confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
27.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 9.2 percent of
Yugoslavia's total debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to
the Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yuguslavia's total
debt outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 4.7 percent in 1976 and is projected to be about 6
percent by 1980.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
28.       Two main factors have influenced the development pattern of Yugo-
slavia's transport network. First, topography has dictated the use of the
broad river valleys as transportation corridors, with the result that the
country's principal road/rail links follow the fertile Sava/Danube flood
plains on an approximate northwest to southeast alignment. The southern and
coastal mountains have proved formidable and costly obstacles to transport
development in the transverse direction and it is the misfortune of some
of the less-developed regions of Yugoslavia that they have the added burden
of expensive access routes either to the coast or to the hinterland (Map
IBRD 13850).
29.        Secondly, for historical reasons, the northwestern and central
regions of the country achieved levels of development in some sectors,
transport included, on a par with western Europe. By contrast, in the poorer
regions to the south, the pace of development was much slower. Moreover,
Yugoslavia's geographical location is such that it is an important crossroads
in the European transport system. It provides access to the sea for many of
its northern neighbors, and is as well an important link in the east/west
route between Europe and the Middle East.
30.       Transport is therefore a dynamic sector of the Yugoslav economy.
The system is well diversified; there are 7 major ports, nearly 10,000 km of
rail lines, 100,000 km of roads, 15 airports (10 catering for international
flights) and a sizeable network of inland waterways. Pipelines also have come
into increasing use in recent years. Government's broad aim is to ensure the
balanced development of all modes of transport to meet the needs not only of
Yugoslavia's own market-oriented economy, but to improve the country's inte-
gration with the world economy. The attainment of regional balance in eco-
nomic development has also been an explicit objective of the Government.



- 14 -
Increasingly emphasized is the improvement of transport links between the
economically-advanced and the less-developed Republics and Provinces and
within the less-developed areas.
31.      Roads and railways are the backbone of the transport system but
traffic growth for these and other modes has been rather uneven.  During the
last ten years the freight traffic (ton-km) on railways increased by about 3
percent per annum compared to an increase of about 12 percent per annum on
highways. The passenger traffic on railways remained practically unchanged
during the same period, in contrast with an increase of about 20 percent
per annum on highways. The railways, however, continue to be the main carrier
of bulk commodities over relatively long distances for key industries (see
also para. 35). River transport has retained an important place, carrying
about 10 percent of total freight traffic. Ports have more than doubled their
cargo handling since the early 1960s and currently move about 20 million tons
per annum.
B. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
32.      Since the mid-1960s the administration of Yugoslavia has steadily
moved towards decentralization of decision making, with enterprises, operating
under workers' self-management in a market-oriented economy. During the late
1960s and in line with this policy, the principal responsibility for transport
within Government was transferred from Federal to Republican/Provincial author-
ities. In 1975 the Federal Secretariat for Transport was replaced by a Federal
Committee, whose President and Vice-President are Federal officials, and whose
other members are the Republican and Provincial Secretaries responsible for
transport. This committee has now been left with a mainly coordinating func-
tion as Governmental responsibility for planning, financing, implementation
and regulation of the road network is being transferred to Communities of
Interest (COIs) in each of the Republics/Provinces. Each COI consists of one
or more transport enterprises and their users, and their authority is confined
to one Republic or Province. Transport enterprises are constituted as associa-
tions of Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs--see para. 3), each
BOAL consisting typically of a few hundred workers. The BOALs are the prime
sources of authority in the enterprise and enjoy a large measure of autonomy.
33.      The transfer of authority to the "grass roots" agencies and transport
organizations has increased the number of decision-making bodies, and has made
the country-wide planning and coordination of transport more difficult,
especially coordination between road and rail. Until recently there has been
no overall, clearly stated transport policy, although the basic rationale
for one is implicit in the country's main economic principles:  free choice
by users and competition in a market economy among autonomous transport
enterprises. In late 1976, however, with a view to creating the necessary
conditions for integrated development of transport, the Federation, the
Republics and the Autonomous Provinces mutually agreed to establish a long-
term transport policy for the country. Since then considerable progress has
been made in this direction, and the authorities have concluded, in early
1977, Social Agreements on the various aspects of future transport policy.



- 15 -
34.       According to these Social Agreements, the Government's principal
objectives for the transport sector are: (i) to build up a transport infra-
structure in support of the developments taking place in other sectors of
the economy; (ii) to develop the various modes of transport as an integrated
network and in such proportions and combinations as will meet the total
needs of the economy at minimum cost to the community; (iii) to open up
less-developed regions and foster interdependence and economic integration of
the regions of the country; (iv) to provide the national network with adequate
facilities for connection to the network of neighboring countries; and (v) to
rationalize the use of energy in transportation and to reduce the negative
effects of transportation on environment.
35.      To these ends, the authorities intend to encourage the use of rail
and water transport for long- and medium-distance commodity hauls and of road
transport for short hauls. Priority is to be accorded to railway and air
transport for transportation of passengers on medium and long distances.
Given the availability of two or more parallel transportation routes (railway
lines, rivers, highways), highway transport should be used to complement and
integrate with other transport modes. A standard methodology is to be estab-
lished to assess the allocation of resources to all branches and forms of
transport infrastructure, commensurate with the utilization and relative
advantages of each. Much of the success in translating the transport policy
into a concrete action program will depend on the effectiveness of the decen-
tralized decision-making process.
C. Bank Role in the Sector
36.       In tandem with the broad strategy of the Bank, as detailed in Part
II of this report, and as an integral part of our endeavors to support Yugo-
slavia's economic development, we have emphasized the need for policy and
investment coordination. The Yugoslav authorities are also acutely aware of
the need for a sound institutional framework within which various transport
agencies and enterprises can collaborate effectively. The Bank has provided
some stimulus in promoting these institution-building policies, resulting in:
(i) the establishment of the Federal Committee (originally
a Secretariat) for Transport and Communications;
(ii) the establishment of the Secretariats or Committees for
Transport in most Republics and Provinces;
(iii) the establishment of the Council of Republican and
Provincial Roads Organization (CRO--see para. 43); and
(iv) strengthening the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR).
37.      In the past one of the Bank's main objectives in Yugoslavia's trans-
port sector has been the development of the local skills needed to operate
the modal institutions. Under the Third and Fourth Highway Loans 608-YU and
678-YU the laws and decrees related to the highway subsector were reviewed,
the organizations for road maintenance and their operations were overhauled



- 16 -
and improved, and traffic counting, which earlier had been rudimentary, was
reorganized on a systematic and planned basis. Subsequent highway and railway
loans (Loans Nos. 751-YU, 990-YU, 1026-YU, 1143-YU, 1377-YU) provided techni-
cal assistance in the formulation of standardized guidelines for the prepara-
tion of feasibility studies, personnel training, action plans, highway master
plans and other important studies like road users' charges and rail costs.
These latter two complementary studies (included as a component of the Eighth
Highway Project--Loan No. 1377-YU of April 13, 1977) are designed to establish
an appropriate basis for developing a policy framework (including tariffs)
which would permit the orderly economic development of the transport sector,
and are expected to provide a firm basis for the efficient and economic
utilization and coordination of transport facilities. Both studies are now in
progress; the Road User Charges Study is expected to be completed shortly and
the Rail Costs Study towards the end of 1979. Further progress in consolidat-
ing these endeavors has resulted in the formulation of the proposed project
described in Part IV of this report.
D.   The Highway Sub-sector
38.       Prior to 1955, the development of road transport was rather limited
under a Government policy which accorded priority to the railways. Since then,
the Government's policy has been aimed towards creating economic conditions
equally favorable for the development of all transport modes, and hence road
transport has expanded rapidly. In the past decade, the number of cars has
increased about threefold, and the numbers of trucks and buses have almost
doubled. Freight and passenger traffic on the network (in ton-km and passenger-
km) has likewise increased about two to three times during the same period.
Most of the vehicle fleet increases was met from domestic production. Where a
decade ago domestic production of cars and trucks was about equal to imports,
now annual domestic production is about three times higher than the total
annual imports.s Although private car ownership is steadily rising as per
capita incomes grow, per capita private car ownership in the different regions
of the country varies widely, but is in line with their states of development.
For example, Slovenia, the most developed Republic has six inhabitants per
car, whilst Kosovo, the least developed, has about 100 inhabitants per car.
39.       The accelerated development of the paved network began in the
early 1960s, at which time only about 9,000 km of paved roads were open to
traffic; since then the paved length has increased about fivefold. Of the
about 100,000 km of roads which existed at the beginning of 1977, about 41,000
km were paved. However, improvements to the highway network have not kept
pace with the growth of road traffic. Many roads are by modern standards
inadequately designed both in geometry and pavement capability. With high
traffic volumes, unacceptable levels of traffic congestion often result.
In general, most of the roads are inadequate for the traffic they are now
carrying.
40.       Although highway expenditures for investment and maintenance have
increased steadily over the last decade, they have not been sufficient in view
of the rapid expansion and modernization of the economy, and inflation has



- 17 -
eroded a substantial portion of the increased outlay. Highway expenditures
for new construction and upgrading increased from about US$150 million per
annum during 1966-70, to an aver4ge of about US$290 million per annum under
the 1971-75 and about US$350 million per annum during 1976-80 Five-Year Plans.
accounting for about 70-75 percent of total highway expenditures. The remain-
ing 25-30 percent of highway expenditures was for highway maintenance which
has been, in general, satisfactory. Overall highway expenditures for new
construction and upgrading in 1977 amounted to about 72 percent of total
highway expenditures with the remaining 28 percent earmarked for highway
maintenance.
41.      The Federal Government's role in highway financing has been phasing
out since 1970, when it was decided that the Federation should cease its
participation and only carry out obligations under previous commitments. In
1977, the Federal Government's remaining contribution to highway financing was
only about 2 percent of the total expenditure. The main source of highway
financing is the revenue from taxes on gasoline and diesel oil, license fees,
and the revenues from taxes paid by foreign motorists on entering Yugoslavia,
and collected by the Federation. In Yugoslavia the total revenue from these
road-user charges was estimated for the first time in 1970 and amounted to
US$183 million equivalent. This amount exceeded the total expenditures on
inter-urban highways during that year of US$144 million equivalent. Since
then, although both the revenue for these road-user charges and the expendi-
ture on roads have each increased about three to fourfold, the same pre-
ponderance of revenue over expenditure still exists. Only a proportion of
these revenues is, however, specifically earmarked for road development
and maintenance purposes. In the year 1977, such earmarked revenues covered
about 40 percent of the total expenditures for highway development and main-
tenance, and the balance of the outlay on these items was made up from foreign
and domestic loans (24 percent), contributions by the Republics, Provinces,
Communes (21 percent), the Fund for Less Developed Regions (4 percent),
contributions by the Federal Government (2 percent), and other sources (9
percent). In view of the earmarked revenues covering about 40 percent of the
total expenditures, the road development plans of the respective Republican/
Provincial Roads Organizations (para. 43) depend also upon budgetary alloca-
tions, public loans, bank credits and voluntary contributions.
Administration and Organization
42.       The main responsibility for highway administration is now centered in
the Republics and Provinces (para. 32), with the Federal Government playing
a role now confined to common policy and regulatory matters such as the
control of vehicle weights and dimensions, road safety, and the international
aspects of highway administration and road transport.
43.      At the Republican and Provincial levels, authority for administering
regional and inter-regional roads outside the boundaries of communes (urban
and municipal areas), is vested in the Republican or Provincial Road Organiza-
tions. As described earlier (para. 32), these organizations are, by the
involvement of road-user groups, changing their characters to Communities of



- 18 -
Interest (COI). This change is still going on and has progressed quicker in
some of the Republics than in others. These Roads Organizations and the
evolving COIs are, or will be governed by "Boards" on which are represented
members of various groups each with an interest in roads, such as transport
companies, industrial enterprises, agricultural cooperatives, professional and
road user organizations. The membership of these Boards is usually large, so
the members elect Executive Boards which are responsible not only for day-to-
day administration, but also for the preparation of proposals for highway
development. These proposals are co-related through the planning system with
the plans from other sectors, screened, and submitted for approval to the
Republican or Provincial Governments. Purely local roads are under the
jurisdiction of local communities which have special departments for this
purpose. In cities, the planning authorities are viewing with growing concern
the problems resulting from increasing vehicle use, and are seeking ways and
means to rationalize the use of all transport facilities especially through
the development of public mass transport. In an effort to relieve urban areas
of through traffic, recent Bank-financed highway projects have included the
construction of by-passes of towns and cities. Coordination among the Road
Organizations is provided through the Republican Assemblies, the Federal
Committee for Transport and Communications, and the CRO (para. 36), the latter
having been established in 1971 by the Roads Organizations of all the Republics/
Provinces. The CRO has been active in the national standardization of engineer-
ing and design criteria, data collection and other technical matters.
Performance Under Past Highway Projects
44.       Out of the nine highway projects for which the Bank has provided
financing, five have been successfully completed; all the roads in the Sixth
Project are also open to traffic and the remaining projects are well in hand.
Project Performance Audit Reports on the Third and Fourth Highway Projects
(Reports Nos. 1385 of December 10, 1976 and 1632 of June 15, 1977, respec-
tively) emphasize that the projects have been successfully completed with
most civil works carried out close to appraisal schedule. The Third Highway
audit report stresses the need, however, to ensure that tolls imposed do not
reduce the optimal use of tolled facilities; this point has been taken into
account in subsequent projects and the loan agreements for road projects have
included a clause to this effect where relevant. However, in the currently
proposed highway sector program, there are no specific proposals to levy
tolls. Progress regarding the overseas training program under the Fifth and
Sixth Highway Projects has been slow owing largely to language difficulties
encountered (insufficient candidates proficient in English). Consequently,
a training program was arranged in October 1978 in Yugoslavia and in colla-
boration with Economic Development Institute (EDI) staff with simultaneous
translation services in English and Serbo-Croatian. Following the initial
assistance from the EDI, the CRO hopes to continue with EDI-type courses on
its own on a regular basis. Regarding the Seventh Highway Project (Loan No.
1143-YU of July 18, 1975), work is in progress on all the project roads of
Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro, but in the case of Slovenia, progress has
been slow due to difficulties presented by swampy terrain. Regarding the
Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU of April 13, 1977), work on all the



- 19 -
project roads of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Kosovo has already
begun and the progress is satisfactory. Finally, concerning the Ninth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1535-YU of April 13, 1978), the Bank has already approved
the contract prequalification of all project road sections as well as the bid
evaluation for construction contract award of road sections in Croatia for
which contracts have now been awarded. The schedule of equipment to be
procured has been finalized. In general, performance under highway projects
has been extremely satisfactory; problems, when encountered, have related to
land acquisition where unforeseen difficulties have delayed construction, such
as was the case under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan No. 678-YU of May 28,
1970). Cost overruns resulting from exchange rate adjustments and higher
than anticipated inflation have not been excessive (between 8 percent and 12
percent).
IV. THE ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.   Background
45.       To accord with the transport policy objectives articulated in Social
Agreements (para. 34) dating from early 1977, Yugoslavia is giving increased
emphasis to projects which would improve the lot of the less-developed regions.
Better transportation is recognized as catalytic to development in most other
sectors, but to reach outlying communities, many of which have poor access to
centers of employment and commerce, not only inter-regional roads, but also
regional roads and feeder roads must be included in highway development pro-
grams. Thus, there has followed acceptance of the need for each Republic/
Province to assess its total requirements in the highway subsector in a
comprehensive overview operation based on a highway master plan study.
Accordingly, with the encouragement of the Bank and the Federal Authorities,
each of the concerned administrations of the less-developed Republics/Province
and of SAP Vojvodina has prepared such a study covering the period up to 1985.
From the findings of these master plan studies, each Republic/Province has
developed a relatively firm three-year investment program. These plans and
programs, which represent an important step towards introducing systematic
planning into the highway subsector of Yugoslavia, usher in a new era in the
Bank's highway lending in Yugoslavia, as they form the basis of the sector
loan to the individual Republics/Provinces. Each Republic/Province now
recognizes sector lending as the natural progression from the Bank's earlier
''section-by-section" lending which aimed at financing only specific lengths of
road.
46.       The new approach provides the opportunity of comparing projects one
with another within a particular Republic or Province and ranking these
according to economic priorities. This would ensure that critically needed
investments in regional, secondary and feeder roads, so essential for the
less-developed regions to cater for and induce economic development in the
outlying areas, are not obscured by the visibly more pressing needs of the
arterial network. In addition, sector lending also offers the opportunity for



- 20 -
overall appraisal of the program, the institutional and financial capability
and of the broader sector policies necessary to provide coordination between
roads and development in other sectors.
B. The 1979-85 Road Sector Program
47.       The main objectives of the 1979-85 Road Programs are to:
(i) support agricultural and industrial development plans,
and improve access to social services through a balanced
development of main, secondary, and feeder roads, such
development programs being within the financial and tech-
nical capabilities of the governments concerned;
(ii) ensure adequate maintenance of the existing highway network;
(iii) strengthen, as needed, through technical assistance and
training, the operations and administration of the Road
Organizations so as to improve the implementation of, and
their capability to monitor the road Programs; and
(iv) reinforce the achievements realized under earlier Projects
to foster a stable and effective domestic contracting
industry, and to develop the capabilities of local consult-
ing organizations.
48.       The present program will involve construction, reconstruction and
rehabilitation of about 2,100 km of inter-regional and regional roads in the
five participating Republics and Provinces, including on-going works. The
Program also provides for the maintenance of the existing and planned networks
of about 15,500 km of roads of which about 10,300 km are paved; for training
of technical staff of the Road Enterprises, for Consultants' services and for
equipment needed to improve planning and operational functions of the Roads
Organization. In terms of constant 1977 Prices the increase in road expendi-
ture for these five Republics and Provinces in 1979-85 compared to 1972-78 is
expected to be about 35 percent. The local contracting industry and Road
Maintenance Enterprises are capable and well organized and are expected to
accomplish the programmed targets on time under the overall supervision of
the Road Organizations.
Broad Strategy of the Planned Program
49.       SAP Kosovo.  During the past decade, SAP (Socialist Autonomous
Province) Kosovo has concentrated network construction on inter-regional
connections and has not given as great an importance to the regional road
network connecting the principal centers of Kosovo. The proposed investment
program emphasizes, therefore, the upgrading and expansion of the regional
network, including secondary and feeder roads, to improve the level of
regional service, and the strengthening, widening and rehabilitation of
existing inter-regional links.



- 21 -
50.       The maintenance program in Kosovo is aimed at strengthening the
supervision function of the Maintenance Department through training, organiza-
tion and improvements in administration.
51.       S.R. Montenegro.  In the past few years the thrust of transport
investment in Montenegro has been towards construction of the Belgrade/Bar
railway and the development of the port of Bar. During this period, invest-
ment in road infrastructure took a secondary place. Now, with these major
improvements completed, the Republic in its proposed road program is addressing
three primary objectives: (i) to improve access from Titograd, the Republican
capital, to the northern Adriatic coast for socio-economic integration to
facilitate the growth of key industries and to develop tourism; (ii) to open
up undeveloped areas in the hinterland presently with meager access; and (iii)
to improve from the inter-regional point of view, the road links with Bosnia-
Herzegovina to the west. In addition, through the proposed maintenance
program it will strengthen and modernize its operations.
52.       SAP Vojvodina.  The long-term development strategy of Vojvodina in
which the proposed road program will play its part, visualizes the decentral-
ization of activity from the capital, Novi Sad, to five other primary centers.
Each, in addition to its spatial separation from the others, is already the
focus of particular activities (agriculture, petrochemicals, metal processing,
etc.), and accounts in its own right for a significant contribution to the
Province's income. There will be strong transportation links (principally
highways) between Novi Sad and these five independent satellites. In its turn
each primary center is the development focus of its adjoining areas with which
each primary center should have sound transportation links. Thus, a web-like
pattern of primary, secondary and feeder roads for the Province is in the
course of evolution. In the short run, however, first priorities will be
given to eliminating bottlenecks on the Province's two primary routes; the
north-south E5 and the east-west E-94 which also forms part of the trans-
Yugoslav highway.
53.       S.R. Macedonia.  During the last decade (Road Plans 1971-75 and
1976-80), road development plans were mainly concerned with the expansion
of the network of regional roads to serve key areas of development in the
Republic. Although more expansion of the network will still be made to pro-
vide needed links, the emphasis is now being turned to the consolidation of
previous investments in terms of the improvement and upgrading of roads to
better provide for the increasingly heavy vehicle flows, to stimulate activi-
ties in the under-developed parts of the Republic and to cater to the needs
of other expanding sectors of the economy--diversion and dispersion of indus-
try throughout the Republic.
54.       S.R. Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Since the early 1960s Bosnia and
Herzegovina has devoted a major proportion of its budget to providing a
transport network to meet the needs of its hundred-odd diverse communities.
The largest of all Yugoslavia's lesser developed regions, the rugged nature of
its terrain and its extreme climate has made any effort to improve transporta-
tion a difficult and costly task. Now with the first objective of providing a



- 22 -
basic network substantially completed, the Republic is turning its efforts to
improving quality of services its roads can provide by increasing capacity of
its major inter-regional and regional routes. First priority is being given
to improving the geometric design and capacity of clearly identifiable "bottle-
neck" sections, all too many of which are the cause of considerable traffic
congestion now. The high costs of road works in the rocky mountainous terrain
dictate that an alignment decision can only be taken after a careful review of
all reasonable alternatives has been made. The Republic has been prudent in
this respect as it is fully aware that it gets less road per Din,r invested
than do its neighbors with easier terrain to traverse.
Assessment of the Program
55.       The Roads Sector Programs are well conceived.  The development
programs of the five Republics/Provinces are the results of a long and patient
review process and they take into account the capability of the Roads Orga-
nizations to execute the works proposed and their ability to finance them.
The Bank has focussed on the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
in each of the participating Roads Organizations to bring forward sound sub-
projects envisaged within the Program in a timely manner, to monitor implemen-
tation of these road works and to evaluate their impact.
56.       The adequacy of the Programs' planned level of maintenance has been
reviewed and is considered realistic. Most of these Road Organizations have
established strong maintenance units and have demonstrated their capacity to
plan and execute road construction and improvement projects to satisfactory
standards. Their highway programs have been generally responsive to the needs
of the various parts of the Republics/Provinces and flexible enough to meet
changing circumstances. Wherever necessary, the program aims at strengthening
the supervision function through training, improvements in administration and
provision of equipment, particularly to develop a traffic flow information
system.
C. The Project
Introduction
57.       The proposed project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this Report and described in detail in the report
"Staff Appraisal of a Highway Sector Project" No. 2310a-YU dated March 15,
1979, was appraised by a mission which visited Yugoslavia in September 1978.
Negotiations were held in Washington during February 5-12, 1979. The Yugoslav
delegation was led by Mr. Avdo Zvonic, Deputy President, Federal Committee for
Transport and Communications, and included representatives of the five borrow-
ing Roads Organizations and the CRO. Annex III summarizes key events leading
to Board presentation, special Bank actions needed for project implementation
and the special conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement.



- 23 -
General Project Description
General
58.       The proposed Tenth Highway Project comprises the first phase (a
three-year tranche from mid-1979 to mid-1982) of the 1979-85 highway sector
programs of Kosovo, Montenegro, Vojvodina, Macedonia, and Bosnia and
Herzegovina and consists of the following:
(i) improvement, construction and maintenance of inter-regional
and regional roads (previously classified as class 1, 2 and 3
categories);
(ii) strengthening of management and operations of the partici-
pating Roads Organizations through personnel training and
provision of equipment;
(iii) establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in each of
the participating Roads Organization to monitor implementa-
tion of the road works and to evaluate their impact.
Detailed Description
59.       Civil Works.  The physical construction targets would consist of:
(i) rehabilitation, strengthening, widening and new con-
struction of about 150 km of inter-regional roads and
about 180 km of regional roads in SAP Kosovo;
(ii)   strengthening, widening, new construction and paving
of gravel roads of about 50 km of inter-regional
roads and about 75 km of regional roads in SR
Montenegro;
(iii)   rehabilitation, strengthening widening and new construc-
tion of about 75 km of inter-regional roads and about
10 km of regional roads in SAP Vojvodina.
(iv)   rehabilitation, strengthening, widening and new con-
struction of about 195 km of inter-regional roads and
about 110 km of regional roads in Macedonia;
(v)   strengthening, widening, new construction of about
300 km of inter-regional and about 60 km of regional
roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
60.       Tentative lists of specific sections to be improved and/or upgraded
within these Republics and Provinces have been compiled on the basis of the
priorities derived from the detailed highway master plan studies. The sub-
projects are taken from a three-year time slice of a relatively homogeneous
investment program. Completion of detailed engineering to the extent that the



- 24 -
first year's contracts can be awarded has been considered adequate to allow
construction work on the program to begin, and to provide a satisfactory basis
for refined cost estimates for the remainder of the program. Engineering,
according to acceptable design standards, has been carried out by competent
Yugoslav engineering consulting firms (design institutes) and by institutes
for geology, soil mechanics and civil engineering. Further engineering for
additional links scheduled later in the program would be done sequentially.
The entire program will be reviewed annually by the Borrowers and the Bank,
and any changes thereto mutually agreed.
61.       Maintenance.  Routine and recucrertL muaintenance of inter-regional
and regional roads of about 1,800 km of roads in Kosovo, about 1,700 km of
roads in Montenegro, about 2,500 km of roads in Vojvodina, about 3,000 km of
roads in Macedonia and about 6,500 km of roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are
an integral part of the project.
62.       Equipment and Training.  The project provides for automatic traffic
counters and portable scales, maintenance equipment for culvert cleaning,
mowing, snow removal and structure inspection.
63.       Training of staff and provision of consultancy services to improve
road planning, construction and maintenance operations and strengthening of
the Roads Organizations through the establishment of a Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (PMEU) in each were discussed with the Borrowers during nego-
tiations, and agreement was reached to this e'fect (Loan Agreement Sections
3.02, 7.01(d) and Schedule 2, Part II(B)).
Project Cost and Financing
64.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at about
US$794.6 million or US$699.3 million excluding taxes and duties with a foreign
exchange component of about US$240.1 million. The Bank Loan amount of US$148.0
million would finance about 40 to 80 percent of the total foreign exchange
component of the five participating Republics/Provinces depending on their
respective financial needs.
65.      The following general apportionment of the Bank Loan would be com-
mitted to broad categories of expenditure in the following amounts:



- 25 -
TENTH HIGHWAY LOAN - CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURES
----(US$ m)---
Mid-1979
to Mid-1982
Total
SAP Kosovo
Capital Works
Inter-regional Roads                               7.86
Regional Roads                                    13.14
Equipment                                          0.90
Training                                           0.10
Subtotal                                          22.00
S.R. Montenegro
Capital Works
Inter-regional Roads                               9.24
Regional Roads                                    10.46
Equipment                                          0.20
Training                                           0.10
Subtotal                                          20.00
SAP Vojvodina
Capital Works
Inter-regional Roads                              33.28
Regional Roads                                     2.22
Equipment                                          0.40
Training                                           0.10
Subtotal                                          36.00
Macedonia
Capital Works
Inter-regional Roads                              26.49
Regional Roads                                     8.11
Equipment                                          0.30
Training                                           0.10
Subtotal                                          35.00
Bosnia-Herzegovina
Capital Works
Inter-regional Roads                              31.40
Regional Roads                                     3.10
Equipment                                          0.40
Training                                           0.10
Subtotal                                         35.00
Total                                           148.00



- 26 -
66.       The foreign exchange component of the new civil works included in
the proposed project is based on the assumption that, as in the past, local
contractors will win the awards of construction contracts after international
competitive bidding. A 10% physical contingency has been included to allow
for unforeseen increases in quantities of work in road construction. Price
escalation has been calculated using annual rates of 9 percent in 1977, 8
percent in 1978, 7 1/2 percent in 1979, and 7 percent in 1980 through 1982.
Based on past experience, local and foreign costs have been escalated at the
same rates.
67.       Full commitment of Loan proceeds to the broad categories indicated
(para 65) would be subject to a balanced progress of subproject implementa-
tion in the entire three-year (mid-1979 to mid-1982) program including main-
tenance operation. Although all the subprojects which the Bank would finance
have not been finally identified yet, it is expected that the subprojects
would be selected from the tentative lists mentioned earlier (para 60) and that
commitments would be made in accordance with the table in para 65. A condition
of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (Section 7.01(b)) requires that each of
the participating Republics/Provinces will have adopted regulations authoriz-
ing the construction and financing of their respective road programs, includ-
ing the provision of guarantees to cover possible cost overruns.
General Sector Conditions
68.      Bank participation in the roads sector program is conditional upon
the respective Roads Organizations and other subsector agencies taking mea-
sures on a continuing basis, to maintain and protect the existing road system
and to ensure timely implementation of the road program. These conditions
require the Borrowers to:
(i)  meet physical completion targets for construction/
improvement of the roads included in the program;
(ii)  maintain the existing road network in accordance
with sound engineering and financial practices, and
providing promptly as needed therefore the funds,
facilities, services, and other resources required;
(iii)  implement a program of personnel training as mutually
agreed;
(iv)  procure necessary equipment on an agreed schedule;
(v)  update the road program annually; and
(vi)  continue to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of
vehicles using the roads do not exceed the design 7imits
of the roads.                                       0



- 27 -
Conditions for Subprojects
69.      As a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (Section
7.01(d)), a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) will be established
in the concerned Republican/Provincial Roads Organizations to bring forward
sound subprojects in a timely manner, to monitor their implementation, and to
evaluate their impact. After Loan Effectiveness and before funds would be
committed for specific road construction and improvement, the Bank would
require (Loan Agreement 3.03(b)) substantially completed detailed engineer-
ing, bidding documents and economic analyses based on updated traffic flows
demonstrating the viability of the subprojects which must yield returns not
less than 12 percent. The respective Roads Organization, through its PMEU,
will ensure that for each sub-project being financed from the loan, the
required information is made available to the Bank in a timely manner. The
PMEU will also prepare program and progress reports for submission to the Bank
through the CRO and in due course the Project Completion Report (Loan Agree-
ment Section 3.05(b and c)).
The Loan and Project Execution
70.       For the construction, training and equipment components of the pro-
posed Tenth Highway Sector Project the loan would be made to the Roads Orga-
nizations of Kosovo, Montenegro, Vojvodina, and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the
Socialist Republic of Macedonia in the amounts of US$22.0 million, US$20.0
million, US$36.0 million, US$35.0 million and US$35.0 million respectively
and guaranteed by the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Supervision
of the construction and maintenance works would be effected by the concerned
Roads Organizations themselves, including the Roads Organization of Macedonia,
assisted as in the past by the Yugoslav Consulting Engineers and Technical
Institutes. As under the Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Highway Projects (Loans
Nos. 1143-YU, 1377-YU and 1535-YU, respectively), the CRO would act as fiscal
agent for the project, coordinator of disbursement requests on the Bank, and
act as liaison aggnt between the concerned Republics/Provinces and the Bank
on project-related matters. The CRO would also be responsible for the pro-
curement of traffic counters, road maintenance and load monitoring equipment
and training programs provided for under the loan. For this purpose, the
Federal Government, through its Federal Committee for Transport and Communica-
tions, would ensure that the necessary authority is delegated to the CRO (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(c), Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). The delega-
tion of the foregoing authorities to the CRO by the Federal Government and the
Borrowers would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(c)).
Procurement and Disbursements
71.       Construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement" for all Bank-assisted civil works subprojects. Contracts
would be of such a size as to encourage the participation of foreign contrac-
tors, but yet to permit maximum participation of the local industry, allowing
firms to bid for one or more sections up to their prequalified capacity. Con-
tractors would be prequalified for the works and prequalification procedures



- 28 -
began in November 1978. Bids for the first installment of contracts would be in-
vited around May/June 1979 leading to contract awards to the lowest evaluated
bidders in August/September 1979. Contracts will include a satisfactory price
escalation clause. The equipment to be purchased under the project will be
procured by International Competitive Bidding in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement," giving a preference to domestic manufacturers.
72.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed on the basis of:
(i) 30 percent of total expenditures. representine the estimated
foreign exchange element, for civil works contracts
subject to the maximum amount of Loan commitment to
participating Republics and Provinces; and
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign costs of personnel training,
technical assistance, and equipment.
73.      The proposed loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.
Project Risk and the Environment
74.       The proposed project would be the Tenth in the Highway subsector to
be executed in Yugoslavia. The Roads Organizations concerned with civil works
have all participated satisfactorily in earlier Bank highway projects. Each
entity executes efficiently its annual program of work. It is recognized that
this is the first time that a highway loan is being proposed on a sectoral
basis; supervision of the project will be more demanding in that some of the
normal appraisal operations, such as the economic and technical review of sub-
projects prior to their implementation, will be carried out on such missions.
Insofar as physical implementation is concerned, the Bank's past experience
with the Borrowers does not suggest the presence of any significant risk.
75.       The project is not expected to have an adverse environmental impact.
In fact, by reducing traffic congestion, a reduction in accidents and air
pollution will also result. In some cases the alternative routes to be built
will enhance urban environments by the diversion of heavy traffic.
Project Benefits
76.      The proposed project would support road development in all the less-
developed regions of Yugoslavia and the Province of Vojvodina. Several agri-
cultural and industrial centers which are directly served by the proposed
road programs and which produce the bulk of the underdeveloped regions' out-
put of construction materials, fuels, agricultural commodities, wood and wood
materials and chemical products will receive benefits in the form of reduced
transport costs. The favorable impact of the project will be felt particu-
larly by local traffic and therefore by the farming communities served by
proposed road sections. In several cases the project roads will open new
areas of the country for agricultural development and light processing indus-
tries, and will provide social services in presently isolated remote areas.



- 29 -
77.       The proposed project will also make significant improvements to the
transportation infrastructure of Yugoslavia's most important agricultural
region, Vojvodina, which provides half the wheat, almost two-thirds of the
maize and half the sugar beet, pork and beef sold in the market. The proposed
highway program would improve some of the principal arteries linking the pri-
mary centers in the northern and southern parts of the Province, and would
facilitate the social and economic integration of several important population
and economic centers in the area. Improvement of the east-west Trans-Yugoslav
Highway section within the Province would also eliminate a present bottleneck
to smooth traffic flow between Central/Western Europe and the Balkans/Near
East.
78.      The broad economic analyses of the inter-regional and regional road
network carried out in the concerned Republics and Provinces take into account
savings in vehicle operating costs, road maintenance costs and passenger
travel time (in the case of congested primary roads). Benefits due to in-
creased comfort, convenience and safety have not been considered. These
analyses will be updated and firmed up on a continuing basis with better
traffic flow information becoming available.
Economic Rates of Return (ERs)
79.       Based on the preliminary list of priority sections, the most prob-
able estimates of traffic growth, construction costs and vehicle operating
costs, the proposed investments in the project road sections produce ERs
ranging from 12 to 50 percent in Kosovo; 13 to 19 percent in Montenegro; 18 to
32 percent in Vojvodina; 13 to 21 percent in Macedonia and 13 to 24 percent in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. The weighted average ERs of all civil works in the
proposed Tenth Highway Project accounting for 98 percent of total capital
costs is 22 percent. Subprojects which are technically and economically
viable and which yield rates of return not less than 12 percent shall be
selected by agreement between the Borrowers and the Bank in accordance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement. Further, the subproject pipeline will
be continuously reviewed by the Borrowers in consultation with the Bank on a
rolling plan basis so that, if necessary, it can be adjusted to meet changing
developments. The road improvement and maintenance programs proposed on the
basis of highway master plan studies have a sound rationale and merit early
implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Samoupravna Interesna
Zajednica Za Magistralne I Regional Puteve, SAP Kosovo, Pristina (The Self-
Managing Community of Interest for Arterial and Regional Roads, SAP Kosovo,
Pristina); Republiska Samoupravna Interesna Zajednica Za Puteve, S.R. Crna
Gora, Titograd (Self-Managing Republic Community of Interest for Roads of the
S.R. of Montenegro, Titograd); Pokrajinska Zajednica Za Puteve, SAP Vojvodina,
Novi Sad (Provincial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad); Socijaistika



- 30 -
Republika Makedonija (the Socialist Republic of Macedonia) and Samoupravna
Interesna Zajednica Za Magistralne Puteve, S.R. Bosnia i Herzegovina, Sarajevo
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial Roads, S.R. Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Sarajevo); the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
81.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are described in paragraphs
67, 69 and 70 of this Report and set forth in Section 7.01 of the Loan Agree-
ment. These conditions specify that:
(i)  the Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina and the
Republics of Montenegro, Macedonia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina
have each given a guarantee to cover the financing of their
respective subprojects, including cost overruns, and have
adopted regulations authorizing such construction;
(ii)  a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will be established in the
concerned Republican/Provincial Roads Organizations to bring
forward sound subprojects in a timely manner, to monitor
their implementation and to evaluate their impact; and
(iii)  consents and approvals have been given for the CRO to under-
take the obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement, namely
to act as fiscal agent for the project, coordinator of dis-
bursement requests to the Bank, and liaison agent between the
Borrowers and the Bank on project-related matters.
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 15, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 31 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page  1  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAiES
YUGOSLAVIA                                               /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND Sq. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            255.8                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     144.2                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE fb        REGION fc   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  380.0       840.0    1960.0           1898.8      1796.4      2839.0                                     *
ENERGY CONSUHPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     872.0       1459.0    1930.0           1869.3      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        18.4         20.4      21.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9         35.1       38.7            43.0        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. [M.                        72.0        80.0      85.0             81.4        27.6        55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0        139.0     150.0            135.2       116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          30.7        28.3      26.3             26.2        34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                         63.2         64.3      65.4             63.4       56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    6.1         7.4       8.3              9.9         5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0       0.9              0.8         1.6         2.9
URBAN                               3.6         3.6        2.4             2.2         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.8        21.0       18.2            19.2        27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.5         9.1        9.2             9.0         9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4         1.3        1.3              1.3        1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..            38.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              90.9       100.0      122.5           113.7       103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   115.0       124.0      137.0           127.4       110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           91.0        92.0      97.5             92.8        77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0        29.0       35.4            39.3        22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.5         2.6        1.7              1.6        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    63.7         67.7       68.0            68.9        63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            88.0        55.5       40.5            34.5        38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..            68.3        67.7        83.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            74.3        83.5       100.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            64.4        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..            94.0        70.3        57.8
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            94.0        90.7        99.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..            93.0        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1400.0 /f   1010.0      850.0           686.5      1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1350.0 /f    410.0      450.0           339.0       849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             200.0       170.0      170.0            178.0      275.4       325.8
URBAN                                ..        70.0       70.0            70.0       129.9       250.0
RURAL                                *-      1610.0    1770.0            1770.0      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         17.0      17.0             15.3       18.9         18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0         3.8        3.8              ..         3.9
URBAN                               3.3         3.2        3.3
RURAL                               4.4         4.3        4.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.6          1.4        ..              0.9        0.9
URBAN                               1.7          1.3        ..              0.8        0.8
RURAL                               1.5          1.5        *-              1.0        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              55.4         87.9        ..             57.5       59.2
URBAN                              92.7         98.4        ..             99.0       78.0
RURAL                              36.1         80.1        ..               ..       12.5



- 32 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YUGOSLAVIA                                                A&
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SANE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0         94.0      97.0            108.0        97.6        104.1
FEMALE                91.0        89.0       93.0             99.5       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 34.0         46.0      54.0             62.8        47.8         44.7
FEMALE                24.0        42.0       51.0             63.6       42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 72.0          72.0      73.0             28.2        22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHEP RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         24.0   , 22.0              24.9        25.4         30.6
SECONDARY                          13.0         27.0      36.0             17.3        24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        77.0         85.0         *-             88.3       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         35.0      72.0             90.4        32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         85.0        163.0     193.0            199.0       201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         88.0     132.0            132.5        97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0         85.0       87.0            97.1        70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           4.0        3.9              6.6        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8340.0       8910.0    9150.0 A*
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.4         36.0      36.0             32.4        17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0         41.9      33.8              32.8       38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 17.6         23.8      26.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.0         43.3       43.1             39.1       33.7         40.1
MALE                                 59.6         56.4       56.0             56.7       50.8         55.8
FEMALE                               31.1         30.7       30.1             29.7       12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         0.8        0.8              0.9        1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4 /h       15.1         *-            31.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5 lh       41.4         ..            59.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9 /h        6.6         ..             4.0         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0 /h       18.4         ..            12.9        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..           194.9       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           295.1       448.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..     350.0            309.2       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             18.2       23.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       30.0             24.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d   Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  Ie  High Income  (over $2500 per capita, 1976);
If 1962; / Including about 800 thousand migrant workers working outside; /h 1963.
September, 1978



-33 -                                                                         ANNEX I
DEFINTIONS OF SOCIAL  MIDICATORS                                                        Page   3   of   6
So:  The odluoted group averages for each indicator are popoiation-wsighted gsometric means, excluding the axtreme.values of the indicator and the soat
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries asong the indicators depend  on availability of data And is not uniform     Due to lack of dat.
grop averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of accs., to water and excrets disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
utople population-waighted goo-etria means vithout the seclusion of extree values.
LAND AREA (thoosond sq. kn)                                                                Popuiation per hoopital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total outface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultucal - Moot recent estimate of agricultural ares used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital "'d
or pernooeotly for crops, pastares, mrket and kitchen gardens or to                       hsbilitatioo centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently otaffed by
le  fallot.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
SNP PER CAPITA (CiQ) - CNP per capita estimates At current market prices,                    cal centera not permansotly staffed by a physician (bht by a medical s
culculated by same cooversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acoo-nodation and
1960, 1970, And 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUEPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number  of beds.
(cool and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and bydro-, nuclear And geo-
itormal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total. arban, and rural-
POPULATION AfD VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals  ho. s           ra living qurteral
Total population-,  id-year (iillioun) - As of July 1; if not available.                    snd their main mels   A boarder or lodger my or may 00t be included in
acorage of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                             the household for statistical purposes.   Statistioal definitions of house-
thbar population (percent of total) - Ratin of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
cieo; differont defioitioon  of urbhaa eras  -my affect compa-rbility                  Av.rage number of porsoos per room - total. arban, and rural - Averoge sue-
of dita amonn  coutries.                                                                  ber of persona per room in s11, urban, and rural occupied conventior          lI
Popolatios density                                                                          dwelings, respectively.  Dvellings euclude non-permanent structures and
Per  us. kc. -Mohid-yeor popoletion per square kilomet-r (lOO bectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban. and rural -
Pt s. h-  grcuture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                          Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters ss percentage
only.                                                                                     a f tatl, urban, and rural dwellings reepservely.
Popolution aSg structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yearn), and retired (65 years end over) As procentages of rid-                EDUCA7ION
year populatios.                                                                      Adlusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         At the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-sge
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted fur
Crode birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thous-and of                       different lengtha of primary education; for cou.tries with universal edu-
cid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment my emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent eatimate,                       above the ufficia1 school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Anu.al deaths per thouand of mid-                       Secondary school - total. and female - Computed as  bove; secondary educa-
year populatisn; ten-year Arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
acd five-ypor uverage ending in 1975 for most rscent  satimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructinna for pupils
Gro-  reproduction rate - Avera-e number of daughters A woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are geterally
in her nornal oepr-ductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
sp-cific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocationa1 institutions in-
1970, asd 1975.                                                                            lude technical, industrial, or other pronrala which operate independently
Pa=ilv planning - acceotors. annual (thousanda) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutione.
acceptors of birth-cuotrol devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Tota1 students enrolled in
ploconi.  progran.                                                                        primary And secondary lev-ls divided by numbers of troahora in the carte-
Partly planning - users (percent of married wones) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (Able to read -ad write) as
devices to all married  mo-.n in sass Age group.                                          A perrenatge of total Adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
POOD AND IPTETTION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Inrdo of food production per capita (1970-100) - Inden number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand oopulation) - Passenger caru comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food coseodities.                                       seating less than eight persona; excludes ambulanoes, hearses and military
Pot capita supply cf calories (percent of resuiraments) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per,capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
pet day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lens                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and  hangea in stock.  Nat supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and loeses in distribution.   Re-                  effect; data for recent yearsn my not be cosparable since eost countries
qoirenents t ere eStimAted by FAO based cn physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
ail activity and health considering enviromeental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand populstion) - TV recaivers for broadcast tc generA
weights, age and sen  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excluden unlices-ed TV receivers in coon-
c-nt for waste at household level,                                                        tries snd in years when registration of TV'  -cs was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circola-
capita net supply of food per day,  Net Supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
ahoc.  Requtrrnents for s11 countries esthblilhed by JSDA provide for                     cation devoted pri-orily to  recording gnnera1  -ew.  It is coonidered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein par day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four tilea s week.
of ani=al and pulse protein, of which 10 grams shnuld be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on che number of tickets
Thesr st.odattd  are lower than thone of 75 grmas of total protein and                   sold during the y-ar, includisg admisnions to drive-in cisenan and nobile
23 grams of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO ic the Third World Pood Survey.
Per capto proe nuocly from animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond                   eMPLY7MENT
derived item aoimals And pulses In grams per day.                                     Total labor force (th.u..aid.) - foonnnioslly active persona, including armed
Chried (ates Ii)  ottoity rPaUte (per  thousand) - Annual deaths per thoun-              forcas and unemployed but eocluding housewives, stcdents, etc. Defini-
and ic 0ge group 1-4 ye-rn, to ehildren in this Age group.                               noon in venous. counties Are not comparable.
Pe..Je (percent) - Pemale labor force as percentage of total labor f-rce.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in famicg, forestry, hboting and fishing
Life nopectancy at birth (vears) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
-ecaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construetion, na. ufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                eletricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant nortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infsats under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, msle, snd
coo yesr of age per thous.nd live birhts.                                                'eale labor force a  percentages of tbeir repeotive ppol-oios
Acc-sn  to safe cater (percent of population) - total, urban,  nd rural -                   These are ILOs adjusted participatfon rates reflectisg agr-rec
Nohber of people (tota1, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     utro-tore of the popultion. and lone tine trend.
safe cater nupply (includes treated surface watsr or untreated bht                    Einuomni  dependency racio - Ratio of populactio  u-der 15 asd 65 *nd over to
urcontasinated water such as that from protected boreholen, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
aod nanitary wells) as percentages of their r-apeoti-e popolations.
It en urban area a poblic fountain or stsndpost located not mare                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters fron a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in  -sh end kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable  ccess would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and puoorst 40 percent
Ispl  ohat rho ho.useife or =nabers of she household do not have to                     of ho..aholds.
spend a disproportiorate part of the day in fetching the family's
water crds.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accnssutoaoc'reta discosal (percent nf nonulation) - total, urban. and                  Estimated absolute Dovertv incoe level (US  per cPita) - urban and rural -
-rl - Nunber of people (total, urban, and rural) scrved by o-retn                          Absolute poverty income  level is that in.oe level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Encreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plan essential non-fond requirements is not
disposal aY includ  thre collectioc and disposal, with or without                        affordabl.
ctea-nt, of hocac excrcta aod  asta-water by water-borne systema                      Escimated relative poverty iooe level (USS per capita) -urban asn  rural -
-r thi  cue of pit privies and si=ilar i.stallations.                                    Relative poverty inoose level is that income level less than one-third
Peculation pet physician - Populstion divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal income of the coutry.
uhysiciaco qualified from a nedical school at univra-ity level.                       fatimaat population helov poverty inccne lesel (percest) - arhan and rur-l -
pLzulatloc per cursing Person - Population divided by somber of                            Pernent of population (urban and rural) wbo are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male acd feoale graduste nurses, proctical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichener is greater.
E.conoic and Social Data Diviaio-
Econonic Analysis and Projections Departoent



- 34 -                                    ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
~ 34                          ~                         Page 4 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                       EST.                     PROJECTED
1970          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS/
(US$ mil. at 1975 Prices)
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                    22519.9       30931.9       32138.2       34548.6       36794.2       38817.9       55063.9
Gains from Terms of Trade                         148.9            .0          70.7         -42.3         333.6         372.6         770.7
Gross Domestic Income                          22668.8        30931.9       32208.9       34506.3       37127.8       39190.5       55834.7
Imports                                         6519.8        8831.0         8467.7        9671.5        9620.4       10097.4       13871.1
Exports--Volunie                               -5022.7        -6379.0       -6991.0       -6722.8       -6846.7       -7351.8      -11666.4
Exports--Terms of Trade Adjusted               -5171.6        -6379.0       -7061.7       -6680.6       -7180.3       -7724.4      -12437.1
Resource Gap                                    1348.2         2452.0        1406.0        2990.9        2440.1        2373.0        1434.0
Consumption                                    16339.6        23169.5       22787.7       25958.5       27773.8       29321.4       39903.0
Investment                                      7677.4       10214.4        10827.2       11538.7       11794.1       12242.1       17365.6
National Savings                                6993.2        9182.4        10972.1       10077.7       10961.5       11326.6       16868.1
Gross Domestic Savings                           6329.2        7762.4        9421.2        8547.8        9354.0        9869.0       15931.6
GDP at current US$                             13766.4        30931.9       37466.3       42336.6       47840.3       53581.2      105759.7
SECTOR OUTPUT
(share of GDP at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                                         0.182         0.152         0.160         0.156         0.139         0.130         0.097
Industry                                            0.410         0.480         0.472         0.480         0.485         0.492         0.515
Services                                            0.408         0.368         0.367         0.364         0.376         0.378         0.388
PRICES
(1975 = 100)
Exports Price Index                                51.17        100.00        104.53        116.94        128.66        137.23        198.71
Imports Price Index                               49.69         100.00        103.49        117.68        122.68        130.61        186.40
Terms of Trade Index                             102.96         100.00        101.01         99.37        104.87        105.07        106.61
GDP Deflator                                       61.13        100.00        116.58        122.54        130.02        138.03        192.07
Annual Average Exchange Rate                       12.50         17.39         18.19
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1976-78        1978-85
ICOR                                                4.80          5.32
Import Elasticity                                   0.94          0.91
Average National Savings Rate                       0.30          0.29
Marginal National Savings Rate                     -0.00          0.34
Imports/GDP                                         0.27          0.26
Investments/GDP                                     0.33          0.32
Resource Gap/GDP                                   0.07          0.04
/1 Components may not add up because of rounding.



ANNEX 0
- 35 -                                                            Page 5 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTEaNAL ASSISTANCE
ACTUAL                           EST.                              PROJECTED
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1985
Suimyary of Balance of PavYents
Exports (iscluding NFS)                        3439.0    4437.0    5748.0    6379.0    7308.0    7862.0    8808.9   10088.6   11588.5   13311.8   15291.6   23182.3
Imports (including NFS)                        3822.0    5170.0    8355.0    8831.0    8763.0   11381.8   11802.4   13187.9   14749.4   16497.8   18455.7   25855.2
Reseurce Balasce                               -383.0    -733.0   -2607.0   -2452.0   -1455.0   -3519.8   -2993.5  -3099.3   -3160.9   -3186.1   -3164.1   -2672.9
Net Factor Service Incase                       802.0    1218.0    1423.0    1420.0    1605.0    1736.9    1952.7    1894.5    1810.6    1766.0    1720.9    1826.6
Net Interest Payments                        -156.0    -179.0    -198.0    -275.0    -100.0    -283.1    -269.3    -471.9    -697.8    -892.9   -1097.5   -1530.2
Of =hich on Public Loans                    -63.2      -98.4    -105.3    -127.9    -143.0    -162.2        -85.2      -74.2     -68.8      -74.7      -86.1    -138.3
Direct Investment Income                          .0        .0         .0        .0         .0         .0        .0         .0         .0        .0         .0         .0
Workers Remittanees                           958.0    1397.0    1621.0    1695.0    1705.0    2020.0    2222.0    2366.4    2508.4    2658.9    2818.5    3356.8
Current Transfers                                   .0         .0             .0         .0         .0         .0        .0         .0              .0         .0        .0
Current Account Balance                         419.0      485.0   -1184.0   -1032.0       150.0   -1782.9   -1040.9   -1204.8   -1350.3   -1420.1  -1443.2    -846.2
Direct Private Investnent                           .0        .0         .0        .0         .0         .0        .0         .0         .0         .0         .0        .0
Grants and Grant-Like Flows                         .0         .0        .0         .0        .0         .0         .0         .0                  .0         .0         .0
Public liediu  and Long-Term Loans
Disbursements                                   426.7      448.8      448.9     610.0      556.1      286.8     -62.4      -61.4       20.9      67.0       88.2       95.2
Amortization                                    -154.3    -208.7    -288.1    -316.9    -159.7    -322.0        -127.3   -104.1       -18.6       11.1      55.5       22.5
Net Disbursements                                272.4     240.0      160.7     293.2      396.4      -35.2     -189.7   -165.5         2.3      78.2      143.7      117.8
Other Medium- and Lone-Term Loans
Disburne=ents                                   1055.3    1216.1    1108.1    1492.9    1863.4    2592.2    2705.8    3309.7    3317.5    3819.5    4365.0    5042.9
Amortization.                                   -566.0    -635.5    -681.9    -633.4    -976.2   -1034.1   -1405.0   -170d8.1   -1708.8  -2185.6  -2738.6  -3855.1
Net Disbursements                               489.3      580.6      426.2     659.5      887.2    1558.1    1300.8    1601.7    1608.8    1633.9    1626.4    1187.9
Ule of tHY Resources                              18.2     -73.6      140.9      19.7      189.0         .0        .0         .0         .0        .0         .0         .0
Short-Tern Capital                              -97.0    -205.0       263.0     -87.0      -27.0      280.0         .0        .0         .0         .0        .0         .0
Capital N.E.I.                                 -408.7    -437.7    -109.8       -12.6        6.4         .0         .0        .0         .0         .0         .0        .0
Changes in Reserves                             -693.2    -589.4      297.1     159.3  -1602.0        -20.0     -70.2    -231.4    -260.8    -292.0    -327.0    -459.4
Reserves (end of period)                        731.0    1338.0    1147.0       896.0   2075.0       2069.0    2139.2    2370.6    2631.4    2923.4    3250.3    4486.0



- 36 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
DEBT AND CEDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976
Medium- & Long-Term Debt (Disbursed only)
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD)(end of period)                3439.9        4278.7        4921.5         5818.0        7145.6
Including Undisbursed                                      4728.6        5543.5        7705.3        8805.7         9696.7
Public Debt Services                                       -217.5        -307.1        -393.5         -444.8        -302.7
Interest                                                  -63.2         -98.4        -105.3        -127.9        -143.0
Other Medium- and Long-Term Debt Service                   -638.2        -746.4        -822.6         -989.7       -1134.7
Total Debt Service                                         -855.7       -1053.5       -1216.1       -1434.5        -1437.4
Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                                           24.9          23.7           21.2          22.5          19.7
Debt Service Ratio-L                                         19.5           18.1          16.5          17.8          16.0
Debt Service/Gross Domestic Product                           5.4            5.2           4.5           4.6           3.9
Terms
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                               3.9           4.9            5.0           4.8           3.1
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                 24.9           24.6          24.7          24.7          20.1
Dependency Ratios for Medium- & Long-Term Debt
Gross Disbursements/Imports                                  38.8           32.2          18.6          23.8          27.6
Net Transfers/Imports                                        16.4          11.8            4.1           7.6          11.2
Net Transfers/Gross Disbursements                            42.3           36.7          21.9          31.8          40.6
Exposure
World Bank Disbursemtents/Gross Total Disbursements            3.5           3.0           5.8           7.3           4.9
World Bank & IDA Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  3.5                3.0           5.8           7.3           4.9
World Bank DOD/Total DOD                                       9.2           8.2           8.6           9.6           9.2
World Bank & IDA DOD/Total DOD                                9.2            8.2           8.6           9.6           9.2
World Bank Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     3.7           3.6           3.6           3.9           4.7
World Bank & IDA Debt Service/Total Debt Service               3.7           3.6           3.6           3.9           4.7
/1   Including workers' remittances.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January 31, 1979)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-two Loans fully disbursed                                  567.6
777     1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water  45.0    15.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                   Tourism               20.0      0.3
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      1.6
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      1.9
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline         59.4    20.7
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                  Roads                 30.0      0.3
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       0.7
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          0.9
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways              93.0    23.4
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion    44.0    12.0
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     4.6
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit              50.0    19.1
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                 40.0     9.1
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline              48.4    12.5
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    13.3
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage            45.0    36.7
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control              38.0    30.6
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit               50.0    20.6
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0         53.3
"Metohija"



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries           26.0     24.2
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      22.9
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                   56.0     27.3
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic               Transmission         80.0     69.6
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      73.2
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways             100.0    100.0
1535     1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia         Roads                80.0      67.2
1561     1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine        Hydro Power           73.0     69.1
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      40.0
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      20.0
1613     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      20.0
1614     1978   Investiciona Banka           Fourth Industrial
Titograd                    Credit              20.0      20.0
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0      82.0
1621/a   1978   Privredna Banka,             Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                   Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      55.0
Total (less cancellation)                             2,117.5    967.6
of which has been repaid                              225.2
Total now outstanding                                 1,892.3
Amount sold                              8.2
of which:  Amount repaid              7.4               0.8
Total now held by Bank                                1,891.5
Total undisbursed                                                967.6
/a   Not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1979)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation       -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry            7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler             Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry         13.8    3.4      17.2
1972/78 Sava/Semperit                         Tires            11.3    3.8      15.1
1973   Belisce/Bel                            Pulp and Paper  13.3       -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0       -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                    Steel            50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrija Smrznute          Food and Food
Hrane                                Processing        4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.7    2.6      18.3
1978   Soko Mostar                            Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
Total Gross Commitments                                147.6   24.9    172.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                              76.1    2.6      78.7
Total commitments held by IFC                           71.5   22.3      93.8
Total Undisbursed                                       24.5    6.7      31.2



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. The main dam
is completed and the reservoir is now filled. A small part of the irrigation
network has been completed with the remainder expected to be completed by
1980. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates, but the overrun
financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal
sources. Delays have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary
adjustment. Consultants have been engaged to help find solutions, and the
Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate legislation. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist
in the provision of agricultural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks. The 1978 season was good. A further exten-
sion of the Closing Date, from December 29, 1978 to June 30, 1979, has been
necessary to permit disbursement of the small balance of the loan (approxi-
mately $300,000) earmarked for the final payment against a computer instal-
lation scheduled for spring 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission:  US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project construction has progressed slowly, but has virtually
been completed, about two years late. Its cost has increased to about $428
million (up 90 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The resulting
cost overrun is being financed from funds received from the Federal Republic
of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources. Appoint-
ment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recom-
mendations have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the
Borrowers and implementation of many of the recommendations is underway.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 42 are completed, one is under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed to October 31, 1979, to permit comple-
tion on disbursements to suppliers of equipment.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end-1979.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized. An EDI type training course
was given in Yugoslavia in October 1978. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, was postponed to June 30, 1979 to permit com-
pletion on disbursements to suppliers of equipment which is expected to be
delivered in the first quarter of 1979.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements accelerated after a slow start. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978,  was postponed to June 30, 1979 to allow full
utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements to equipment
suppliers.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. Tariff increases approved in 1977 and 1978 and institutional develop-
ments, including improved investment planning and management, the formation of
COIs and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
have resolved the major problems. Rate of disbursement, initially behind
schedule, is now improving. Undisbursed balance of $24.6 million is fully
committed.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the project has progressed well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, most of the project
has been completed, about six months behind schedule. The railway facilities
and grain silos are scheduled for completion by early 1979 and end-1979,
respectively.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date:  June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has now been com-
pleted. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Ninety-two percent of the loan has been committed.
Disbursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational
and learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the year and, as of February 14, 1979, 64 percent of the loan
proceeds were disbursed.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia is on schedule but progress in Montenegro is somewhat
slow owing to contract delays. Nevertheless, all road works should be com-
pleted by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a one year slippage in the completion will occur. The
revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there will be a cost
overrun of about 45 percent because of required changes from original project
components and increases in local costs. The Borrower has taken steps to
obtain supplementary financing from various sources both foreign and local.
The economic viability of the project remains sound.  Upon review of the award
of a site preparation contract in one case, and the procurement procedures
regarding a telemetry supervision control system in another case, the Bank
concluded that the procurement procedures were not in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000 and
$112,000, respectively) that would have otherwise been eligible for disbur-
sement were cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished, has been reviewed
by the Bank and discussed with the relevant Yugoslav authorities. The
flood control and water quality studies are underway after initial delays
in selecting consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has begun.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the
remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice.
Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway, ani in Titovo
Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign assistance to
local consultants. The pilot irrigation components which were delayed pending
the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The
creation of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to
the longer than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav
parties concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Morava Region Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
severs have been awarded and construction is underway. Tendering for the
sewage treatment plant has begun and award is expected shortly.
Loan 11764 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
_976; Effective Date:  May 31, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Gas is scheduled to be available in Sarajevo by end 1979, one year
later than originally planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the
supplv of gas were the the major cause of delay. All contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high pressure loop-line, as well
as for gas transmission line, have been awarded and construction is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed except
for a small part of the Kosovan bank's portion for which a project has been
submitted to the Bank. Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal
estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants, with the assistance of foreign consultants, have
been retained as project consultants and are proceeding with final designs on
the project components and preparation of bidding documents. Two local con-
struction contracts have been awarded as well as the major contract for the
construction of the dam. Overall project progress is about six months behind
schedule.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries:  US$26.0 milli-n TLoaa
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule.  ICB procurement for the winery
has been completed; the procurement for the cold stores is in progress.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for five out of seven agro-industrial sub-projects have
been approved by the Borrower. Eleven sub-projects in the individual sector
have been approved committing 34 percent of loan proceeds.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has been
completed by the consultant awarded. The studies on Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs are substantially complete. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 70 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution has started with the most critical sub-stations and
lines. Submission of the least cost development study and tariff study is
imminent.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit:  US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and
indicated that funds will be committed faster than under the first project.
As of December 31, 1978, 15 percent of loan proceeds were committed.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracting has progressed somewhat faster than expected and the
majority of the loan has already been committed.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded for a road section
in Croatia.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 55 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan became effective November 16, 1978.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Dates: November 14, 1978; Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans became effective November 16, 1978.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major contracts for construction of the dam, alimentation canal and
main canal have been let and are expected to be awarded soon.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is April 30, 1979.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
project:                               Fourteen months (July 1977-
September 1978)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    1. Roads Organization of Kosovo;
2. Roads Organization of Montenegro;
3. Roads Association of Vojvodina;
4I". Roads Organization of Macedonia;
5. Roads Organization of Bosnia and
Herzegovina;
6. Institute for Highways, Belgrade;
7. Institute of Social and Environment
Economic Research, Titograd;
8. French Consultant, BCEOM, Paris
9. Environmental Planning Institute
(Ohrid);
10. Faculty of Civil Engineering,
University of Skopje;
11. Zavod Za Saobracaj of the Civil
Engineering Faculty, Sarajevo.
(c)  First presentation to Bank:            February 1978
(d)  First Bank mission to consider
the project:  Preappraisal             February 1978
(e)  First Appraisal mission
departure:                             August 1978
(f)  Negotiations substantially
completed:                             February 12, 1979
(g)  Loan effectiveness planned:            July 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank will maintain close cooperation with the Borrower in order
to review the project pipeline annually and to ensure that follow-up action
is taken by the Borrower to firm up the next phase (up to 1985) of the road
program based on prevailing traffic trends.



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III: Special Conditions
As conditions of effectiveness,
the Borrowers:
(i)  will have given a guarantee covering the financing of their
respective mid-1979 to mid-1982 road programs including possible
cost overruns (para. 67);
(ii)  will have adopted the legal authority for constructing the roads
detailed in their development programs (para. 67);
(iii)  will have delegated authority to CRO to act as fiscal agent for
the project, as coordinator of disbursement requests on the Bank,
as liaison between the Borrowers and the Bank on project-related
matters, as coordinator of the personnel training programs and
to procure the equipment to be provided under the project (para.
70); and
the Roads Organizations:
(iv) will establish a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit within each of its
organizations to bring forward sound sub-projects in a timely manner
and to monitor implementation of these sub-projects and evaluate
their impact (para. 69).






IBRD 13850
M                                     5                                                                   D   fi A  0;4     $ $ t R I ^ : 0 A. V <, 0 g w . q i f I R
<sesemst r S z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~951,  0    H-S                                                                                                                                                                             X          0 A A00( 
OA O                                                                 iSK  .-*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        st  A   ,,. A ga  S  .   ._  3    
l  <   |  l   K   z<< * mA t ot o ! X . g .  Z                                                                                                                                 r g   .   '     r               0               A          ,  tT
___ Other (Iot #4044B                                                                                                                                                                                           W                                                                                R
G d D R /~~~~~~ A                                                              7        <=9fA  Y    _t/9
_. I>C J4S0044    Iows  boood4oer                                                                             0,A004A400g  ~A0A.At04   044~
.                                         r* A1)
r                                                                    ~~                                                                            S  KTO /T    l alJoc                                                                         W7E                                                   1'A f
AK                                                                                                                 -     ) % ]sTbii|Si                                                    s v.                                                     f           Si                                  r 
i C 8ttX                                                              I>tvc-- zJ                             \            tf   f'  9Pee                                               XPR1511$slA              '    I)                  |              [,~~~~~~~~~~~~(01 L
E  ..vL J   U B LJ  <>t   gVo
' U U SM mv N k XJ y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
L C L t 7,: , ~.- .A    ' \  t1  _    n 
K.   .                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ad   rLtzJUXf              5t
' 4 tJ n rA a Cf l p, 0 0 t ' Y 0 N M <is_ %[< /.
rU  A U     L  i S     S AiLA FAE t  Fr  n  &_                                                                                              \    i  &_        1      0   ntEt              ( )                    \t                    l Z-              mi5
. . ., ilrrni . C:.'.S L - : i i S AU SU } . . A ' N | A A L{lX                                                          D,da  .
qi f r:L . S(3a : , , jRA X  h 8 w .1E  Ej Lj ,,. t >(  -6.
A A                      v)e ~      , ,Kl rr ,,,, ... :kw   Xg@A
R Ej$  QV --  E*  zjRr rr S  wg  
A ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~                                                                         Al     ......         5..t                        .: ,2r,z   
1~~~~~~~~~~~~ rA               t  ;    \LFLrE2fEg 



