Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 E
Report No. 231Oa-YU
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF AP'PRAISAL REPORT
THE TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
March 15, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     = Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
Din. 1                            = US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                        = US$55.5
Din. 1,000,000                    = US$55,555
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                       British/US System
1 meter (m)                      = 3.808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer  (km)                = 0.214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)         = 0.3861 sq. mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)             = 0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT      -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
COI       -  Communities of Interest
CRO       -  Council of Republican and Provincial Roads
Organization
CYR       -  Community of Yugoslav Railways
EDI       -  Economic Development Institute
ER        -  Economic Return
FYBR      -  First Year Benefit Ratio
GNP       -  Gross National Product
MEU       -  Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
O-D       -  Origin and Destination
RTE       -  Railway Transport Enterprise
RUC       -  Road Users Charges
SAP       -  Socialist Autonomous Province
SR        -  Socialist Republic
TYH       -  Trans-Yugoslav Highway
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



YUGOSLAVIA                    FOR OFFICiAL uat O>LY
APPRAISAL OF
A TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................                           1
A.   The Transport  System ........................                        1
B.  Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination  .                         3
C.   Institutional Framework .....................                         4
D.  Previous Projects  ...........................                         6
II.   THE ROAD SUBSECTOR ...............................                          7
A.   Road Transport  .....       ..................                        7
-  Traffic  ...................................                       7
-  Trucking Industry .........................                        7
-  Vehicle Regulations  ......................                        8
-  Road User Charges  ........................                        8
B.   Infrastructure  .....       .................                         9
-  Administration  .....        ...............                       9
-  Planning  .................................                       11
-  Investment and Financing  ....             .............          11
-  Engineering  ..............................                       11
-  Construction  .............................                       12
-  Maintenance  ..............................                       12
-  Training .................................                        12
III.   THE ROAD PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT  ....              ............           13
A.   General        ..................... ................                13
B.  Objectives  ..................................                        14
C.  Project Preparation and Methodology  .........                        14
D.   The Project Regions - K:osovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina, Macedonia and Bosnia-
Herzegovina   ................      .. .............                15
-  The Projects - An Overview  ........ .......                      15
-  Characteristics of the Program ....             .......           18
- Characteristics of Each Region including
assessment of its Institutional Capacity,
Financial Capability and Economic
Viability    ........    21
(i)   SAP Kosovo  ........        ...................            21
(ii)   SR Montenegro  .         .......................           27
(iii)   SAP Vojvodina  ......          .................           34
(iv)   SR Macedonia  .... .            ...............            41
(v)  SR Bosnia-Herziegovina  ....          ...........          48
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Ganguli (Economist), R. Mulligan and
B. J. Sisson (Highway Engineers) on the basis of an appraisal mission to
Yugoslavia during September 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution ancl may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othierwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                       Page No.
E.  The   Loan   ....................................        56
F.  General Sector Conditions ....      ...............      58
G.  Conditions for Subprojects ....      ..............      59
H.    Implementation   ..............................        59
I.    Disbursements   ...............................        61
J.  Project Risks and the Environment ...........            62
IV.  RECOMMENDATIONS .................................            63
ANNEXES
1.  Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
2.  Study of Road User Charges - Terms of Reference
3.  Outlines of Terms of Reference for Highway Master Plan Study
4.  Economic Analysis of Road Program
5.  Progress Reporting Requirements
6.  Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
7.  Project Implementation Schedule
8.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
9.  Equipment to be Procured from the Loan
10.  Proposed Training Program
MAPS
1.  IBRD 13850  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Yugoslavia Project Area
2.  IBRD 13878  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Kosovo - Traffic Flows
3.  IBRD 13882  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Kosovo - Surface Type
and Proposed Subprojects
4.  IBRD 13851  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Montenegro - Traffic
Flows
5.  IBRD 13879R - Yugoslavia Higwhay Sector Project, Montenegro - Surface
Type and Proposed Subprojects
6.  IBRD 13852  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Vojvodiria - Traffic
Flows
7.  IBRD 13880  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Vojvodina - Surface
Type and Proposed Subprojects
8.  IBRD 13853  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Macedonia - Traffic
Flows
9.  IBRD 13881R - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Macedonia - Surface
Type and Proposed Subprojects
10.  IBRD 13854  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Bosnia-Herzegovina -
Traffic Flows
11.  IBRD 13883  - Yugoslavia Highway Sector Project, Bosnia-Herzegovina -
Surface Type and Proposed Subprojects



YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
General
1.01     Yugoslavia is a socialist federal republic consisting of six Repub-
lics 1/ and two Autonomous Provinces. 2/ During the past decade, governmental
authority and administration, previousLy concentrated in the Federal Center,
was decentralized to the Republics and Provinces, which have gained consider-
able autonomy over their affairs, including decisions on transport infrastruc-
ture investments.
1.02     Two main factors have influenced the development pattern of Yugos-
lavia's transport network. First, topography has dictated the use of the
broad river valleys as transportation corridors, with the result that the
country's principal road/rail links follow the fertile Sava/Danube flood
plains on an approximate northwest to southeast alignment. The southern and
coastal mountains have proved formidable and costly obstacles to transport
development in the transverse direction and it is the misfortune of some
of the less-developed regions of Yugoslavia that they have the added burden
of expensive access routes either to the coast or to the hinterland.
1.03     Secondly, for historical reasons, the northwestern and central
regions of the country achieved levels of development in some sectors, trans-
port included, on a par with western Europe. On the other hand, in the poorer
regions to the south the pace of development was much slower.
1.04     Moreover, Yugoslavia's geographical location is such that it is an
important crossroads in the European transport system. It provides access to
the sea for many of its northern neighbors, and is as well an important link
in the east/west route between Europe and the Middle East.
1.05     Small wonder, then, that transport is a dynamic sector of the
Yugoslav economy. The system is well diversified (Map 1); there are 7 major
ports, nearly 10,000 km of rail lines, 100,000 km of roads, 15 airports (10
catering for international flights) and a sizeable network of inland water-
ways. Pipelines, also have come into increasing use in recent years. Govern-
ment's broad aim is to ensure the balanced development of all modes of trans-
port to meet the needs not only of Yugoslavia's own market-oriented economy,
1/   Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia.
2/   Kosovo and Vojvodina.



- 2 -
but to improve the country's integration with the world economy. The attain-
ment of regional balance in economic development has also been an explicit
objective of the Government. Increasingly emphasized is the improvement o.
transport links between the economically-advanced and the less-developed
Republics and Provinces and within the less-developed areas.
1.06     Roads and railways are the backbone of the transport system but
traffic growth for these and other modes has been rather uneven. During the
last 10 years the freight traffic (ton-km) on railways increased by about 3%
per annum compared to an increase of about 12% per annum on highways. The
passenger traffic on railways remained practically unchanged during the same
period, in contrast with an increase of about 20% per annum on highways. As
a result, road transport has gained in relative importance and has replaced
rail transport as the dominant carrier. The railways, however, continue to be
the main carrier of bulk commodities over relatively long distances for key
industries. River transport has retained an important place, carrying about
10% of total freight traffic. Ports have more than doubled their cargo handl-
ing since the early 1960s and currently move about 20 million tons per annum.
1.07     However, improvements to the highway network have not kept pace with
the growth of road traffic. Many roads are by modern standards inadequately
designed both in geometry and pavement capability. With high traffic volumes,
unacceptable levels of traffic congestion often result. In general, most of
the roads are inadequate for the traffic they are now carrying.
Special Features of the Project Areas: Kosovo, Montenegro, Macedonia,
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Vojvodina
1.08     The SAP Kosovo, the most underdeveloped and densely-populated region
of Yugoslavia, is difficult of access from most of its neighbors. Within the
Province also, many rural settlements still have no all-weather connections
with market centers, resulting in opportunities for trade, commerce and
employment being foregone. Thus, without an adequate road network, Kosovo
cannot easily break the chain of lagging development, over-population and
poverty.
1.09     On account of their geographic positions, S.R. Montenegro and S.R.
Macedonia are major potential outlets to the Adriatic sea and the Middle East
for central and eastern Yugoslavia. The improvement of the inter-Republican
systems, therefore, would stimulate national and international trade and, to
some degree, counter their physical disadvantage in being comparatively remote
from Yugoslavia's mainstream of economic activity. As in the case of Kosovo,
improvement of the intra-Republican networks of these less-developed regions
would serve to integrate more closely their outlying communities with market
centers, so that opportunities for trade and employment would be enhanced.
1.10     The rugged, broken terrain of SR Bosnia-Herzegovina is a serious
impediment to the development of its transport networks. Constructing roads
through the mountains that cover most of the Republic is costly and fraught
with difficulty; in consequence the Government needs to devote a much higher
proportion of its budget to road and rail development than do the other more



- 3 --
fortunate Republics with easier terrain. Despite its central location in
Yugoslavia as a whole, the Republic's networks are relatively unimportant to
international commerce, as the principaL Adriatic ports are not best served by
its main north/south route. Nevertheless, its networks are important to both
inter- and intra-Republican interests, and the deficiencies of these networks
remain an impediment to the economic development of the Republic.
1.11     Unlike its four co-borrowers under these loans, SAP Vojvodina enjoys
a higher standard of development. Although its well-watered, rolling terrain
favors agricultural production (30% of its 1976 GNP), industry is expanding
rapidly and has now overhauled agriculture as the growth sector of the econ-
omy. In line with this development, intra-regional traffic has been growing
rapidly and the network needs expansion and modernization to keep pace with
it. Vojvodina also enjoys a favorable strategic situation in Yugoslavia,
having the country's main border with Hungary and also Romania; indeed, the
Province's spinal E5 route is a principal north-south artery of the European
network, linking Yugoslavia's northern neighbors to the sea. It is also a
vital communications link for Vojvodina.
B. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.12     Since the mid-1960s the administration of Yugoslavia has steadily
moved towards decentralization of decision-making, with enterprises (busi-
nesses or companies) operating under workers' management in a market-oriented
economy. During the late 1960s and in line with this policy, the principal
responsibility for transport within Government was transferred from Federal
to Republican/Provincial authorities. In 1975 the Federal Secretariat for
Transport was replaced by a Federal Committee, whose Chairman and Vice-
President are Federal officials, and whose other members are the Republican
and Provincial officials responsible for transport. This committee has
now been left with a mainly coordinating function as Governmental respon-
sibility is being transferred to Communities of Interest (COIs).  Each COI
consists of one or more transport enterprises and their users, and their
authority is normally confined to one Republic or Province.
1.13     The transfer of authority to the "grass roots" agencies and transport
organizations has increased the number of decision-making bodies, and has made
the country-wide planning and coordination of transport more difficult, espe-
cially coordination between road and rail. Until recently there has been
no overall, clearly stated transport policy, although the basic rationale
for one is implicit in the country's main economic principles: free choice
by users and competition in a market economy among autonomous transport
enterprises. In late 1976, however, with a view to creating the necessary
conditions for integrated development of transport, the Federation, the
Republics and the Autonomous Provinces mutually agreed to establish a long-
term transport policy for the country. Since then considerable progress has
been made in this direction, and the authorities have concluded Social Agree-
ments on the various aspects of future transport policy.



- 4 -
1.14     According to these Social Agreements, the Government's principal
objectives for the transport sector are: (i) to build up a transport inf--a-
structure in support of the developments taking place in other sectors of
the economy; (ii) to develop the various modes of transport as an integrated
network and in such proportions and combinations as will meet the total
needs of the economy at minimum cost to the community; (iii) to open up
less-developed regions and foster interdependence and economic integration of
the regions of the country; (iv) to provide the national network with adequate
facilities for connection to the networks of neighboring countries; and (v) to
rationalize the use of energy in transportation and to reduce the negative
effects of transportation on environment.
1.15     Many of these goals, such as attaining regional balance in economic
development, bringing the rural communities closer to the main stream of
development, and improving integration with the world economy, have always
been stated objectives of the Yugoslav Government. The Social Agreement
especially emphasizes the development of a door-to-door public transportation
system at least cost to the economy. It is hoped that such a system would
attract greater public use than "own-account" transport, and would encourage
the formation of an optimal structure of the overall transport system based on
economic principles.
1.16     To these ends, the authorities intend to encourage the use of rail
and water transport for long- and medium-distance commodity hauls and of road
transport for short hauls. Priority is to be accorded to railway and air
transport for transportation of passengers on medium and long distances.
Given the availability of two or more parallel transportation routes (railway
lines, rivers, highways), highway transport should be used to complement and
integrate with other transport modes. A standard methodology is to be estab-
lished to assess the allocation of resources to all branches and forms of
transport infrastructure, commensurate with the utilization and relative
advantages of each. Much of the success in translating the transport policy
into a concrete action program will depend on the effectiveness of the decen-
tralized decision-making process.
1.17      The basic principle of the transport policy and coordination will
continue to be free competition in the market and the main policy instruments
will be pricing measures.
C. Institutional Framework
1.18     The Yugoslav authorities are keenly aware of the need for a sound
institutional framework within which various transport agencies and enter-
prises can collaborate effectively. The Bank has provided some stimulus in
promoting these institution-building policies, resulting in:
(i) the establishment of the Federal Committee (originally
a Secretariat) for Transport and Communications;



- 5 -
(ii)  the establishment of the Secretariats or Committees for
Transport in most Republics and Provinces;
(iii)  the establishment of the Council of Republican and
Provincial Roads Organization (CRO); and
(iv)  strengthening the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR).
1.19     In the past one of the Bank's main objectives in Yugoslavia's trans-
port sector has been the development of the local skills needed to operate
the modal institutions. Under the Third and Fourth Highway Loans (Loan Nos.
608-YU and 678-YU) the laws and decrees related to the highway subsector were
reviewed, the organizations for road miaintenance and their operations were
overhauled and improved, and traffic counting, which earlier had been rudi-
mentary, was reorganized on a systematic and planned basis. Subsequent high-
way and railway loans (Loan Nos. 751-YU, 990-YU, 1026-YU, 1143-YU, 1377-YU)
provided technical assistance in the formulation of standardized guidelines
for the preparation of feasibility studies, personnel training, action plans,
highway master plans and other important studies like those for road users'
charges and rail costs. These latter two complementary studies are designed
to establish an appropriate basis for developing a policy framework (including
tariffs) which would permit the orderly economic development of the transport
sector, and are expected to provide a firm basis for the efficient and eco-
nomic utilization and coordination of transport facilities. Both studies are
now in progress; the Road User Charges Study should be completed by March 1979
and the Rail Costs Study towards the end of 1979.
1.20     Until now the Bank's highway projects in Yugoslavia have largely
involved lending for an ad hoc selection of discrete road sections proposed
by various Republics/Provinces.  Reaching agreement on a specific package
to be financed under a particular highway loan has not been easy, and has
always been time-consuming for all concerned--Government as well as Bank
staff. Conflicting demands of eight Republics and Provinces have had to be
reconciled within Government, and the Bank's economic criteria met. In the
process, the needs of the less developed regions have often had to defer to
those of the more developed, where the requirements of traffic have been more
pressing.
1.21     This procedure clearly needed overhaul.  Instead of a country-wide
comparison of subprojects contending for Bank financing as was previously the
situation, now, under the proposed sector lending approach, subprojects within
a particular Republic/Province would be compared one with another and ranked
according to economic priority. This procedure would ensure that critically
needed investments in regional, secondary and feeder roads, so essential for
the less developed regions to cater for and induce economic development in the
outlying areas are not obscured by the visibly more pressing needs of the
arterial networks. Accordingly, with the encouragement of the Bank and the
Yugoslav authorities, each of the concerned administrations of the less-
developed Republics/Provinces has prepared a highway master plan from which
has been developed a relatively firm three-year investment program with
priorities ranked according to broad economic criteria. All five master



plan studies have been prepared on the basis of common methodologies, and,
Ior  *    first Lime in Yugoslavia, each constitutes a systematic and objective
analysis of the highway sector needs (institutional as well as in infrastruc-
ture) of the Republic/Province concerned. These plans, therefore, usher in
a new era in Bank lending in highways to Yugoslavia, as they form the basis
of the sector loan to the five Republics/Provinces which this document
appraises. Sector lending is now recognized in Yugoslavia as a natural
progression from the Bank's earlier "section-by-section" lending.
1.22      The thrust of future transport sector lending will be to consolidate
progress in institutional development and to foster intermodal coordination.
The Road User Charges and Rail Costs Studies and the Highway Master Plan
Studies (paras. 1.19 and 1.21) are not "one-shot" efforts, but must be con-
tinuously updated. Necessary institutional facilities, therefore, must
be developed progressively for obtaining the management information in a
systematic manner and on a continuing basis. The Bank has been deeply
involved in institutional development and would continue to assist and
expedite improvements in this field in cooperation with concerned agencies.
D. Previous Projects
1.23     The proposed project would be the 17th in the transport sector and
the 10th in highways. The Bank has lent US$856 million equivalent to the
transport sector, including US$356 million for nine highway projects, US$348
million for five railway projects, US$108 million for two pipeline projects
and US$44 million for the Bar Port Project. Out of the nine highway projects,
five have been successfully completed so far; all the roads in the sixth
project are also open to traffic and the remaining projects are well in hand.
Government's execution of the highway projects has been generally satisfactory.
Brief details of all transport projects are in Annex 1.
1.24      In general, the main problem encountered in the highway projects has
related to land acquisition where unforeseen difficulties have delayed con-
struction. Authority has now been so decentralized that groups such as the
Communities of Interest can appeal and overturn decisions on alignment and
right-of-way, after they have been taken at a higher level. There appears no
easy solution to this problem (Audit Report No. 1632 dated June 1977), but
greater consultation between all groups concerned is being sought to achieve
more soundly-based decisions. Further, some Republics are operating some road
sections financed by the Bank as toll roads. The imposition of tolls on a
relatively uncongested road can inhibit its use to a suboptimal level. In
Yugoslavia, therefore, the Bank has consistently emphasized the need to study
the probable effects of imposing tolls, so that they may be set (if at all) at
a level which would not impede the optimum use of the roads (Audit Report No.
1385, dated December 1976). The loan agreements for subsequent road projects
have included a clause to this effect where relevant. In the currently pro-
posed highway sector programs, however, there are no specific proposals to
levy tolls.



- 7 -
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. Road Transport
Traffic
2.01      In the past decade road transport has developed rapidly; the number
of cars has increased about threefold, and the numbers of trucks and buses
have almost doubled (Table 2.1). Freight and passenger traffic on the network
(in ton-km and passenger-km) has likewise increased about two to three times
during the same period. Most of the vehicle fleet increase was met from
domestic production. Where a decade ago local manufacture of cars and trucks
was about equal to imports, now annual domestic production is about three
times higher than the total annual imports. Although private car ownership
is steadily rising as per capita incomes grow, motorization in the different
regions of the country varies widely, but in line with their states of devel-
opment.  For example, Slovenia, the most developed Republic has six inhabit-
ants per car, whilst Kosovo, the least developed, has about 100 inhabitants
per car.
Table 2.1: ROADS AND ROAD TRANSPORT
Trucks
Length                           and                          Ton/Km
of Paved  Passenger              Truck    Passenger/Km    (billions)
Network      Cars      Buses   Trailers   (billions)   Enter-    Own
Year        (km)       ('000)     ('000)   ('000)   Bus         Car  prises  Account
1970        24,214        721       15        189   14.1       18.4    6.7      11.1
1971        27,350        875       16        211   16.7       22.4    7.3       11.8
1972        29,910      1,000       18        230   18.4       25.6    8.1       13.6
1973        32,590      1,141       18        252   21.4       27.6    8.5      14.9
1974        35,459      1,333       19        288   23.4       31.8    9.8      16.0
1975        38,699      1,537       20        307   25.9       37.1   10.5      17.5
1976        41,144      1,732       21        336   27.8       42.2   11.2      18.8
1977        43,500      1,934       22        360   29.8       47.0   11.9      20.1
1978        46,000      2,130       23        390   32.0       52.0   12.7      21.5
Source:  Federal Bureau of Statistics and mission estimates.
Trucking Industry
2.02     The trucking industry is highly competitive.  In 1977 there were
about 200 specialized transport enterprises each with an average of 150 trucks
and buses. These enterprises account for about one-third of freight traffic
by road. Social Sector enterprises operate their own fleets of trucks in many
cases, accounting for about two-thirds of total road freight transport. The
average haul of "own-account" freight traffic is about 25 km.



-8-
Vehicle Regulations
2.03     Basic regulations controlling traffic in Yugoslavia are contained in
the 1970 Traffic Law.  They are primarily safety-oriented and focus mainly
speed and load limitations. The maximum permitted loading is 10 tons on a
single axle and 12 tons on tandem axles for vehicles using all inter-regional
and regional roads. If conditions of particular roads and bridges are sub-
standard, a special Republican/Provincial Commission can impose different
loading limits as appropriate. Similarly, on public roads except main high-
ways, maximum speeds are limited according to the different categories of
motor vehicles (80 km/hr for buses; 70 km/hr for trucks exceeding 7.5 tons,
80 km/hr for motor cars towing a caravan, etc.). There are also restrictions
on the movement of trucks over selected routes during weekends and holidays,
especially during the main tourist season. Otherwise there are no restric-
tions on vehicle movements between different Republics and Regions. Moreover,
there is no discrimination between vehicles of foreign and domestic registra-
tion in the application of these regulations.
Road User Charges
2.04     In Yugoslavia the total revenue from road user charges was estimated
for the first time in 1970 and amounted to Dinar 3.3 billion (US$183 million).
This amount exceeded the total expenditures on highways during that year of
Dinar 2.6 billion (US$144 million). Since then, although both the revenue
from road-user charges and the expenditure on roads have each increased about
three to fourfold, the same preponderance of revenue over expenditure still
persists. But even where the road user charges may cover overall costs, there
may not be a direct relationship between specific user charges on different
types of vehicles especially heavy trucks and the infrastructure costs for
which they are accountable. For example, heavy trucks normally consume diesel
fuel which attracts less than half the tax than does gasoline in Yugoslavia.
Yet heavy, diesel-fueled vehicles inflict the greatest damage on the pavement
structures. If user charges were brought into line with a vehicle's capab-
ility to distress road pavements, possible changes in traffic flows within and
between different transport modes might result. To clarify this situation
with respect to road transport in Yugoslavia, a comprehensive study on road-
user charges was commissioned from consultants (para 2.06) at the end of 1977
as a component of the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) with financial
support from the Bank. An outline of the terms of reference for the study is
in Annex 2.
2.05     The study would examine particularly the fiscal, economic and admin-
istrative aspects of the present system of levying road user charges, taxing
vehicles, and allocating resources to the highway subsector in Yugoslavia, and
would assist authorities in reviewing present policies and problems concerning
the level of road user charges and their distribution to meet road infrastruc-
ture costs. The study would also seek to promote efficient and economic util-
ization of existing and proposed highway facilities.
2.06     The contract for the study has been awarded to Kirilo Savic Insti-
tute, Belgrade, assisted by Dorsch Consult (W. Germany) and the Atkins Group



- 9 -
(UK).  Three progress reports and an Interim Report have been issued which
were reviewed, and which indicate satisfactory progress. A draft Final Report
is expected by March 1979. During Loan negotiations the Borrowers confirmed
that in accordance with the Loan Agreement for the Eighth Highway Project
(Loan 1377-YU), the Federal Committee for Transport and Communications will
review the study findings with the ]3ank and will agree with the Bank which
recommendations shall be implemented.
B. Infrastructure
Administration
2.07     The main responsibility for highway administration is now centered in
the Republics and Provinces (para. 1.12), with the Federal Government playing
a role now confined to common policy and regulatory matters such as the
control of vehicle weights and dimensions, road safety, and the international
aspects of highway administration and road transport.
2.08     At the Republican and Provincial levels, authority for administering
regional and inter-regional roads outside the boundaries of communes (urban
and municipal areas), is vested in the Republican or Provincial Road Organiza-
tions. These organizations are governed by "Boards" on which are represented
members of various groups each with an interest in roads, such as transport
companies, industrial enterprises, agricultural cooperatives, professional and
road user organizations. The membership of these Boards is usually large, so
the members elect Executive Boards which are responsible not only for day-to-
day administration, but also for the preparation of proposals for highway
development. These proposals are correlated through the planning system with
the plans from other sectors, screened, and submitted for approval to the
Republican or Provincial Governments. Purely local roads are under the juris-
diction of local communities which have special departments for this purpose.
In cities, the planning authorities are viewing with growing concern the
problems resulting from increasing vehicle use, and are seeking ways and
means to rationalize the use of all transport facilities especially through
the development of public mass transport. In an effort to relieve urban areas
of through traffic, recent Bank-financed highway projects have included the
construction of bypasses of towns and cities.
2.09     Coordination among the Road Organizations is provided through the
Republican Assemblies, the Federal Committee for Transport and Communications,
and the CRO.
2.10     The organization of highway administration has changed repeatedly
during the postwar years. As an example, at present the physical planning and
administration of the road plans of Macedonia are handled by the Republican
Road Council, which replaced the Republican Road Fund about three years ago.
The Council is governed by a board of members and is headed by a Secretary
(Chart) aided by a professional staff of 22 engineers, 3 economists, 4 lawyers
and various technicians. This organization is expected to evolve further to
include road user groups, and to become an "Association for the Communities of
Interest for Roads." The Communities of Interest, it is understood, would



YUGOSLAVIA
Organization Chart of the Road Council of S.R. Macedonia
l      ~~S.R. Macedonia|
_  X      ~Executive Council  
Secretariat for
Traffic & Communication
Road Ins ection                                                                l
Council for
Road Construction, Maintenance
and Reconstruction
Secretary
of the Road Council
Department for        Department for                             Department for    Department for
Development of      Supervision of Road    Department for          Budget &             General
Road Network         Construction &           Maintenance         Accounts         Administration
Reconstruction



- 11 -
further promote increased citizen and user organization participation in the
decision-making process. It should be recognized, however, that the organiza-
tion of the highway subsector is complex, that the highway administration is
still in a period of transition as a result of the continuing decentralization
process, and no firm long-term plans on highway investment are as yet avail-
able. However, medium range highway master plan studies (covering the period
up to 1985) for the Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina, on which
work commenced during 1977/78, have been financed by the Bank. Similar
studies have also been substantially completed in the other less-developed
regions in Yugoslavia, namely, Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina,
and form the basis of the currently proposed Bank Sector Loan to Yugoslavia.
Planning
2.11     Five-Year Highway Plans are prepared by the Road Organizations,
coordinated with the plans for other sectors by the Republican or Provincial
Assemblies. Inter-Republican roads are planned on the basis of agreements
among the respective Republics and Provinces.
Investment and Financing
2.12     Highway expenditures have increased steadily over the last decade
from about Dinar 1.4 billion (US$78 million) in 1967, to about Dinar 10 bil-
lion (US$556 million) in 1977. However, inflation eroded a substantial por-
tion of the increased outlay and in real terms the highway expenditures did
not keep pace with the rapid growth of highway traffic. Overall highway
expenditures for new construction and upgrading in 1977 amounted to about 72%
of total highway expenditures, with the remaining 28% earmarked for highway
maintenance.
2.13     The Federal Government's role in highway financing has been phasing
out since 1970, when it was decided that the Federation should cease its
participation and only carry out obligations under previous commitments. In
1977, the Federal Government's remaining contribution to highway financing was
only about 2% of the total expenditure. The main source of highway financing
is the revenue from taxes on gasoline and diesel oil, license fees, and the
revenues from taxes paid by foreign motorists on entering Yugoslavia. A pro-
portion of these revenues is earmarked for road development and maintenance
purposes. In the year 1977, earmarked revenues covered only about 40% of the
total expenditures for those purpose!s, and the balance of the outlay on high-
way development and maintenance was made up from IBRD and domestic loans
(24%), contributions by the Republics, Provinces, Communes (21%), the Fund
for Less Developed Regions (4%), contributions by the Federal Government (2%),
and other sources (9%). Since the earmarked revenues cover only about 40% of
the total expenditures, the road development plans of the Road Organizations
depend heaviLy upon budgetary allocations, public loans, bank credits and
voluntary contributions.
Engineering
2.14     Preinvestment studies of highway projects are generally commissioned
by the Road Organizations from either local or foreign consulting firms and



- 12 -
are, from the Bank's experience, satisfactorily executed. The subsequent
design of the projects and the supervision of their construction is usually
carried out, also satisfactorily, by the Road Organizations who may enlis' e
support of competent Yugoslav consulting engineers and technical institutes.
Construction
2.15     Road construction and improvement is normally executed by means of
unit-price contracts. As a rule, participation in bidding for locally financed
projects is limited to the domestic contracting industry, which is capable,
highly competitive, and sufficiently aggressive to continue winning contract
awards outside Yugoslavia. Contracts for Bank-financed projects, however, are
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement"; such bidding for past highway projects, however,
has resulted in the participation as a joint-venture partner of one foreign
contractor only, an indication of the competitive edge the local industry has
on 'its own ground. Quality of construction work is generally of a high
standard.
Maintenance
2.16     Road maintenance is carried out on the basis of yearly contracts
negotiated between the Road Maintenance Enterprises and the Road Organiza-
tions. The Maintenance Enterprises are deployed widely in each Republic or
Province, enabling, in general, prompt and effective maintenance to be carried
out. Expenditures for highway maintenance in 1977 amounted to about Dinar
60,280 (US$3,350) per km for the highway network maintained by the Republics
and Provinces, an adequate allocation. The generally satisfactory standard
of road maintenance in Yugoslavia indicates the capabilities of the Roads
Organizations and Maintenance Enterprises, and that adequate budgetary allo-
cations for road maintenance have been made during the last few years.
Training
2.17     Yugoslavia is a country with well-developed educational and voca-
tional training institutions. The highway transport sector is staffed with
competent professionals and technicians. There is, however, need to spread
technical and professional skills to the less-developed areas of the country,
and, a need to update the knowledge and skills of engineers and managers in
highly specialized fields and to provide economists with training in trans-
portation and in the preparation of feasibility studies. Once trained,
Yugoslav personnel put their skills to effective use, and adapt their systems
to appropriate technologies and analysis methods.
2.18     The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 751-YU) was the first to incorporate
a training element and this provision has also been included in later proj-
ects. In the Fifth Highway Project, training was of two kinds, (i) short-
term (up to four months) fellowships and seminars abroad for engineers and
economists, and (ii) on-the-job counterpart training through consultants in



-- 13 -
the preparation of feasibility studies.  In the Sixth Highway Project, train-
ing included: (i) further fellowships abroad, and (ii) seminars and courses
in Yugoslavia including an innovative EDI-type course with simultaneous
translation services in the Serbo-Croatian and the English languages.
2.19     The impact of training has been considerable on the highway organiza-
tions of Yugoslavia in developing their capabilities in preparing feasibility
studies, traffic analyses, transporlt costing, and highway development programs
in general. With the benefit of this learning they have recently compiled
detailed master plans for highway development in five Republics and Provinces
and these have been well prepared. Following the initial assistance from the
Bank's EDI, the CRO hopes to continue with EDI-type courses on its own on a
regular basis.
III. THE ROAD PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01     In the past, to conform with Government's development objectives, and
with priorities set by Social Agreements, previous Bank lending in the trans-
port sector has, with minor exceptions, focussed on the needs of the main
transport network; all eight Republics and Provinces have benefitted from
these loans.
3.02     Now, to accord with the transport policy objectives recently arti-
culated in the Social Agreements mentioned earlier (para. 1.14), increased
emphasis is being given to projects which would improve the lot of the less-
developed regions. Better transportation is recognized as a stimulus to
development in most other sectors, but to reach outlying communities, many
of which have poor access to centers of commerce, not only inter-regional
roads, but also regional and feeder roads should be included in programs for
construction and improvement (para 1.21). Thus, there has followed accept-
ance of the need for each Republic/Province to assess its total requirements
in the highway subsector in a comprehensive operation based on a highway
master plan study.
3.03     The lead in this respect was taken by SAP Kosovo which covenanted
under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU) to prepare with Bank financing
such a highway master plan study following Terms of Reference (Annex 3) agreed
with the Bank. This study was carried out by Yugoslav design institutes
assisted by the French consultant BCEOM and from it has been prepared a devel-
opment program with investment priorities ranked according to broad economic
criteria.
3.04     Other Republics and Provinces have followed suit using the Kosovo
Terms of Reference as a model for their own work. SAP Vojvodina also took
advantage of Bank financing and employed Yugoslav design institutes assisted
by the French consultant BCEOM to assist in preparing its highway master plan



- 14 -
and development program. The Republics of Montenegro, Macedonia and Bosnia-
Herzegovina used their own resources and the assistance of the various Yugoslav
Fo^4, ^aI institutes (consultants) to prepare highway master plan studies and
development programs for their own regions. The quality of all five studies
has been high, and reflects the growing competence of the Yugoslav design
institutes.
3.05     The short-term focus of all five development programs is the period
up to 1985, although the long-term plan perspectives differ, ranging from 1990
(Kosovo) to the year 2000 (Macedonia). All five short-term programs are in
keeping with the ability of each of the respective Republics/Provinces to
finance, and within its institutional capability (with some improvements
where needed) to implement. The project currently appraised in this report
is to meet a part of the foreign costs of a three-year tranche, mid 1979 to
mid 1982, of all five development programs.
3.06      Thus, this project represents a significant step forward in the evolu-
tion of Bank lending to Yugoslavia in the highway subsector (paras. 1.20, 1.21).
B. Objectives
3.07      The main objectives of the 1979-85 Road Programs are to:
(i) support agricultural and industrial development plans,
and to increase the coverage of social services through
a balanced development of main, secondary, and feeder
roads, such development programs being within the finan-
cial and technical capabilities of the governments con-
cerned;
(ii) ensure adequate maintenance of the existing highway net-
work;
(iii) strengthen, as needed, through technical assistance and
training, the operations and administration of the Road
Organizations so as to improve the implementation of,
and their capability to monitor the road programs; and
(iv) reinforce efforts made under earlier projects to foster
the development of a stable and effective domestic
contracting industry by providing greater assurance
of a sustained level of investment over the next few
years, and to develop the capabilities of local
consulting organizations.
C. Project Preparation and Methodology
3.08      Since 1963, the Bank has made several loans to Yugoslavia which have
included highways in the five Republics/Provinces which will participate in



- 15 -
the currently-proposed sector loan. These five Republics/Provinces have also
invested considerable amounts on their own account during this period for
the development of road networks in their territories. During this long asso-
ciation, substantial progress has been achieved in the various aspects of high-
way planning and development; in particular, the respective Road Organizations
have evolved adequate systems of project preparation in cooperation with
Yugoslav consultants (Institutes).
3.09     More recently, in order to improve the quality of road programming,
an attempt was made in all the five participating Republics/Provinces to take
an overview of the road system as a whole, irrespective of the categories
in which individual roads fall. Thus, in each Republic/Province, a highway
master plan covering the period up to 1985 (with relatively more firm informa-
tion up to 1982) has been prepared on the basis of comprehensive analyses and
the examination of the various factors affecting road traffic on the entire
road network under its jurisdiction. The roads concerned are primarily inter-
regional and regional, and are classified in categories 1, 2 and 3. Purely
local (Class 4) roads for which communes are responsible, were not included in
the study.
3.10     Initially an inventory of the existing highway network was prepared.
The inventory included an assessment of the condition and capacity of indivi-
dual links and of their utilization in terms of traffic flows (Maps 2, 4, 6, 8
and 10). For the future, traffic growth on the network has been estimated on
the basis of earlier relationships between production, consumption and the
traffic needs of the different communles/traffic zones. Since 1970 socio-
economic data at the level of communes has been systematically collected and
this information has been of great value in the projection of future traffic
flows. The growth of inter-Republican (inter-Provincial) traffic was based
on earlier trends adjusted where appropriate, to take into account the effects
of new and firmly planned developments. The new investments proposed to
facilitate traffic flows have been decided on (Maps 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11) after
taking due account of operational anti policy improvements in the subsector
as well as developments in complementary modes of transport, where they are
relevant.  The methodologies and approaches used in the economic analyses are
applied uniformly throughout Yugoslavia. These are based on the Bank-financed
(Loan 751-YU) "Guidelines for the Preparation of Highway Feasibilty Studies",
and are outlined in Annex 4. Although all the sub-projects which the Bank
will finance have not yet been finally identified, those which are technically
and economically viable and which yield rates of return not less than 12%
shall be selected by agreement between the Borrowers and the Bank in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Loan Agreements.
D. The Project Regions
The Projects - An Overview
3.11     The proposed projects provide for direct participation by the Bank
in a three-year (mid 1979-mid 1982) tranche of the 1979/85 highway development



- 16 -
programs of the five participating Republics/Provinces (Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina, Macedonia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina - Map 1). These programs which
have been developed from the findings of Highway Master Plan Studies prepared
by each of the Borrowers, cover: the construction of new roads; the recon-
struction and rehabilitation of existing roads; the purchase of specialized
equipment to assist the Roads Organizations in monitoring traffic and in
acquiring and processing data related to the operation of the networks of
inter-regional and regional roads; and personnel training to assist the Roads
Organizations in improving their standards of administering and maintaining
their road networks.
3.12      In summary, Bank assistance to the five Republics/Provinces would
be allocated as follows:



-- 17 -
Table 3.1: TENITH HIGHWAY PROJECT
-----   US$ (m)----------           Bank's
Estimated Cost                        Local    Foreign       Total    Participation
(a) SAP Kosovo
(i) Inter-regional roads         26.87      11.46       38.33            7.86
(ii) Regional roads               44.44       19.10       63.54          13.14
(iii) Equipment                      0.00       0.90        0.90           0.90
(iv) Training                       0.10      0.10         0.20           0.10
Subtotal                     71.41      31.56      102.97          22.00
(b) SR Montenegro
(i) Inter-regional roads         27.27      11.69       38.96            9.24
(ii) Regional roads               31.27      13.40       44.67           10.46
(iii) Equipment                     0.00        0.20        0.20           0.20
(iv) Training                      0.10       0.10        0.20            0.10
Subtotal                    '58.64      25.39       84.03          20.00
(c) SAP Vojvodina
(i) Inter-regional roads        106.73      45.74      152.47           33.28
(ii) Regional roads                 7.19       3.01       10.20           2.42
(iii) Equipment                      0.00       0.40        0.40           0.40
(iv) Training                      0.15       0.10        0.25            0.10
Subtotal                    1:14.07     49.25      163.32          36.00
(d) SR Macedonia
(i) Inter-regional roads         86.08      36.89      122.97          26.49
(ii) Regional roads               26.04      11.17       37.21            8.11
(iii) Equipment                      0.00       0.30        0.30           0.30
(iv) Personnel Training            0.10       0.10        0.20           0.10
Subtotal                    1:L2.22     48.46      160.68          35.00
(e) SR Bosnia-Herzegovina
(i) Inter-regional roads        180.90      77.55      258.45          31.40
(ii) Regional roads               17.19       7.37       24.56           3.10
(iii) Equipment                     0.00       0.40        0.40           0.40
(iv) Personnel Training            0.10       0.10        0.20           0.10
Subtotal                    198.19      85.42      283.61          35.00
Total                       554.53    240.08       794.61         148.00
Source:  Republican/Provincial Roads Organizations and mission estimates.



- 18 -
3.13      Before turning in detail to the programs of each of the five
Republics/Provinces, many program attributes are common to all and are given
below.
Characteristics of the Program
3.14      The investment programs embody the principal findings of the highway
master plan studies, tailored to meet the Republics'/Provinces' capability to
implement them and their financial constraints. The programs are considered
realistic; project priorities have been identified so that any possible delays
in execution can be accommodated by postponing the lower priority subprojects
to the next phase of the program (after mid-1982).
Retroactive Financing
3.15      There will be no retroactive financing of on-going road contracts
as these will have been entered into before mid-1979, the estimated time of
loan signature, and will have been financed in full from the Borrowers' own
resources.
Cost Estimates
3.16      Basic cost estimates of the programs have been prepared by the con-
cerned Road Organization(s) in consultation with Yugoslav and foreign consul-
tants on the basis of quotations and experiences on similar projects. The
subprojects are taken from a three-year time slice of a relatively homogeneous
investment program.   Completion of detailed engineering to the extent that
the first year's contracts can be awarded has been considered adequate to
allow construction work on the program to begin, and to provide a satisfactory
basis for refined cost estimates for the remainder of the program.   Further
engineering for additional links scheduled later in the program would be done
sequentially.
Contingencies and Price Escalation
3.17      A 10% physical contingency has been added to the cost estimate for
road construction.   Price escalation has been calculated using annual rates
of 9% in 1977, 8% in 1978, 7 1/2% in 1979 and 7% in 1980 through 1982. Based
on previous experience, local and foreign costs have been escalated at the
same rates. During loan negotiations, the project cost estimates were dis-
cussed and confirmed with the Borrowers.
Foreign Exchange Component
3.18      The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been estimated
assuming as in earlier projects that local contractors would win the awards
of construction contracts after international competitive bidding. This com-
ponent has declined from about 40% to the present 30% of total capital cost
of civil works over the past 10-15 years, indicating the country's increasing
self-sufficiency in this sector.



- I9 -
Program Flexibility
3.19      The list of specific subprojects financed in any year may be revised
based on technical, planning, or policy criteria resulting from implementation
of the sector loan. Changes in traffic flows and development patterns may
occur which could change priorities over the three-year (mid 1979 - mid 1982)
time span of the programs.
3.20      The project pipeline will be reviewed annually by the Borrowers in
consultation with the Bank on a rolling plan basis.
Other Program Components
3.21      The proposed three-year (mid 1979-mid 1982) programs, apart from
civil works, provide funds for equipment such as automatic traffic counters
and portable or fixed vehicle weighing scales, maintenance equipment for
mowing and snow removal where necessary, and equipment for pavement evalua-
tion and structure inspection (Annex 9). This equipment is being provided to
assist the Roads Organizations in monitoring the operation and utilization of
their networks. Road maintenance is executed by contract in Yugoslavia (para.
2.16) and the equipment is not of the types which these contractors would
normally use. Funds for training and technical assistance are also included
to provide through seminars, scholarships and the services of consultants,
updated knowledge for engineers and economists. The training component is
considered an integral part of the program to upgrade the administration and
operations of the Roads Organizations. A summary of the training program
proposed is shown in Annex 10.
Design Standards
3.22      The design standards to which new road construction and road
improvements will be carried out under the development programs are shown in
Table 3.2. They are applied throughout Yugoslavia and have been accepted
by the Bank over the past several highway projects. They are appropriate to
the proposed project.



- 20 -
Table 3.2: DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECT ROADS
Inter-regional roads               Regional roads
Type of                                        Moun-                           Moun-
Terrain        Unit      Flat      Hilly    tainous    Flat         Hilly    tainou.;
Design
Speed        km/hr    100-        100-         80-       80-         80-        40-
120        120        100       100         100          80
Maximum
gradient       %         2.0         6.0        9.0       2           6          9
Road width
(min.)         m       lx7.5      lx7.5      lx6.0    lx7.5         lx7.0      lx6.0
2x7.5      2x7.5
Width of
emergency
lane           m         2.5        2.5         -         -           -
Width of
shoulder       m       2x1.3      2x1.3      2x1.05   2x1.3         2x1.3      2x1.05
Horizontal
curves         m    2,000-    2,000-          700-    2,000-        700-       400-
700        700        400        700        400         100
Vertical
curves
Summits         m   50,000-   50,000-   20,000-   18,000-   15,000-    4,000-
18,000    18,000    12,000    12,000    10,000           3,000
Sags            m   40,000-   40,000-   18,000-   12,000-   10,000-    2,000
12,000    12,000    10,000    10,000         8,000
Maximum
single
axle load    Ton        10         10          10         10         10         10
Type of
wearing
surface        -   Asphalt/  Asphalt/  Asphalt/  Asphalt/  Asphalt/  Asphalt/
Concrete  Concrete  Concrete  Concrete/ Concrete/ Surface
Surface   Surface   dressing
dressing  dressing
Design of structures in compliance with Din 1,072 standard.
Source: Republican/Provincial Roads Organizations and mission estimates.



- 21 -
Characteristics of Each Region
Kosovo
The Investment Plan 1979 to 1985
3.23                Planned program expenditures for 1979 to 1985 are summarized below
along with 1972 to 1978 actual expenditures for comparison in constant 1977
prices. About 10% of capital expenditures programmed relate to on-going works.
The total program costs are estimated at Dinar 4,778 million (US$265 million).
The foreign exchange component of the capital works is estimated at approxi-
mately Dinar 1,157 million (US$64 million).
Table 3.3: ACTUAL AND PROPOSED ROAD EXPENDITURES
Dinar Million                                              US$ Million
Actual                     Proposed                       ActualProposed
1972-1978i-'                 1979-1985                    1972-1978-1/                 1979-1985
In 1977       In Current   In 1977    In Current   In 1977    In Current   In 1977                   In Current
SAP Kosovo                          Prices-/         Prices       Prices        Prices)/    Prices.2          Prices       Prices         Prices!/
Caital
Road Construction/
Improvement
(i) Inter-regional  roads            477.5            341.1        452.0          678.0          26.5           18.9         25.1           37.7
(ii) Regional roads                 1,667.5          1,191.1    2,047.0          3,070.5          92.5            66.1       113.7         170.6
Equipment                               66.1             47.2         64.0           96.0           3.6            2.6          3.6           5.4
Training and Technical
Assistance                             -               -            8.0            12.0           -               -          0.4            0.6
Subtotal               2,211.1          1,579.4    2,571.0          3,856.5         122.6            87.6       142.8         214.3
Recurrent
Road Maintenance
(i)  Inter-regional roads            135.7             96.9        160.0          240.0           7.6            5.4          8.8          13.2
(ii) Regional roads                   295.5            211.1        320.0           480.0         16.4           11.7         17.8          26.7
Administration and
Planning                            163.7            116.9        134.4          201.6           2.6            6.5          7.4          11.1
Subtotal                594.9            424.9        614.4          921.6          26.6           23.6         34.0          51.0
Total                 2,806.0          2,004.3    3 185.4          4,778.1        149.2           111.2        176.8         265.3
1/ Figures for 1978 are budget estimates.
2/ Includes overall price escalation of 40% based oni prevailing price indices.
3/ Includes overall price escalation of 50% based oni the estimated price rise.
Source: Provincial Road Organization and mission estimates.



- 22 -
3.24      Kosovo is one of the land-locked Provinces of Yugoslavia.  Hemmed
in bv mountains, its main links with its neighboring republics are constrained
to river gorges or mountain passes. Its isolation is one reason that Kosovo
is the least developed of all Yugoslavia's Republics and Provinces. However,
notwithstanding its relative isolation, a more cogent reason for its slow pace
of development is the fact that communications within the Province are also
poor; particularly in winter, some communities are isolated from the rest
of the country. Of the 1,430 communities dispersed throughout the Province,
over 80% contain less than 1,000 inhabitants, yet all need to be integrated
in Kosovo's all-weather road network. Kosovo, therefore, was taken as the
model province for the Bank's first operation in highway sector lending in
Yugoslavia.
3.25      The program resulting from Kosovo's master plan study focuses on
the construction of 465 km of roads, of which 148 km are inter-regional and
317 km are regional. About 40 km of this total represents on-going projects
to which the present Road Council is already committed. The program also
covers the maintenance of approximately 1,800 km of roads, about 1,100 km of
which are paved. The main components of the program are strengthening and
widening of paved roads, maintenance, construction, equipment, organization
and training.
3.26      The standard of road maintenance in Kosovo has been poor.  Although
maintenance works are executed by contract, the Roads Organization has been
ill-equipped to define the program needed and to supervise the work. Conse-
quently, key elements of the development program are the establishment of
three regional maintenance centers from which works will be more closely
planned and monitored, the purchase of certain particular items of equipment
needed by the Roads Organization to monitor use of the roads (vehicle scales,
traffic counters, etc.), and personnel training, to improve the levels of
planning and implementation capabilities within the Organization and to make
current staff au fait with modern techniques and practices.
Three Year Projects - Mid 1979 to Mid 1982
3.27      The three year program consists of the mid-1979 to mid-1982 slice
of the investment plan which is summarized below:



- 23 -
TABLE 3.4: THREE YEAR PROGRAM (MID-1979 TO MID-1982)
Dinar Million                US$ Million
SAP Kosovo                     Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
Inter-regional              379.7      162.7   542.4    21.1         9.0      30.1
Regional                    628.3      269.3   897.6    34.9        15.0      49.9
Subtotal /1             1,008.0      432.0 1,440.0    56.0        24.0      80.0
Contingencies
Physical 10%                101.0       43.0   144.0       5.6       2.4       8.0
Escalation 17.34%           174.8       74.9   249.7       9.7       4.2      13.9
Construction Total         1,283.8      549.9 1,833.7    71.3        30.6    101.9
Equipment                      0.0        14.4    14.4      0.0       0.8       0.8
Contingencies 10%              0.0         1.8     1.8      0.0       0.1       0.1
Equipment Total                0.0        16.2    16.2      0.0       0.9       0.9
Training/Technical
Assistance                   1.2        2.8      4.0      0.1       0.1       0.2
Subtotal                1,285.0      568.9 1,853.9    71.4        31.6    103.0
Recurrent
Road Maintenance /2
Inter-regional               80.0        0.0    80.0       4.4       0.0       4.4
Regional                    160.0        0.0   160.0       8.9       0.0       8.9
Maintenance Total           240.0         0.0   240.0    13.3        0.0      13.3
Administration and
Planning /2                   67.2         0.0    67.2      3.7       0.0       3.7
Total                     1,592.2      568.9 2,161.1    88.4        31.6    120.0
/1   Construction cost estimates are of January 1979.
/2   The table gives no breakdown of the foreign costs of recurrent items; the
loan is based on the costs of capital works only.
Source: Provincial Road Organization and mission estimates.



- 24 -
The proposed Bank assistance of US$22 million would support the first phase
of the road program and would provide about 70% (22 - 31.6) of the foreign
exchange component of the capital works. Although specific subprojects
(civil works) which the Bank wi'll finance have not been finally identified,
it is expected that commitments will be made in accordance with Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: PROPOSED ROAD CONSTRUCTION/IMPbOVEMENT TARGETS
Total
Mid 1979            Mid 1980             Mid 1981             Mid 1979
to                  to                   to                   to
Mid 1980            Mid 1981             Mid 1982             Mid 1982
SAP Kosovo                                      Km    Dinar ml/   Km    Dinar ml/   Km    Dinar mil    Km    Dinar ml/
A.  Inter-regional Roads
I.  Strengthening/Rehabilitation
1.  Kos.Mitrovica - Pristina                 -        -                             38.0        54.0     38.0       54.0
2.  Podujevo-Merdare                         -        -                              8.0         8.4      8.0         8.4
3.  Urosevac-Doganovic                       -        -           -        -        10.0        32.4    10.0         32.4
4.  K.Polje - V.Slatina                      -        -           -        -         8.0        20.4      8.0        20.4
5.  Laplje Selo-Urosevac                     -        -         8.0       26.4      14.0        45.6     22.0        72.0
6.  Leposavic-K.Mitrovica                    -        -          -         -        35.0       120.0    35.0        120.0
Total I.                                    -        -         8.0      26.4      113.0       280.8   121.0       307.2
II.  Strengthening com Widening
1.  Pristina - Laplje Selo                  5.0      42.0       5.0       42.0        -         -        10.0       84.0
2.  Laplje Selo - Stimlje                   9.0     84_0        8.0       67.2        -         -        L7.0      152
Total II.                                14.0      126.0      13.0    109.2          -         -        27.0      235.2
Grand Total A.                           14.0      MO        5.0-Q    135.6      113.0      280.8   148.0         42
B.  Regional Roads
t. Strengthening/Rehabilitation
1.  K.Mitrovica - G. Klina                   -        -           -        -        16.0        16.8    16.0        16.8
2.  V.Krusa - Pirane                         -        -           _        _         4.0         4.8      4.0        4.8
3.  Labljane - Gracanica                     -        -          _         _        18.0       27.6    18.0         27.6
4.  Bistrazin - Zrze                         -        -          -         -         5.0         9.6      5.0         9.6
5.  Zur - Dragas                             -        -         7.0       16.8        -        -          7.0       16.8
6.  Pec - Decane                             -        -           -        -        14.0        32.4    14.0        32.4
7.  D.Kormiljane - Konculj                            -          -        -          5.0       12.0       5.0       12.0
Total I.                                   -         -           0      16.8       62.0      103.2    69.0        120.0
II. Strengthening rumn Widening
1.  Gnjilane - Klokot                        -        -           -                 15.0        74.4    15.0        74.4
2.  Orahovac - Zrze                        5.0       19.2       5.0       19.2        -        -        10.0        38.4
3.  K.Mitrovica - Stari Trg                6.0       72.0       2.0       24.0        -        -         8.0        96.0
Total II.                                11.0       91.2        7.0      43.2      15.0        74.4    33.0       208.8
III. New Constructiona
1.  Lebane - Milosevo                       -         -           -        -         6.0        50.4     6.0        50.4
2.  Vitina - Grlica                        8.0       63.6       6.0       48.0        -        -        14.0       111.6
3.  Gnjilane - Presevo                    10.0       60.0       6.0       36.0        -        -        16.0        96.0
4.  Srbica - Klina                          -         -        10.0       72.4      16.0      116.0    26.0        188.4
5.  Crnoljevo - Komorane                    _         _         _          _        17.0      122.4    17.0        122.4
Total lII.                                18.0    123.6       22.0    156.4        39.0      288.8    79.0        568.8
Grand Total B.                7c  D3   214.8                  16.X      216.4    116.0       466.4   181.0        897.6
Grand Total A + Grand Total B            -423     jA34.8_   _57.0    352.0    229.0          747.2   329.0          440.0
1/ In January 1979 prices
Note: Appropriate provision for physical and financial contingencies has been
included in Table 3.4   for the three year program but has not bees detailed
for each subproject pending their finalization.
Source: Provincial Road Organization and mission estimates.



- 25 -
Cost Estimates
3.28      The estimated costs of the three year program are given in Table
3.4. The foreign exchange component of the capital expenditure is estimated
at US$31.6 million.
Assessment
Institutional Capacity
3.29      The Roads Organization, although below the standard of the other
Republics in its capability to organize its road maintenance contract activi-
ties (para 3.26), has, nevertheless, shown in previous Bank-financed projects
its ability to organize the planning, design and construction supervision of
its capital works. Comparison of expenditures in constant price terms on
Table 3.4 envisages a modest expansion of road construction, rehabilitation,
improvement and maintenance which would require some additional manpower and
training to enable the Organization to administer it efficiently. The local
contracting industry is capable and well-organized and is expected to accom-
plish the proposed targets under the improved supervision of the Road Council.
Financial Capability
3.30      Kosovo has the resources to meet the local costs and the residual
foreign cost components and the demonstrable ability to perform the work.
Funds firmly identified, Table 3.6, cover 57% of the proposed project costs.
However, not so far included are contributions from municipal authorities and
working organizations which have yet to be finalized.



- 26 -
TABLE 3.6: FINANCING THE ROAD PROGRAM
---Dinar m--------US$ m ---
/I          /2           /81/2
1976/7&L-  1979/81   1976/78-1  1979/8-
Sources                             (3 Years)  (3 Years)  (3 Years)  (3 Years)
1. Funds of working organizations               9.4                      0.5
2. Compensation from gasoline
and fuel                                193.7        240.0         10.7        13.4
3. Compensation from the funds
for developed areas                     500.0        600.0         27.8        33.3
4. Local funds (municipal
contributions)                           81.1                       4.5
5. IBRD loans                                  59.3        396.0          3.3        22.0
Total                                   843.5      1,236.0         46.8        68.7
/ll   1976/78 figures are based on actuals for 1976 and 1977 and the best
possible estimates for 1978.
/2   Estimated figures for 1979/81.
Note: Figures relate to calendar years, tentative estimate for mid-1979
to mid-1982 is of the same order as 1979/81 calendar years.
Source: Provincial Road Organization.
Economic Viability
3.31       The Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo serves as the j'uncti-on
of two extremely important natural communication lines, a north-south link
running from Belgrade towards Skopje and an east-west link connecting the
Black Sea and the Adriatic Sea. The territory, therefore, has an important
transit role. The topographical features that determined the pattern of
Kosovo's transportation network a decade ago resulted in an uneven coverage
of the Province. The main road links which connected the most important
centers formed a peripheral ring but the central areas were not adequately
served by radial connections to that ring. The situation was improved with
the construction of the Pristina-Pec and Pristina-Leskovac (under construc-
tion) roads, both Bank-financed projects. The construction of the project
roads now envisaged in the highway master plan would further improve the
situation.



- 27 -
3.32      The important commodities that would be affected by the improved
roads are agricultural goods, fruits and vegetables, mineral products and
construction materials. The project road sections would also provide direct
all-weather paved road connection between several growing commercial centers,
and would also open up some areas along the roads proposed which are now
isolated for much of the year.
3.33      The Provincial Road Council has undertaken a considerable amount
of economic analysis of the entire inter-regional and regional network in
cooperation with the consultant engaged in the preparation of the highway
master plan. The network analysis covered about 85% to 90% of the traffic
flows on the interurban roads in the Province.
3.34      The conditions and characteristics of the existing project road
sections and the present and projected traffic on each are shown in Map 2.
The investment program proposed (Map 3) is based on considerations of volume/
capacity relationship on the road network, economic rates of return, and takes
account of presently proposed regional development.
3.35      Maintenance of the existing road network and rehabilitation of
certain important sections are shown to be of prime importance. Based on the
most probable estimates of construction costs, base year (1977) traffic and
traffic growth, the Provincial Road Organization has estimated that the eco-
nomic rates of return of the proposed three-year project road sections (Table
3.5) will range from 12% to 50% and above. Savings in vehicle operating costs
in most cases account for about 70% of- the total benefits. These returns may
be on the conservative side as the benefits do not take account of the reduc-
tion in accidents, and the comfort and convenience of travelling on improved
roads. In view of the regional significance of these sections in the road
system and the conservative estimate of benefits, their construction as pro-
posed is amply justified.
SR Montenegro
The Investment Plan 1979-1985
3.36      The planned program expenditures for 1979-1985 are summarized below
along with actual expenditures for 1972-1978 for comparison in constant 1977
prices. About 17% of capital expenditures programmed relate to on-going
projects. The total program costs are estimated at Dinar 4,187.1 million
(US$232.8 million). The foreign exchange component of the capital works is
estimated at about Dinar 1,029.1 million (US$57.1 million).



- 28 -
Table 3.7:  ACTUAL AND PROPOSED ROAD EXPENDITURES
Dinar Million                                       US$ Million
Actual                   Proposed                  Actual                     Proposed
1972-1978&/               1979-1985                1972-1978&1                 1979-1985
In 1977    In Current  In 1977   In CurrenS  In 1977    In Current  In 19?7    In Current
SR Montenegro                  Prices2/ _ Prices           Prices      Prices3/  Pricea/    Prices           Prices         Prices3
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
(i) Inter-regional
roads                    960.3        685.9      1,339.0      2,008.5         53.3         38.1         74.4         111.6
(ii) Regional roads              774.6        553.3         856.0     1,284.0         43.1         30.8         47.6          71.4
Equipment                           2.4         1.7          80.0        120.0          0.1          0.1         4.4           6.6
Training and Techni-
cal Assistance                   0.6          0.4          12.0        18.0          0.0          0.0          0.6           0.9
Subtotal                       1,737.9      1,241.3      2,287.0      3,430.5         96.5         69.0        127.0         190.5
Recurrent
Road Maintenance
(i) Inter-regional roads    254.1           181.5         294.4        441.6         14.1         10.1         16.4         24.6
(ii) Regional roads              138.9         99.2         160.4       240.6           7.7         5.5          9.0          13.5
Administration and
Planning                        28.7         20.5          49.6         74.4         1.7          1.2          2.8           4.2
Subtotal                         421.7        301.2         504.4        756.6        23.5         16.8         28.2          42.3
Total                    2,159.6      1,542.5       2,791.4     4,187.1         120.0        85.8        155.2         232.8
1/ Figures for 1978 are budget estimates.
2/  Includes overall price escalation of 40% based on prevailing price indices.
3/ Includes overall price escalation of 50% based on the estimated price rise.
Source: Republican.Roads Organization and mission estimates.
3.37               Capital works in the program include the construction and improve-
ment of 218 km of roads of which 117 km are inter-regional and 101 km are
regional. Of this total, 38 km represent on-going works to which the Republic
is already committed. The program includes maintenance of approximately 1,600
km of roads, 1,000 km of which are paved. The main components of the program
are strengthening and widening of paved roads, road maintenance, road con-
struction, equipment purchase, strengthening the road organization and staff
training.
3.38               In the past few years the thrust of transport investment in Monte-
negro has been towards construction of the Belgrade/Bar railway and the devel-
opment of the port of Bar.  During this period investment in road infrastruc-
ture took second place.  Now, with those major investments completed, the
Republic can turn its attention to the problems of its road networks. The
three primary objectives addressed in the proposed program are:



- 29 -
(i)  improving access from Titograd, the Republican capital, to the
northern Adriatic coast of Montenegro;
(ii)  to open up undeveloped areaLs in the hinterland presently with
meager access; and
(iii)  from the inter-regional point of view to improve the road links
with Bosnia-Herzegovina to the west.
3.39      Montenegro is a region of climatic extremes and rugged terrain,
factors which have contributed to higher maintenance costs for the road
network than in most other Republics. Although, as a result of dealing with
these challenging conditions the maintenance organization in Montenegro is
capable and has been operating creditably, the proposed maintenance program
will strengthen the agency and modernize its operations.
Three-Year Project - Mid 1979 to Mid 1982
3.40      The three-year project consists of the mid-1979 to mid-1982 slice of
the investment plan which is summarized below:



- 30 -
TABLE 3.8:  THREE YEAR PROJECT (MID-1979 TO MID-1982)
Dinar Million                US$ Million
SR Montenegro                  Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Road Construction/
Improvement
Inter-regional              347.20   148.80   496.00   19.29        8.27    27.56
Regional                    398.30   170.70   569.00   22.13         9.48    31.61
Subtotal /_              745.50   319.50 1,065.00   41.42    17.75    59.17
Contingencies
Physical 10%                 74.55    31.95   106.50    1.14         1.78     5.92
Escalation 31.34%           233.64   100.13   333.77   12.98        5.56    18.54
Construction Total   1,053.69   451.58 1,505.27   58.54    25.09    83.63
Equipment                       0.00      3.24      3.24    0.00       0.18      0.18
Contingencies 10%             0.00      0.36      0.36    0.00      0.02      0.02
Equipment Total            0.00      3.60      3.60    0.00      0.20      0.20
Training/Technical
Assistance                    1.80      1.80      3.60    0.10       0.10     0.20
Subtotal              1,055.49   456.98 1,512.47   58.64    25.39    84.03
Recurrent
Road Maintenance /2
Inter-regional              147.20      0.00   147.20    8.18       0.00      8.18
Regional                     80.20      0.00    80.20    4.45       0.00      4.45
Maintenance Total         227.40      0.00   227.40   12.63       0.00    12.63
Administration and
Planning /2                   24.80      0.00    24.80    1.38        0.00      1.38
Total                   1,307.69   456.98 1,764,67   72.65    25.39    98.04
/1   Construction cost estimates are of July 1977.
/2   The foreign costs of recurrent items have not been shown.
Source: Republican Roads Organization and mission estimates.



- 31 -
The proposed Bank assistance of US$20 million would support the first phase of
the road program and would provide about 80% (20 - 25.39) of the foreign
exchange component of the capital works. Although the specific subprojects
(civil works) which the Bank will finance have not been identified with
absolute certainty, it is expected that commitments will be made in accordance
with Table 3.9.
Table 3.9: PROPOSED SECTIONAL ROAD CONSTRUCTION/IMPROVEMENT TARGETS
Total
Mid 1979              Mid 1980               Mid 1981              Mid 1979
to                    to                     to                    to
Mid 1L980             Mid 1981               Mid 1982              Mid 1982
SR Monteneero                                       Km     Dinar ml-/    Km       Dinar ml/    Km       Dinar ml/    Km        Dinar ml/
Inter-regional Roads Strengthening
and Widening
Andrejevica-Murino                                7.0        96.0       8.0       100.0         -          -        15.0       196.0
Kosanica-Djurdevica-
Tara                                             -           --        4.0        40,0      11.0       110_0       15.0       150.0
Subtotal                                      7.0        Wi_Q      12.0       14-n    11.0           110.       30.0        346.0
New Construction
Niksic-Vilusi                                     4.0        26.0       6.0         39.0      13.0        85.       23.0       1L0
Subtotal                                      4.0        26.0       6.0         39.0      13.0        85.0      23.0       l n.o
Inter-regional Road Total                          11.0       122.0      18.0        179.0      24.0       195.0      53.0        496.0
Regional Roads Strengthening and
Widening
Titograd-Cetinje                                11.0        101.0      10.0         84.0     10.0         84.0      31.0       269.0
Andrijevica-Ivangrad  (16 km)                     4.0        50.0       8.0       100.0        4.0        50.0      16.0       200.0
Paving Gravel Roads (sections to be
specified later)                                13.0         52.0      12.0        48.0         -           -       25.0       100.0
Regional Road Total                                28,0       203.0      30.0        232.0      14.0       134.0       72.0       569.0
Grand Total                                  39.0       325.0      48.0       411.0       38.0       329.0    125.0    1,065.0
1/ In 1977 prices.
Note: Appropriate Provision for physical and financLal contingencies has been included in Table 3.8
for the three-year program but has not been detailed for each subproject pending its
finalization.
Source: Republican Roads Organization.



- 32 -
Cost Estimates
3.41      The estimated costs of the three-year program are given in fable
3.8. The foreign exchange component of the capital expenditure is estimated
at US$25.39 million.
Assessment
Institutional Capacity
3.42      The Republican Roads Organization is the agency concerned with all
aspects of the project, and is the focal point for all directly, or indirectly
concerned with its implementation. The organization is adequately staffed
with personnel appropriately qualified in the technical and economic aspects
of project planning and design. The capability to supervise projects in the
field, however, needs to be further strengthened so that closer quality con-
trol can be exercised. More attention is now being given to the systematic
supervision and control of the work of road maintenance contractors. Develop-
ment of a traffic flow information system is now recognized as being of prime
importance for sustained planning purposes and the organization is striving
to improve its present system and its coverage. Comparison of expenditures
in constant price terms in Table 3.7 indicates an expansion of approximately
30% in the Republican roads program which is within the capabilities of the
Roads Organization and the local contracting industry and road maintenance
enterprises.
Financial Capability
3.43      Montenegro has the resources to meet the local costs and the resi-
dual foreign cost components and the demonstrable ability to perform the work.
Funds firmly identified, Table 3.10, cover all of the proposed project costs.



- 33 -
TABLE 3.10: FINANCING THE ROAD PROGRAM
SR Montenegro                                   DaU$
SR Montenegro               -~------Dinar ------- ------US$ --------
1976/78L-  1979/81/-1976/78-/  1979/81/-
Sources                      (3 years)  (3 years) (3 years) (3 years)
1. Funds of Working Organization)
2. Compensation from Under-        )
developed Fund                )
)     800.0      1,400.0      44.4       77.8
3. Proceeds from Fuel Taxation )
and Funds of SR Montenegro )
Budget                        )
4. Local Funds                     )
5. IBRD Loans and Loans from
other International
Organizations                        300.0        400.0      16.7       22.2
Total                          1,100.0       1,800.0      61.1      100.0
/1   1976/78 figures are based on actuals for 1976 and 1977 and the best
estimate for 1978.
/2   1979/81 estimated figures.
Note: Figures relate to calendar years. Tentative estimate for mid-1979
to mid-1982 is of the same order as 1979/81 calendar years.
Source: Republican Roads Organization
Economic Viability
3.44      The project roads are part of regional and inter-regional transport
routes and serve areas of high industrial, mining and agricultural activity.
The important commodities whose exploitation would be enhanced by the
improved roads are raw and processed forestry products, fruits and vegetables,
textiles and leather goods, construction materials, aluminium and steel prod-
ucts. The improvement of both inte-r-regional and regional roads will benefit
long-distance as well as local traffic.
3.45      The economic benefits will accrue in particular to  three specific
zones. Firstly, in the central zone comprising the influence area of Titograd-
Bar-Pluzine, which caters to a large industrial and mining complex, congestion
on the existing main arterial route, Titograd-Petrovac will be substantially
relieved. The easing of traffic flows will facilitate the growth of key



- 34 -
sectors of the economy. Secondly, the proposed infrastructure facilities will
greatly improve connections between the Republican capital and Montenegrin
coast of the Adriatic and will stimulate tourism development. Thirdly, the
proposed construction in the Andrejevica, Murino, Ivangrad region will assist
in the development of light processing industries and will greatly help devel-
opment of this relatively backward region of the Republic.
3.46      Present and forecast traffic on the road network is indicated in
Maps 4 and 5 on which is also indicated the present condition and character-
istics of individual links. The investment program (Table 3.8) is based on
broad economic analyses utilizing volume/capacity relationships on the road
networks.
3.47      The economic analyses take into account several alternative possi-
bilities such as stage construction, including sequential pavement construc-
tion and the use of tunnels where applicable. In some cases, new construction
was found to be more economical than rehabilitation of existing roads mainly
because of poor horizontal and vertical alignments and the high cost of widen-
ing in mountainous areas.
3.48      One of the road sections in the project will provide an important
economic link towards Bosnia-Herzegovina, the adjoining Republic and to the
Croatian coast. It will also partially substitute for the discontinued narrow
gauge railway line which previously serviced the area.
3.49      The project would yield adequate economic  benefits.  Based on the
most probable estimates of construction costs, base year (1977) traffic and on
a conservative estimate of traffic growth, the Republican Road Organization
has calculated that the economic rates of return of the proposed three-year
project road sections (Table 3.9) will range from 13% to 19%, which is real-
istic. The Republic has not yet firmed up the list of approximately 25 km of
gravel roads which need to be paved during the period under reference. These
will be low cost roads chosen out of a few alternative sections now being con-
sidered and their inclusion in the project will be based on adequate economic
justifications. In general, the broad economic analyses show that the need
for the project sections is urgent and their construction should be under-
taken without delay. The investment plan will, however, be continuously under
review through a roll-over system of planning.
SAP Vojvodina
The Investment Plan 1979 to 1985
3.50      Planned program expenditures for 1979 to 1985 are summarized below
along with 1972-1978 actual expenditures for comparison in constant 1977
prices. About 39% of capital expenditures programmed relate to on-going
projects. The total program costs are estimated at Dinar 11,755.5 million
(US$653.4 million). The foreign exchange component of the capital works
is estimated at approximately Dinar 2,681 million (US$149 million).



- :35 -
Table 3.11:  ACTUAL AND PROPOSED ROAD EXPENDITURES
Dinar Million                                    US$ Million
Actual                Proposed                  Actual               Proposed
1972-1978IJ             1979-1985               1972-1978k1            1979-1985
In 1977    In Current  In 1977   In Curre t  In 1977   In Current  In 1977    In Curre it
SAP Voivodina               Prices2V      Prices    Prices      Prices'9   Prices-l    Prices    Prices         Prices-3/
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
(i) Inter-regional roads  2,107.4        1,505.3   4,219.0      6,328.5      117.0         83.6      234.4         351.6
(ii) Regional roads           416.9         297.8   1,600.0      2,400.0       23.2         16.6       88.9        133.4
Equipment                      93.5          66.8      120.0        180.0        5.2         3.7        6.7          10.1
Training and Technical
Assistance                   15.4          11.0   _L8.0            27.0       0.8          0.6        1.0           1.5
Subtotal                    2,633.2       1     ,880 .9  57.      8,935.5     146.2        104.5      331.0         496.6
Recurrent
Road Maintenance
(i) Inter-regional roads    748.7          534.8   1,162.0      1,743.0       41.6         29.7       64.6         96.9
(ii) Regional roads           545.6         389.7      576.0       864.0       30.2         21.6       32.0         48.0
Administration and
Planning                     84.8          60.6      142.0        213.0       4.6          3.3        7.9          11.9
Subtotal                    1,379.1         985.1   1,880.0      2,820.0       76.4         54.6      104.5         156.8
Total                  4,012.3       2,866.0   7,837.0    11,755.5       222.6        159.1     435.5         653.4
t| Figures for 1978 are budget estimates.
2/ Includes overall price escalation of 40% based orL prevailing price indices.
3/ Includes overall price escalation of 50% based orn the estimated price rise.
Source: Provincial Roads Association and mission esLimates.
3.51            The long-term development strategy of Vojvodina in which the pro-
posed road program will play its part, visualizes the decentralization of eco-
nomic activity from Novi Sad to five other primary centers. Each, in addition
to its spatial separation from the others, is already the focus of particular
activities (agriculture, petrochemicals, metal processing, etc.), and accounts
in its own right for a significant contribution to the Province's income.
There will be strong transportation links (principally highways) between Novi
Sad and these five development satellites. In its turn each primary center
is the development focus of its adjoining areas, the centroidal towns of which
become the secondary centers and with which each primary center should have
sound transportation links. Thus a national web-like pattern of primary,
secondary and feeder roads for Vojvodina is in the course of evolution. The
Bank's sector loan to the Province will assist in its reaching fruition. In
the short run, however, first priorities will be given to eliminating bottle-
necks on the Province's two primary routes: the north-south E5 and the east-
west trans-Yugoslav highway section. The need for the individual sections
proposed in the program is justified by the traffic projections.



- 36 -
3.52      The program construction targets are 385 km of roads of which 205
km are inter-regional and 180 km are regional.   About 187 km of this total
represents on-going projects to which the Roads Association is already com-
mitted. The program also covers the maintenance of approximately 2,500 km of
roads, about 2,200 km of which are paved. The main components of the program
are strengthening and widening of paved roads, maintenance, construction,
equipment, organization, and training.
3.53      As in the other Republics and Provinces of Yugoslav, Vojvodina
carries out its road maintenance by contract with an enterprise (contractor),
Vojvodinaput, which has specifically organized itself for that purpose.  Fund-
ing has been adequate and the enterprise is well deployed throughout the
Province so that routine and periodic works can be systematically carried
out. The functions of the maintenance department of the Roads Association is
to define the tasks and to supervise the operations of Vojvodinaput. In this
they are effective, but, nevertheless, the Association recognizes the need for
its staff to be exposed to techniques and practices in this field of other
more developed countries and proposes training accordingly.
Three Year Project - Mid-1979 to Mid-1982
3.54      The three year program consists of the mid-1979 to mid-1982 slice of
the investment plan which is summarized below (Table 3.12):



- 37 -
TABLE 3.12: THREE YEAR PROGRAM (MID-1979 TO MID-1982)
Dinar Million                 US$ Million
SAP Vojvodina                 Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
Inter-regional          1,470.00    630.00 2,100.00   81.67    35.00   116.67
Regional                    98.70      42.30   141.00    5.50       2.30      7.80
Subtotal /1             1,568.70    672.30 2,241.00   87.17    37.30   124.47
Contingencies
Physical 10%               156.90      67.20   224.10    8.72       3.73    12.45
Escalation 29.66%          324.56    139.10   463.66   18.03        7.73    25.76
Construction Total      2,050.16    878.60 2,928.76  113.92    48.76   162.68
Equipment                     0.00       6.48      6.48    0.00      0.36      0.36
Contingencies 10%             0.00       0.72      0.72    0.00      0.04      0.04
Equipment Total              0.00       7.20      7.20    0.00      0.40      0.40
Training/Technical
Assistance                  2.70       1.80     4.50    0.15       0.10     0.25
Subtotal                2,052.86    887.60 2,940.46  114.07    49.26   163.33
Recurrent
Road Maintenance
Inter-regional             581.00       0.00   581.00   32.30       0.00    32.30
Regional                   288.00       0.00   288.00   16.00       0.00    16.00
Maintenance Total /2       869.00       0.00   869.00   48.30       0.00    48.30
Administration and
Planning /2                 71.00       0.00    71.00    3.90       0.00     3.90
Total                 2,992.86    887.60 3,880.46  166.27    49.26   215.53
/1   Construction cost estimates are of April 1978.
/2   Foreign costs have not been determined for recurrent items.
Source: Provincial Roads Association and mission estimates.



- 38 -
The proposed Bank assistance of US$36 million would support the first phase
of the road program and would provide about 73% (36 - 49.26) of the foreign
exchange component of the capital works. Although specific sub-projects
(civil works) which the Bank will finance have not yet been finally identi-
fied, it is expected that commitments will be made in accordance with the
Table 3.13.
Table 3.13: PROPOSED ROAD CONSTRUCTION/IMPROVEMENT TARGETS
Total
Mid 1979               Mid 1980               Mid 1981               Mid 1979
to                     to                     to                     to
Mid 1980               Mid 1981               Mid 1982               Mid 1982
SAP Voivodina                                        Km      Dinar mnt'    Kn       Dinar m-l/    Km       Dinar mnt/    Km       Dinar mnI/
Inter-regional roads
New Construction
Expressway E-70 Pecinci-Prov.  Border              3.0       126.0      10.0        378.0       -           -         13.0        504.0
Expressway E-75 Srbobran-Novi Sad                11.0        345.0      10.0        345,0      11.0        356.0      32.0    1,046.0
Novi Sad-Zabalj                                   4.0         75.0        8.0       150.0       4.0         75.0      16.0        300.0
Zabalj-Tisa                                        3.0        62.0        7.0       125.0        3.0        63.0      13.0        250.0
Subtotal                                     2j1L        608.0      35.0        998.0      18.0        494.0      74.0    2,100.0
Regional roads
Kula Savino Solo                                   9,0       141.0         -                                           9.0        141.0
Total                                         30.0       749.0    _5_0          998.0       18.0       494.0      83.0    2,241.0
I/ Prices April 1978
Note: Appropriate provision for physical and financial contingencies has been included in Table 3.12
for the three-year program but has not been detailed for each subproject pending their
finalization.
Source: Provincial Roads Association.



- 39 -
Cost Estimates
3.55      The estimated costs of the three year program are given in Table
3.12. The foreign exchange component of the capital expenditure is estimated
at US$49.26 million.
Assessment
Institutional Capacity
3.56      That the Provincial Roads Association is technically competent is
due to the importance it has attached to strengthening the planning functions
within the organization and to the gathering of traffic and operational
statistics on the Province's highways and their utilization. The organiza-
tion has demonstrated sound engineeri.ng and professional skills in completing
successfully the Novi Sad-Indija-Batajnica Expressway Project (Bank-financed)
which includes one of Europe's major bridges (that over the river Danube).
Road maintenance has also received its rightful attention. As reflected in
the foregoing comparison of expenditures in constant price terms in Table 3.11,
the project envisages a considerable expansion of road construction, improve-
ment and to a more limited extent, maintenance. It is expected, however, that
in association with capable and well-organized local contracting industry, the
Roads Association will accomplish the task efficiently and on time.
3.57      The proposed road program is considered realistic.  Careful atten-
tion has been given to identification of project priorities, so that any
shortfall in implementation of subprojects may be handled easily. The project
pipeline will be reviewed annually by the Province in consultation with the
Bank.
Financial Capability
3.58      Vojvodina has the resources to meet the local costs and the residual
foreign cost components and the demonstrable ability to perform the work.
Funds already firmly identified, Table 3.14, cover 90% of the proposed project
costs.



- 40 -
TABLE 3.14: FINANCING THE ROAD PROGRAM
SAP Vojvodina                              ------Dinar ------   ------US$ m-------
1976/78   1979/81   1976/78   1979/81
Sources                               (3 years) (3 years) (3 years) (3 years)
1. Funds of Working Organizations               7.0         -        0.4          -
2. Proceeds from fuel taxation
and funds of SAP Vojvodina
budget                                  634.7      863.0      35.3       103.5
3. Loans from Yugoslav
Commercial Banks                        251.3      822.4       4.0        45.7
4. Local funds (municipal
contributions)                           90.8      134.0       5.0         7.4
5. IBRD Loans                                   6.3      648.0       0.3        36.0
Total                              990.1   3,468.0       55.0       192.6
Note: Figures relate to calender years, tentative estimate for mid-1979 to
mid-1982 is of the same order as 1979/81 calender years.
Source: Provincial Roads Association.
Economic Viability
3.59      The project will make significant improvements to the transportation
infrastructure of Yugoslavia's most important agricultural region. Vojvodina
provides half the wheat, almost two-thirds of the maize and half the sugar
beet, pork and beef sold in the market. The proposed highway program would
improve some of the principal arteries linking the primary centers in the
northern and southern parts of the Province, and would facilitate the social
and economic integration of several important population and economic centers
in the area: Novi Sad the Provincial Capital; Subotica the second largest
city in the north, set in a farming region but with considerable industry; and
the Zabalj-Tisa-Zrenjanin complex noted for its food processing industries.
Improvement of the east-west Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH) section within the
Province would also eliminate a present bottleneck to smooth traffic flow
between Central/Western Europe and the Balkans/Near East.
3.60      The principal quantifiable benefits of the proposed improvements
would be savings in transport costs. Additional benefits would accrue from
improved safety and comfort in driving, and the environment would benefit from
the relief of traffic congestion especially on the TYH section leading to the
Surcin airport. The principal direct beneficiaries would be road users. How-
ever, because of keen competition in the transport industry, it is expected
that savings in transport costs accruing to truckers and other transport inter-
mediaries would be passed on gradually to producers and consumers.



- 41 -
3.61        The Provincial Roads Association has undertaken considerable
traffic and economic analyses of the entire inter-regional and regional road
network in cooperation with the consultant engaged in the preparation of the
highway maste plan. In addition, they have also carried out detailed feasi-
bility studies of the two principal arterial routes, E5 (Subotica-Novi Sad-
Belgrade) and the TYH section passing through the Province.
3.62      The conditions and characteristics of the existing project road
sections are indicated in Maps 6 and 7 along with present and forecast traffic
on each of the project sections. The traffic projections are based on past
traffic growths, recent origin and destination studies, projection of produc-
tion of goods and services and growth of per capita income in the zones of
influence and are realistic.
3.63      In selecting the proposed investments, especially for the  arterial
routes E5 and TYH, the routes were divided into several sub-sections depending
on the traffic flow characteristics and several alternative solutions were
evaluated for each section: improving the existing road, constructing a new
two-lane road, and stage construction of the ultimate four-lane highway. The
results were reviewed with the Bank and a number of marginal subprojects were
either reformulated or postponed for consideration in the next phase (after
mid-1982) and only the most economic solution was adopted.
3.64      Two of the proposed road sections would parallel railways.  On these
routes both railways and roads are heavily utilized and both need urgent
improvement. The inter-modal allocation of traffic has been arrived at with
due consideration to the nature of traffic, distance travelled and service
characteristics offered by the two modes.
3.65      The proposed investment program for different road sections (Table
3.13) would produce economic returns ranging from 18% to 32%. The economic
benefits attributed to the project road improvement take into account only
savings in vehicle operating costs, passenger time (in the case of congested
primary roads) and road maintenance costs. Benefits due to increased comfort,
convenience and safety have not been considered. The road improvement and
maintenance program proposed has a sound rationale and deserves early imple-
mentation.
SR Macedonia
The Investment Plan 1979-85
3.66      Planned program expenditures for 1979-85 are summarized below along
with 1972-78 actual expenditures shown for comparison in constant 1977 prices.
About one-fifth of the capital expenditures programmed are for ongoing projects.
The total program costs are estimated at Dinar 10,691 million (US$594 million).
The foreign exchange component of the capital works is estimated at about
Dinar 2,372 million (US$132 million).



- 42 -
Table  3.15:   ACTUAL AND PR0P0SED ROAD EXPENDITlRFS
Dinar Million                                                    US$ Million
Actual                             Proposed                      Actual                         Proposed
1972-78 1/                          1979-85                      1972-78 -                         1979-85
In 1977         In current         In 1977    In current          In 1977 21 In current    In 1977    In current
SR Macedonia                   prices -          prices           prices        prices  3/       prices          prices         prices         prices  3/
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
(i) Inter-regional
roads                   1,451.7           1,036.9          4,383.0         6,574.5           80.6            57.6          243.5          365.2
(ii) Regional roads           1,788.1            1,277.2            725.0        1,087.5           99.3            70.9            40.3          60.4
Equipment                          40.6              29.0           154.0           231.0            2.3             1.6            8.5          12.8
Training and Technical
Assistance                         -               -                  8.0           12.0             -               -             0.5           0.7
Subtotal              3,280,4           2,343.1          5,270.0        7,905.0          182.2           130.1           292.8         439.1
Recurrent
Road Maintenance
(i) Inter-regional
roads                      486.6             347.6            897.4        1,346.1           27.0            19.3           49.9           74.8
(ii) Regional roads              325.5             232.5            583.2           874.8           18.1           12.9            32.4          48.6
Administration and
Planning                        188.3             134.5            376.6           564.9          10.5             7.5            20.9          31.4
Subtotal              1,000.4              714.6         1,857.2         2,785.8           55.6           39.7           103.2         154.8
Total                 4,280.8           3,057.7          7,127.2       10,690.8          237.8           169.8           396.0         593.9
1/ Figures for 1978 are budget estimates
2/ Includes overall price escalation of 402 based on the prevailing price indices
3/ Includes overall price escalation of 50% based on the estimated price rise
Source: Republican Road Council and mission estimates.
3.67                The program includes construction of about 515 km of roads of which
about 350 km are inter-regional roads and about 165 km are regional roads.
About 85 km of this total represents ongoing works to which the Road Council
is already committed. The program also includes the maintenance of about
3,000 km of roads, about half of which are paved. The main components of the
program are the strengthening and widening of some of the roads already paved,
the reconstruction to acceptable standards of old roads with weak pavements
and poor geometry, the maintenance of existing roads, the purchase of equip-
ment needed to collect and collate traffic data, and strengthening of the road
organization by a program of staff training.



- 43 -
3.68      From expenditures proposed in the 1979-85 program (Table 3.15), it
is clear that a much higher level of investment is planned than in the 1972-78
period. The need for such an increase has been dictated primarily by the
growing transport needs of other expanding sectors of the economy, the need to
stimulate activities in the underdeveloped regions, and the diversification
and dispersion of industry throughout the Republic.
3.69      During the last decade (Road Plans 1971-75 and 1976-80), road devel-
opment plans were mainly concerned with the expansion of the network of
regional roads to serve key areas of dlevelopment in the Republic. Although
more expansion of the network will stiLlI be made to provide needed links, the
emphasis is now being turned to the consolidation of previous investments
in terms of the improvement and upgrading of roads to better provide for the
increasingly heavy vehicle flows. The proposed investment plans, justified by
traffic forecasts, reflect these changing needs and should enable the Repub-
lican Road Council to meet its objectives of increased efficiency and quality
of service.
3.70      Provisions for road maintenance have not been consistent in the
earlier Plan periods. In the proposed program, however, maintenance of the
existing road network has been given prominence as being an essential com-
ponent of a rational program for development and modernization of the network
itself. Accordingly the proposed expenditure on road maintenance during
1979-85 will be almost twice that spent during 1972-78 (in 1977 constant
prices), but will be in line with the network's needs.
Three-Year Project, Mid 1979-Mid 1982,
3.71      The proposed project (Table 3.16) consists of a three-year time
slice (mid 1979-mid 1982) of the Investment Plan.



- 44 -
Table 3.16:  THREE-YEAR PROJECT (MID 1979-MID 1982)
Dinar Million                  US$ Million
SR Macedonia                  Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
Inter-regional           1,099.00    471.00  1,570.0    61.05    26.17    87.22
Regional                   332.50    142.50   475.00    18.47         7.92    26.39
Subtotal /1              1,431.50    613.50 2,045.00    79.52    34.09   113.61
Contingencies
Physical 10%               143.15      61.35   204.50       7.95      3.41    11.36
Escalation 30.99%          443.62    190.12   633.74    24.65    10.56    35.21
Construction Total       2,018.27    864.97 2,883.24   112.12    48.06   160.18
Equipment                     0.00       4.86      4.86      0.00      0.27      0.27
Contingencies 10%            0.00       0.54      0.54      0.00      0.03      0.03
Equipment Total              0.00       5.40      5.40      0.00      0.30      0.30
Training/Technical
Assistance                  1.80       1.80      3.60      0.10      0.10     0.20
Subtotal                 2,020.07    872.17 2,892.24   112.22    48.46   160.68
Recurrent
Road Maintenance /2
Inter-regional             448.70       0.00   448.70    24.90       0.00    24.90
Regional                   291.60       0.00   291.60    16.20       0.00    16.20
Maintenance Total          740.30       0.00   740.30    41.10        0.00    41.10
Administration and
Planning                   188.30       0.00   188.30    10.50       0.00    10.50
Total                    2,948.67    872.17 3,820.84   163.82    48.46   212.28
/1   Construction cost estimates are of July 1977.
/2   The table gives no breakdown of the foreign costs of recurrent items.
Source:  Republican Road Council and mission estimates.



- 45 -
The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million would support the first phase of the
road program and would provide about 72% (35 - 48.46) of the foreign exchange
component of the capital works. Although the specific subprojects (civil
works) which t e Bank will finance have not been finally identified, it is
expected that they will be those listed in Table 3.17 and be accomplished at
the annual rates of expenditure shown:
Table 3.17:   PROPOSED SECTIONAL ROAD CONSTRUCTION/IMPROVEMENT TARGETS
Total
Mid 1979             Mid 1980              Mid 1981              Mid 1979
to                   to                    to                   to
Mid 1980             Mid 1981              Mid 1982    1,        Mid 1982
SR Macedonia               Km      Dinar m-/    Km       Dinar m -   Kin    Dinar            Km     Dinar 
Inter-regional roads
New Construction
1. Prilep-Bitola         10.0       85.0        15.0   128.0         22.0      187.0       47.o    400.0
2. Ohrid-Bitola          12.0      101.0        20.0   168.0         31.0      261.0      63.0    530.0
3. Miladinovci-Stip   15.0         108.0        25.0   180.0         24.0      172.0       64.0    460.0
4. Kumanovo-Rankovci  -              -            -         -        20.0      130.0      20.0      180.0
Subtotal          37.0     294.0         60.0   476.0        97.0       800.0    194.0  1,570.0
Regional roads
Strengthening and
Widening
1. Trabotiviste-
Pehcevo                9.0      30.0          9.0     30.0         -          -        18.0       60.0
2. Debar-Albanian
Border                3.0      10.0           -        -          -          -         3.0       10.0
3. Maked Brod-
Belica              18.0       50.0        10.0      28.0                             28.0      78.0
New Construction
1. Berovo-
Strumica             -            -        10.0    100,0          -          -       10.0      100.0
2. Tetovo-Gostivar        7.0       35.0         7.0      35.0        6.0        30.0     20.0      100.0
3. Krivogastani-
Krusevo               3.0      14.0         5.0      23.0         -          -         8.0      37.0
4. Ohrid-Pestani         10.0       30.0          -         -          -          -       10.0       30.0
5. Rasimbegov Most-
Vitoliste           10.0       44.0         4.0      16.0         -                 _14.0       60.0
Subtotal             60.0      213.0        45.0   232.0          6.0        30.0    111.0      475.0
Regional roads
Grand Total          97.0      507.0       105.0    708.0       103.0       830.0    305.0  2_045.0
1/ in ~1977 pri`ces~
Note: Appropriate provision for physical and financial contingencies has been included in the
earlier table for the total three-year program but has nut been detailed for each
subproject pending their finalization.
Source:   Repuhlican Road Council and mission estim,ates



- 46 -
Cost Estimates
3.72      Estimated costs of the three-year project are given in Table 3.16.
The foreign exchange component of the capital expenditure is estimated at
US$48.46 million.
Assessment
Institutional Capacity
3.73      The Republican Road Council has established a strong maintenance
organization and has demonstrated its capacity to plan and execute road con-
struction and improvement projects to satisfactory standards. The Council
has maintained effective liaison with such Yugoslav consultants in the region
as the Environmental Planning Institute (Ohrid) and the Faculty of Civil
Engineering, University of Skopje, and has gradually developed adequate proce-
dures for highway project planning and administration. Its highway programs
have been generally responsive to the needs of the various parts of the
Republic and flexible enough to meet changing circumstances. However, as
reflected in the foregoing comparison of expenditures in constant price terms,
the project envisages considerable expansion of road construction, improvement
and maintenance, and would call for additional efforts from all concerned.
The local contracting industry and Road Maintenance Enterprises are, however,
capable and well organized, and are expected to accomplish the proposed
physical targets on time under the overall supervision of the Road Council.
Financial Capability
3.74      The Republican authorities have the resources to meet the local
costs and the shortfall in foreign costs not met from the loan, and the
proven ability to execute projects speedily and well. Funds firmly identi-
fied (Table 3.18) cover about 90% of the proposed project costs. Besides the
assistance from the Bank, the authorities expect additional foreign exchange
assistance to be available from EIB and other bilateral agencies.



47 -
Table 3.18: FINANCING THiE ROAD PROGRAM
SR Macedonia                 Diner mUS$ m                      
1976/78 1/   1979/81 2/   1976/78 11  1979/81 2/
Sources           (3 years)    (3 Lears)    (3 years)    (3 years)
1. Funds of Working
Organizations
2. Proceeds from Fuel
Taxation and Funds of
SR Macedonia Budget  ) 1,979.1   2,700.0       110.0       150.0
3. Loans from Yugoslav
Commercial Banks
4. Local Funds
(municipal contri-
butions)
5. IBRD Loans and Loans
from Other Interna-
tional Organizations    129.6      800.0         7.2        44.4
Total           2,108.7      3,500.0       117.2       194.1
1/ 1976/78 figures are based on actuals for 1976 and 1977 and the best estimate
for 1978.
2/ 1979/81 estimated figures.
Note: Figures relate to calendar years. Tentative estimate for mid 1979-mid 1982
is of the same order as 1979/81 calendar years.
Source: Republican Road Organization.
Economic Viability
3.75        Several industrial, mining and agricultural enterprises which are
directly served by the proposed improved network and which produce construc-
tion materials, wood and wood producits, ores, agricultural commodities and
semi-processed food will receive benefits in the form of reduced transport
costs. The beneficiaries will also include tourists, especially those visit-
ing the Ohrid-Prespa region and stimulating the foreign exchange potential of
the Republic. Because of the competitive nature of the road transport indus-
try, it is expected that the benefits of the project, which initially accrue
to the road users, will be passed on to the economy in general.
3.76        The Republican Road Council has undertaken a considerable  amount of
economic analyses of the road network in cooperation with the consultant
engaged in the preparation of the highway master plan. The network analysis
covers about 90% of the traffic flows on the inter-urban roads in the Republic.



- 48 -
3.77      The present condition and characteristics of the existing links
which are to be improved/reconstructed under the proposed project are indi-
cated on Map 9. Map 8 shows the traffic volumes as of 1977 and also indicates
projected volumes.
3.78      One highway section in the project parallels a railway line.  Be-
cause the section is relatively short, its improvement is not expected to
divert any significant volume of traffic from the railways which carry mainly
long-distance bulk cargo .and passenger traffic. There is no sea or river
traffic. On the Ohrid and Prespa Lake there is some local traffic without any
influence upon the project roads. For each project road section, the most
economical solution has been proposed on the basis of the overall network
analysis and broad economic criteria.
3.79      Based on the most probable estimates of construction costs and
traffic growth from year 1977, the Road Council has estimated that the eco-
nomic rates of return of the proposed three-year project road sections (Table
3.17) will range from about 13% to 21%, which are realistic. These returns
may be even higher, as the benefits taken into account do not include reduc-
tions in traffic accidents, the enhanced comfort and convenience of travel
on the improved roads, and the possible generation of traffic from construc-
tion of these new facilities. Moreover, as the investment plan will be
continuously under review and possible revision, it can be adjusted to meet
changing developments.
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina
The Investment Plan 1979-1985
3.80      The planned program expenditures for 1979-85 are summarized below
along with the actual expenditures for 1972-78 for comparison in constant
1977 prices. About 25% of capital expenditures programmed relate to ongoing
projects. The total program costs are estimated at Dinar 17,684 million
(US$982 million). The foreign exchange component of the capital works
is estimated at about Dinar 3,982 million (US$221 million).



Table 3.19: ACTUAL AND PROPOSED ROAD EXPENDITURES
Dinar Million                                      US$ Million
Actual                  Proposed                  Actual                 Proposed
1972-19781/             1979-1985                 1972-19781/            1979-1985
In 1977   In Current   In 1977  In Current   In 1977   In Current   In 1977  In Current
___________________  Prices!   ______          ___V                   Prcs2        Pie          Pie        Prices-V
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina        Prices_ _    Prices      Prices    Prices-       Prices2      Prices       Prices
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
(i) Inter-regional roads   5,937.4       4,241.0    6,852.0   10,278.0         392.8       235.6        380.7      571.1
(ii) Regional roads           2,483.6      1,774.0    1,767.0    2,650.5        138.0        98.6         98.2       147 3
Equipment                       197.4        141.0       216.0       324.0       10.9          7.8         12.0       18.0
Training and Technical
Assistance                     16.8         12.0        14.0        21.0        1.0         0.7           0.8       l 2
Subtotal                      8,635.2      6,168.0    8,849.0   13,273.5        479.8       342.7         491.7      737 6
Recurrent
Road Maintenance
(i) Inter-regional roads   1,495.2       1,068.0    1,800.0    2,700.0          83.0        59.3        100.0      15C.0
(ii) Regional roads             940.8        672.0       900.0    1,350.0        52.2        37.3         50.0        7.O
Administration and
Planning                      210.0        150.0       240.0       360.0       11.6         8.3          13.2       V  9
Subtotal                      2,646.0      1,890.0    2,940.0    4,410.0        146.8       104.9         163.2      244.8
Total                  11,281,2      8,058.0   11,789.0   17,683.5         626.6       447.6        654.9      982.4
1/ Figures for 1978 are budget estimates.
2/ Includes overall price escalation of 40% based on prevailing price indices.
3/ Includes overall price escalation of 50% based on the estimated price rise.
Note: Does not include urban freeway Dariva-Brijesce-Butila.
Source: Republican Road Organization and mission estimates.



- 50 -
3.81      Since the early 1960s Bosnia-Herzegovina has devoted a major
proportion of its budget to providing a transport network to meet the needs of
iLs huudred-ood diverse communities.  The largest of all Yugoslavia's Republics,
the rugged nature of its terrain and its extremes of climate has made any
effort to improve transportation a difficult and costly task. Now with the
first objective of providing a basic network almost completed, the Republic is
turning its efforts to improving the quality of services its roads can provide
by increasing capacity on its major inter-regional and regional routes. First
priority is being given to improving the geometric design and capacity of
clearly identifiable "bottleneck" sections, all too many of which are the
cause of considerable traffic congestion now. The high costs of road works in
the rocky mountainous terrain dictate that alignment decisions can only be
taken after a careful review of all reasonable alternatives has been made.
The Republic has been prudent in this respect as it is fully aware that it
gets less road per dinar invested than do its more fortunate neighbors with
easier terrain to traverse. Thus the development program resulting from the
Republic's highway master plan study is the result of a long and patient
review process, and it takes into account the capability of the Roads Organiza-
tion to execute the works proposed and Council's ability to finance them.
3.82      Capital works in the program include the construction and improve-
ment of approximately 520 km of roads of which 350 km are inter-regional and
175 km are regional. Approximately 115 km of this total represents on-going
works to which the Republic is already committed. The program includes
maintenance of 6,500 km of roads, about 65% of which are paved. The main
components of the program are strengthening and widening of paved roads,
road maintenance, road construction, equipment purchase, strengthening the
road organization and staff training.
3.83      Maintenance of the network in such difficult terrain is a more
burdensome problem for Bosnia-Herzegovina than for most of the other Republics.
Accordingly, annual maintenance expenditures are scheduled to increase during
the forthcoming plan period over allocations made previously. To support
their efforts, the project includes provision for some road maintenance
equipment not ordinarly used by the maintenance contractors - snow removal
machines, equipment for bridge inspections, equipment to monitor vehicle
loadings, and traffic counters, etc. To bring the capabilities of the
Republic's supervisory staff into line with modern techniques and practices in
road maintenance, the project also includes a training component.
Three Year Program, Mid 1979 to Mid 1982
3.84      The three year program consists of the mid 1979 to mid 1982 slice of
the investment plan (Table 3.20):



- 51 -
Table 3.20:  THREE YEAR PROGRAM (MID 1979 TO MID 1982)
Dinar Million                US$ Million
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina          Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Capital
Road Construction
Improvement
Inter-regional             2,290.75   981.75 3,272.50  127.26   54.55   181.81
Regional                    217.70    93.30   311.00   12.09    5.18    17.27
Subtotal /1             2,508.45 1,075.05 3,583.50  139.35   59.73   199.08
Contingencies
Physical 10%                250.85   107.51   358.35   13.94    5.97    19.91
Escalation 32.15%           806.47   345.62 1,152.10   44.80   19.21    64.01
Construction total      3,565.77 1,528.18 5,093.95  198.09   84.91   283.00
Equipment                        0.00      6.48      6.48    0.00    0.36       0.36
Contingencies                 0.00      0.72     0.72    0.00    0.04       0.04
Equipment total              0.00      7.20     7.20    0.00    0.40       0.40
Training/Tech. Assist.           1.80      1.80      3.60    0.10    0.10       0.20
Subtotal                3,567.57 1,537.18 5,104.75  198.10   85.41   283.60
Recurrent
Road Maintenance /2
Inter-regional              900.00     0.00   900.00   50.00    0.00    50.00
Regional                    450.00      0.00   450.00   25.00    0.00    25.00
Maintenance total        1,350.00      0.00 1,350.00   75.00    0.00    75.00
Administration and
Planning /2                    120.00      0.00   120.00    6.60    0.00        6.60
Total                     5,037.57 L,537.18 6,574.75  279.79   85.41   365.20
/1   Construction cost estimates are of July 1977.
/2   Foreign costs for recurrent items have not been derived.
NOTE: Does not include urban freeway Dariva-Brijesce-Butila.
Source: Republican Roads Organization and mission estimates.



- 52 -
The proposed Bank assistance of US$35 million would support the first phase
of the road program and would provide about 41% (35 - 85.41) of the foreign
exchange component of the capital works. Although all the works to be fi-
nanced from the loans have not been finally identified, it is unlikely that
they will differ from those listed in Table 3.21.



- 53 -
Table 3.21: PROPOSED ROAD CONSTRUCTION/IMPROVEMENT TARGETS
Total
Mid 1979            Mid 1980             Mid 1981             Mid 1979
to                   to                    to                 to
Mid 1980            Mid 1981             Mid 1982    1/       Mid 1982
SR Bosnia-herzegovii                    Km     Dinar m -   Km       Dinar m 1/  Km       Dinar m -   Km       Dinar m -
Inter-regional roads
Strengthening & Widening
1. Jajce-Podmilacje                    -          -        3.0       42.6       3.0       42.7      6.0        85.3
2. Jezero-Jajce                       4.0      56.8        4.0       56.9        -          -       8.0      113.7
3. Kifinoselo-Madanici               15.0       30.0      15.0       35.0        -          -      30.0        65.0
4. Sanskimost-Kljuc                   5.0      36.9        5.0       37.0      11.0       82.5    21.0       156.4
5. Lastva-Klobuk                      3,0      34.1        5.0       56.8       5.0       56.9    13.0       147.8
6. Kobas-Derventa                      -         -         5.0       22.0       5.0       23.0    10.0         45.0
7. Gradacac-Pelagicevo                 -          -        5.0       18.0       5.0       18.0    10.0         36.0
8. Bos.Novi-Bis Dubica                5.0      28.4        5.0       28.4       5.0       28.5    15.0        85.3
9. Miliniste-Glamoc'                  8.0      44.9        8.0       56.8        -          -      16.0      101.7
10. Rogolji-Mliniste                   8.0      50.8        8.0       50.8       8.0       50.9    24.0       152.5
11. Pale-Rakite-Praca                  3.0       31.3       7.0       71.0       7.0       71.1    17.0       173.4
12. Duvno-Posusje                      6.0       48.0       6.0       48.0        -          -      12.0        96.0
13. Bos. Brod-Odzak                     -          -        5.0       20.0       5.0       20.0    10.0         40.0
14. Pilica-Sepak                        -          -        3.0       14.0       4.0       18.2      7.0        32.2
15, Brcko-Vrsani                       8.0      64.0        7.0       55.0        -          -      15.0      119.0
16. Draksemic-Gradiska                 5.0       25.0       5.0       25.0        -          -      10.0        50.0
17. Ljubinje-Zakovo                   10.0      56.8       10.0       56.9       7.0       37.0    27.0       150.7
18. Maslovare-Teslic                   3,0       40.0       3.0       40.0       7.0       96.5    13.0       176.5
Subtotal                      83.0      547.0      109.0     734.2      72.0       545.3   264.0    1,826.5
New Conistruction
1. Josanica-Blazuj                     -         -         3.0       90.0       3.0       90.0      6.0      180.0
2. Blazuj-Konjic                      2.0     105.0        4.0      210.0       6.0      315.0    12.0       630.0
3. Klasnice-Okucani                    -          -        5.0      170.0      5.0       140.0    10.0       310.0
4. Maglaj-Ljesnica                    5.0     160.0         -         -         -          -        5.0      160.0
5. Tuzla-Medas                        2.0      66.8        3.0       99.2       _          -        5,0      166.0
Subtotal                       9.0      331.8       15.0     569.2      14.0       545.0    38.0    1,446.0
Total (Interr. Roads)          92,0     878.8      124.0   1,303.4      86.0    1,090.3   302.0    3,272.5
Regional roads
Strengthening & Widening
1. Stolac-Plana                       4.0     25.0         4.0       25.0      5.0        31.0    13.0        81.0
2. Otoka-Kladusa                      5.0     21.0         5.0       21.0      6.0        24.0    16.0        66.0
3. Sekovici-Caparde                   6.0     30.0         6.0       31.0      6.0        31.0    18.0        92.0
Subtotal                     15.0      76.0       15.0       77.0      17.0       86.0    47.0       239.0
New Construction
1. Drvar-Martin Brod                  4.0-  24.0           4.0       24.0      4.0        24.0    12.0        72.0
Total (Reg. Roads)           19.0    100.0         19.0     101.0      21.0      110.0    59.0       311.0
Grand Total                 111.0    978.8        143.0   1,404.4    107.0    1.200.3   361.0    3.583.5
1/ In 1977 prices.
Note: Does not include urban freeway Dariva-Brijesce-Butila.
Source: Republican Roads Organization.



- 54 -
Cost Estimates
3.85      The estimated costs of the three year program are given in Table
3.20. The foreign exchange component of the capital expenditure is estimated
at US$85.41 million.
Assessment
Institutional Capacity
3.86      The Republican Roads Organization in association with users' repre-
sentatives is capable of drawing up realistic plans and targets for its
highway programs. The Organization has developed a strong team to supervise
the operations of the maintenance enterprise, and also has a mature highway
planning and project management system, providing flexibility of procedures
and effectiveness in execution. Successful completion of complex civil
works such as the Ustipraca-Rogatica road construction in difficult and
mountainous terrain clearly demonstrates their technical and professional
capabilities and the strength of the local contracting industry. Comparison
of expenditures in constant price terms in Table 3.19 envisages only marginal
expansion of road construction and maintenance up to 1985. Careful attention
has been given to identification of project priorities. The local contracting
industry and roads maintenance enterprises are well organized to implement the
program on time under the overall guidance of the roads organization.
Financial Capability
3.87      Bosnia-Herzegovina has the resources to meet the local costs and the
residual foreign cost component and the demonstrable ability to perform the
work. Funds firmly identified, Table 3.22, more than cover the proposed
project costs, but do not cover provision for the urban freeway Dariva-Brijesce-
Butila which was outside the scope of the Master Plan Study.



- 55 -
Table 3.22: FINANCING THE ROAD PROGRAM
--     Dinar m--------  --------US$m----------
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina              1976/78 /1   1979/81 /2  1976/78 /2  1979/81 /2
(3 years)    (3 years)   (3 years)   (3 years)
Sources
1. Proceeds from Fuel Taxation)
and Funds of SR Bosnia       )
and Herzegovina              )
)
2. Loans from Yugoslav           )
Commercial Banks             )
)  5,6410.0      6,650.0       313.3         369.4
3. Local Funds (municipal        )
contributions)               )
)
4. Compensation from the         )
Funds for Underdeveloped )
Areas                         )
5. IBRD Loans                         128.0         630.0          7.1         35.0
Total                       5,768.0        7,280.0       320.4        404.4
/1   1976/78 figures are based on actuals for 1976 and the best estimate
for 1978.
/2   1979/81 estimated figures.
Note: Figures relate to calender years, tentative estimate for mid 1979-
mid 1982 is of the same order as 1979/81 calendar years.
Source: Republican Roads Organization.
Economic Viability
3.88      The Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the largest of the less-developed
Republics and Provinces of Yugoslavia, with a per capita income of about
two-thirds of the national average, had relatively low priority for road
development until the mid 1960s. The inadequate road network became an
impediment to the growth of key sectors of the economy and the realization
grew that development of the road network is essential to support the
economic development of the entire Republic. This new emphasis was reflected
in the rapid increase of expenditures for road construction and maintenance
which grew (in constant prices) tenfold during the last decade. The inter-
republican and the major intra-repubLican highway network is now substantially
complete. The current emphasis is, tFherefore, primarily directed to consoli-
date the work previously done and improve the system to facilitate smooth flow
of traffic and eliminate bottlenecks.



- 56 -
3.89      On certain main routes, traffic congestion is now heavy and main-
tenance costs are high; further deterioration of driving conditions on these
major routes such as Sarajevo-Mostar-Konjic would greatly impede the growth of
the key sectors of the economy.   On some of the less-travelled routes in
the poorer areas of the country, commercial haulers prefer to take long
detours to avoid road sections in poor condition. The proposed road sections
were included in the project taking these aspects into consideration; their
construction would benefit both long distance as well as local traffic.
3.90      The improvements proposed would help to reduce transport costs of
raw and processed agricultural goods, fuel, chemicals, wood and wood products
and construction materials. On certain sections of the existing network the
expected unit savings in these costs after completion of the project roads
would range up to 30% for passenger cars and up to 45% for buses and trucks.
3.91      The condition and characteristics of the existing links which are
to be improved are shown in Maps 10 and 11. Present and forecast traffic on
these sections are also shown therein.  Several alternative solutions for the
improvement of the project sections were evaluated and the most economic
solution was adopted in each case.
3.92      In some cases, the project sections are parallel to railroads or
provide transport services to the same termini as the railroads. Improvement
of these road sections, which are generally short (about 20 km or less), is
not expected to divert traffic from the railways which specialize in bulk
cargo and long distance passenger traffic.
3.93      On a conservative basis, the Republican Roads Organization has esti-
mated that savings in vehicle operating costs, passenger time and maintenance
costs on the project roads (Table 3.21) would yield rates of return ranging
from 13% to 24%. The program would, therefore, yield adequate economic
benefits and would meet varied needs of the Republic.
E. The Loan
3.94      The proposed Tenth Highway Loan of US$148.0 million wou'ld support
the first phase (a three-year tranche from mid 1979 to mid 1982) of the
1979-85 road programs of Kosovo, Montenegro, Vojvodina, Macedonia and Bosnia-
Herzegovina. The total cost of new commitments in this first phase is esti-
mated at about US$794.61 million or US$699.26 million excluding taxes and
duties with a foreign exchange component of about US$240.08 million. The Bank
will finance about 40% to 80% of the total foreign exchange component for new
commitments of these early years, as they become ready for financing, provided
certain general sector and subproject conditions (paras. 3.98-3.101) are met.
The loan allocation to each Republic/Province represents the amount it needs
to meet the shortfall in foreign exchange resources. The following general
apportionment of the Bank Loan was discussed with the Borrowers during loan
negotiations, with the understanding that if mutually agreed between them and
the Bank, the loan amounts allocated to the differenent categories within each
Republic/Province could be adjusted to accord with the actual pattern of imple-
mentation.



- 57 -
Table 3.23: TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (SECTOR LOAN)
US$ Million
Mid 1979       Mid 1980        Mid 1981
to             to              to
Mid 1980       Mid 1981        Mid 1982        Total
SR Kosovo
Capital Works
Interregional roads          1.86           2.69            3.31          7.86
Regional roads               3.78           5.57            3.79         13.14
Equipment                    0.30           0.30            0.30          0.90
Training                     0.03           0.04            0.03          0.10
Subtotal              5.97            8.60            7.43         22.00
SR Montenegro
Capital Works
Interregional roads          2.30           3.36            3.58          9.24
Regional Roads               3.73           4.11            2.62         10.46
Equipment                    0.07           0.06            0.07          0.20
Training                     0.03           0.04            0.03          0.10
Subtotal              6.13            7.57            6.30         20.00
SAP Vojvodina
Capital Works
Interregional roads         11.46          11.83            9.99         33.28
Regional Roads               1.11           1.11            0.00          2.22
Equipment                    0.13           0.13            0.14          0.40
Training                     0.03           0.03            0.04          0.10
Subtotal             12.73          13.10            10.17        36.00
SR Macedonia
Capital Works
Interregional roads          3.77           9.12           13.60         26.49
Regional roads               3.72           2.71            1.68          8.11
Equipment                    0.10           0.10            0.10          0.30
Training                     0.03           0.04            0.03          0.10
Subtotal              7.62          11.97           15.41         35.00
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina
Capital Works
Interregional roads          7.34          12.89           11.17         31.40
Regional roads               1.03           1.03            1.04          3.10
Equipment                    0.13           0.13            0.14          0.40
Training                     0.03           0.03            0.04          0.10
Subtotal              8.53          14.08           12.39         35.00
Total                40.98          55.32           51.70        148.00



- 58 -
3.95      The subprojects (Tables 3.5, 3.9, 3.13, 3.17 and 3.21) in which the
Bank could participate have been identified on the basis of broad economic and
traffic considerations; it is expected that the loan funds will be used to
execute them with the proviso that the list may be amended as a result of any
new developments brought to light in the annual review of the investment
plans.
3.96      For all procurement under the capital works of the proposed Tenth
Highway Project, the loan would be made to the Road Organizations of Kosovo,
Montenegro, Vojvodina, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, guaranteed by the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A condition of effectiveness would
be that the government of each participating Republic and Province will have
approved a guarantee to cover the financing, both local and residual foreign
exchange costs, of its respective road program (mid 1979-mid 1982), including
possible cost overruns.
3.97      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrowers
that they would complete, in a timely manner, not only the works partly
financed under the project but the agreed overall broad development and
maintenance programs as a whole.
F.   General Sector Conditions
3.98      The Bank will require the concerned Republican and Provincial
Road Organizations to meet, on a continuing basis, loan conditions aimed at
protecting the existing road system and ensuring timely implementation of the
road program. These conditions require each Borrower to:
(i) meet physical completion targets for construction/
improvement of the roads for different categories
(Tables 3.5, 3.9, 3.13, 3.17, 3.21);
(ii)  continue ensuring that all roads falling within its
jurisdiction will be adequately maintained in accord-
ance with sound engineering and financial practices,
and that funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefore will be provided promptly as needed;
(iii)  implement an agreed program of personnel training
(Annex 10);
(iv)  procure equipment as agreed (Annex 9);
(v) update the road program annually on a rolling plan
basis;
(vi)  take follow-up action to prepare the second phase
(mid 1982 to mid 1985) of its road program with
more detailed analyses and updated traffic data; and



- 59 -
(vii)  continue to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads
of vehicles using the roads do not exceed the design
limits of the roads.
3.99      Agreement on these sector conditions and the progress reports
(Annex 5) required to monitor compliance with them was reached during nego-
tiations. Investment Plans will be reviewed annually to take into account
current traffic flows and trends. The results of the Study of Road User
Charges (being executed under the terms of Highways VIII (Loan No. 1377-YU
of April 1977) should be available by March, 1979 for review, and important
recommendations arising therefrom would be discussed with the Federal Com-
mittee for Transport and Communications (para. 2.06) and pursued further for
implementation in cooperation with the concerned agencies.
G. Conditions for Subprojects
3.100     As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit will be established in the concerned Republican/Provincial
Road Organizations to bring forward sound subprojects (Tables 3.5, 3.9, 3.13,
3.17, 3.21) in a timely manner and to monitor implementation of these proj-
ects and evaluate their impact. This unit will particularly ensure that for
each subproject requiring Bank assistance, substantially completed detailed
engineering, together with contract drawings, documents including specifica-
tions, the economic viability analyses based on updated traffic flows are made
available for the Bank's review and agreement before loan funds are committed
for their implementation. During loan negotiations, agreements were reached
with the Borrowers that no material alterations should be made to the agreed
list of subprojects without the prior agreement of the Bank. The Unit will
also prepare program and progress reports (Annex 5), and, in due course, the
Project Completion Report. During negotiations, agreements were reached
on the Unit's terms of reference (Annex 6), on a timetable for establishing
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and on the criteria to be met for a sub-
project to be financed from the loan (para. 3.10 and Annex 4).
3.101     There will be no retroactive financing of ongoing road works,
the construction contracts for which will have been signed before mid 1979,
the time of loan signature.
H. Implementation
Responsibility
3.102     The Road Organizations of the five participating Republics and
the Autonomous Provinces would be responsible for executing the respective
construction works. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would
be that the participating Republics/'Provinces will have adopted the legal
authority authorizing the construction of their respective project road
sections.



- 60 -
3.103      Supervision of the construction and maintenance works would be
effected by the Road Organizations themselves assisted as in the past by the
Yugoslav consulting engineers and technical institutes which prepared the
highway master plans and the detailed engineering.
3.104     The CRO would again act as fiscal agent for the project, coordinator
of disbursement requests to the Bank, and act as liaison agent between the
Republics/Provinces and the Bank on project-related matters. The CRO would
also be responsible for the procurement of traffic counters, road maintenance
and load monitoring equipment and training program provided for under the
loan. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the concerned Republics/
Provinces and the Federal Government will have delegated authority to CRO to
undertake these obligations.
3.105     The Federal Committee for Transport and Communications would be
responsible for implementation of urgent recommendations arising from the
study of Road User Charges.
Procurement
3.106      Construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement" for all Bank-assisted subprojects. Contracts would be of
such a size as to encourage the participation of foreign contractors, but yet
to permit maximum participation of the local industry, allowing firms to bid
for one or more sections up to their prequalified capacity. Contractors would
be prequalified for the works. To attract the interest of foreign bidders,
embassies in Yugoslavia would be notified of the invitation to prequalify,
which would also be published in the "Development Forum" and appropriate
foreign journals. As bidding documents for many of the subprojects have
already been prepared, prequalification procedures began in January 1979.
Bids for the first installment of contracts would be invited around May/June
1979 leading to contract awards to the lowest evaluated bidders in August/
September 1979. Contracts will include a satisfactory price-escalation
clause.  The equipment provided for under the projects would be purchased
after International Competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guide-
lines for Procurement", giving domestic manufacturers as usual a margin of
preference of 15% based on c.i.f. prices or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower. The CRO will coordinate requests for personnel training
and arrange courses accordingly as under previous projects.
Land Acquisition for Right-of-Way
3.107     The concerned Republican and Provincial Governments are at present
acquiring the land needed to build the project road sections. Although no
major problems are foreseen, during loan negotiations assurances were obtained
from the Borrowers that they would make available all right-of-way as needed
for the timely implementation of the project.



- 61 -
Project Implementation Schedule
3.108     The phased construction schedule of the subprojects included in
the three-yea  (mid 1979-mid 1982) program is shown in Annex 7.  The procure-
ment of traffic counters, load monitoring and road maintenance equipment
should be completed by the end of 1981. The project implementation schedule
(Annex 7) as well as the appropriate progress reporting procedures (Annex 5)
were discussed and confirmed with the Borrowers during loan negotiations.  The
Borrowers were also asked to prepare a Project Completion Report within six
months of the Loan Closing Date. The data used in the preparation of the
project and the source material are listed in Annex 8.
I., Disbursements
3.109     The proceeds of the proposed Tenth Highway loan would finance about
40% to 80% of foreign exchange components of the capital works of Kosovo,
Montenegro, Vojvodina, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina during the three-year
period mid 1979-mid 1982, as well as the foreign exchange costs of the equip-
ment procurement and training for these participating Republics and Provinces
for the entire three-year project period.
3.110     Based on the loan becoming effective in July 1979, the following
schedule of disbursements (Table 3.24) has been estimated. This schedule was
discussed and confirmed with the Borrowers during loan negotiations.



- 62 -
Table 3.24: TENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (SECTOR LOAN) -
SCHEDULE OF CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Disbursement at end of Quarter
IBRD Fiscal                                                        Bosnia-
Year and Quarter    Kosovo  Montenegro  Vojvodina  Macedonia  Herzegovina  Total
1979/80
September 30, 1979   1.32          1.20        2.16        2.10         2.10       8.88
December 31, 1979    1.76          1.60        2.88        2.80         2.80      11.84
March 31, 1980         2.64        2.40        4.32        4.20         4.20      17.76
June 30, 1980          3.52        3.20        5.76        5.60         5.60      23.68
1980/81
September 30, 1980   4.84         4.40         7.92        7.70         7.70      32.56
December 31, 1980    6.16          5.60       10.08        9.80         9.80      41.44
March 31, 1981         7.70        7.00       12.60       12.25        12.25      51.80
June 30, 1981          9.90        9.00       16.20       15.75        15.75      66.60
1981/82
September 30, 1981  12.32         11.20       20.16       19.60        19.60      82.88
December 31, 1981   14.74         13.40       24.12       23.45        23.45      99.16
March 31, 1982        17.16       15.60       28.08       27.30        27.30    115.44
June 30, 1982         19.36       17.60       31.68       30.80        30.80    130.24
1982/83
September 30, 1982  21.12         19.20       34.56       33.60        33.60    142.08
December 31, 1982   22.00         20.00       36.00       35.00        35.00    148.00
J.  Project Risks and the Environment
3.111     The Road Organizations of the Borrowers concerned with civil works
have all participated satisfactorily in earlier Bank highway projects. Each
entity executes efficiently its annual program of work. As this project is
the first in Yugoslavia to be implemented on a sectoral basis, supervision by
the Bank will be more demanding. Some of the project appraisal functions,
such as the technical and economic review of subprojects to ensure compliance
with agreed criteria prior to financing from the loans, must of necessity be
carried out by supervision missions. However, the Bank's considerable expe-
rience with the Borrowers' agencies in project execution, and its knowledge of
their management capabilities, do not suggest the presence of any significant
risks in these connections.
3.112     Neither is the project expected to have an adverse environmental
impact. In fact, by reducing traffic congestion, a reduction in accidents
and air pollution will also result.



- 63 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1       During negotiations agreement was reached with the Borrowers on the
following principal issues:
(i) that they would meet the construction targets detailed in Tables
3.5, 3.9, 3.13, 3.17 and 3.21 (para. 3.98 (i));
(ii)  update the road development plans annually (para. 3.98 (v)); and
(iii) not materially alter the agreed lists of subprojects without the
prior agreement of the Bank (para. 3.100).
4.2       Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that the Borrowers:
(i) will each have established a Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit in accordance with Terms of Reference agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.100 and Annex 6);
(ii) will have given a guarantee covering the financing of their
respective road programs (mid 1979-mid 1982) including possible
cost overruns (para. 3.96);
(iii) will have adopted the legal authority for constructing the
roads detailed in their development programs (para. 3.102); and
(iv) will have delegated authority to CRO to act as fiscal agent for
the project, as coordinator of disbursement requests on the Bank,
as liaison between the Borrowers and the Bank on project-related
matters, as coordinator of the personnel training programs, and
to procure the equipment to be provided under the project (para.
3.104).
4.3       With the understanding indicated above, the project would be suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$148.0 million to the Road Organizations of Kosovo,
Montenegro, Vojvodina, Bosnia-Herzegovina and to Macedonia for a 15-year term
including a 3-year grace period.



- 64 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
Previous Projects
1.        So far the Bank has lent US$856 million in total to the transport
sector, including US$356 million for nine highway projects, US$108 million for
two pipeline projects, US$348 million for five railway projects and US$44 mil-
lion for the Bar Port Project.
Highway Projects
2.        The First Highway Project (Loan 344-YU, US$35 million) was financed
in 1963 for the completion of the coastal section of the Adriatic Highway (422
km) and parts of the Belgrade-Nis road (174 km).  The Second Highway Project
(Loan 485-YU, US$10 million), financed in 1967, was for the improvement of 367
km of roads connecting the Zagreb-Belgrade highway via Sarajevo and Tuzla with
the Adriatic highway. Both projects were completed within the original cost
estimates and agreed time schedules. The Third (Loan 608-YU, US$30 million),
financed in 1969, comprised about 120 km of roads in Croatia, Macedonia and
Slovenia, and was completed in August 1974 with a 20-month delay primarily due
to delays in completing an access road, but which did not impede the operation
of the main highway. This project had an 8% cost overrun, because of infla-
tion and foreign exchange adjustments. The Operations Evaluation Department's
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1385, December 10, 1976), highlights the
completion of the Third Highway Project with most of the civil works carried
out close to the appraisal schedule. The Audit Report (No. 1385), however,
emphasizes the need to adequately study tolls, so that their imposition does
not impede the optimum use of roads and this caution has been taken into
account in later projects. The Fourth (Loan 678-YU, US$40 million) was
financed in 1970 for the construction of about 220 km of roads in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia and Vojvodina. Because of expropria-
tion problems in the section of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the project was completed
in December 1975 with an 18-month delay. There was a 12% cost overrun due
to inflation and foreign exchange adjustments. The Audit Report (No. 1632,
June 15, 1977) highlights the difficulties encountered in securing right-of-
way, even after assurances were made to the Bank that right-of-way and loca-
tion had been settled before negotiations.   Such difficulties, the Audit
Report observes, stem from the decentralization of authority in Yugoslavia,
which enables bodies such as Communities of Interest groups to appeal and over-
turn decisions on location and right-of-way after they have been taken. There
seems to be no easy solution to this problem but more communication between
all groups concerned is being sought to achieve better results. The Fifth
Highway Project (Loan 751-YU, US$35 million) became effective 8 months late



-65 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 2
due to Government administrative delays. The project comprises 153 km of
roads in Kosovo, Macedonia and Slovenia, procurement of US$1.7 million worth
of engineering equipment, consultants' services and a staff training component
to improve highway planning and project preparation. All roads are open for
traffic. The engineering equipment has been delivered and the consultant's
services were completed satisfactorily. The staff training component was
delayed because of difficulties encountered in securing training of candidates
in the head office of foreign consultants and in foreign institutes and because
of language problems (insufficient candidates proficient in English). Con-
sequently, a restricted program was adopted. Because of the delay in training,
the project was completed by the end of 1977, involving a delay of about 15
months. This project had an 8% cost overrun because of the combined effect of
inflation and foreign exchange adjustments. The loan for the Sixth Highway
Project (Loan 990-YU, US$30 million) was made in May 1974 and became effective
six weeks later than estimated in December 1974. The project finances six
roads sections in Bosnia-Herzegovina, totalling 150 km, the training of trans-
portation economists and road engineers and US$1.1 million worth of engineer-
ing and laboratory equipment. Requests for some changes in road alignments
were agreed in order to provide better service to two communities. Civil works
have been completed satisfactorily, and all roads are open to traffic. In view
of the difficulties encountered in the earlier project, a part of the training
program is being modified by inviting foreign consultants and specialists to
give training courses in Yugoslavia which can be undertaken in both English
and Serbo-Croatian. It is expected that the project will be completed by the
end of 1978, involving a delay of about 12 months. The loan for the Seventh
Highway Project (Loan 1143-YU, US$40 million) was made in July 1975 and became
effective in March 1976. The project comprises about 90 km of road construc-
tion in Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro, and US$0.1 million worth of technical
assistance to improve preparation of highway feasibility studies and to provide
a related training program. The work has progressed satisfactorily in Serbia
but is slightly behind schedule in Montenegro and Slovenia, because of expro-
priation problems and the challenging difficulties presented by the swampy
terrain in Slovenia. The Eighth Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU, US$56
million) was made in April 1977 and became effective in September 1977. The
project comprises about 130 km of roads in Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Kosovo, studies by consultants of road-user charges and rail
costs and technical assistance for the preparation of a highway master plan
for Kosovo. All road contracts are awarded and work has started on all the
contracts. The Ninth Highway Project (Loan 1535-YU, US$80 million) was made
in April 1978 and became effective in August 1978. The project comprises
construction of four highly-congestedl sections of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway
(TYH) in Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, totalling about 86 km, and the procure-
ment of equipment for maintenance andl for monitoring loadings of vehicles
using the primary highway network, including TYH. Contractor prequalification
for all project road sections have been approved and the construction con-
tracts awarded for a road section in Croatia. Construction works for all nine
projects have been or are being satisfactorily carried out, reflecting the
competence of the Yugoslav contracting.



- 66 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
Naftagas and 0ii Pipeline Projects
3.         The loan for the Naftagas Project (Loan 916-YU, US$59.4 million) was
made in June 1973, but, due to organizational reform within the Enterprise,
became effective only in March 1974 after six month's delay. The project is
for the expansion of the gas transmission and distribution systems in Serbia
and Vojvodina by provision of gas field compressors, pipelines, treatment
plants and distribution rings. The supply of natural gas will come from gas
fields in Vojvodina and from Hungarian imports. Due to a substantial increase
in the project costs and a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural
gas, which caused the elimination of some consumers who withdrew their finances
from the project, a delay of more than two years in project implementation has
occurred.   It has been decided that the implementation will be carried out in
three phases and only the first two will be implemented now. The additional
funds required will be provided by agencies in Yugoslavia and by a supple-
mentary loan of US$11 million from the Bank under the Sarajevo Air Pollution
Control Project, Loan 1264-YU. Construction started in late June 1976 and the
project is scheduled for completion shortly. The loan for the Oil Pipeline
Project (Loan 1173-YU, US$49.0 million subsequently revised to US$48.5 million)
was made in November 1975 and became effective in July 1976 after four month's
delay. The project comprises the construction of an oil port on the Adriatic
coast at Omisalj, near Rijeka, as well as oil storage tank farms, pumping
stations, and the pipelines running from the port through Croatia and Vojvodina
and to the Hungarian border. Stage I is to provide a yearly capacity of 16
million tons and Stage II, 20 million.  The international transit portion
of Stage I, which is to provide oil to Hungary and Czechoslovakia, should be
completed early in 1979, but the domestic portion, due to problems of design
and procurement, will be completed later in the year. Stage II should also be
completed before the end of 1979.
Railways
4.         The First Railway Loan (Loan 361-YU, US$35 million) was made in 1963
and was substantially completed and put into operation in 1970, i.e., with a
delay of about two years. The Second Railway Loan (Loan 395-YU, US$70 million)
was made in 1964 to help finance a Modernization Program for the main lines.
The Program, which covers electrification, signalling, telecommunications and
marshalling yards, was to be executed between 1964 and 1968, at an estimated
cost of US$185 million, but due to long delays, completion is not expected
before 1979 at over twice the original cost estimated in U.S. dollar terms.
The Bank loan was fully disbursed in November 1972 and completion of the
Program is being assisted by the Fourth Loan (below). The Third Railway Loan
(Loan 531-YU, US$50 million) in 1968 helped to finance the completion of 372
km of the Belgrade-Bar line. Completion was originally scheduled for 1973,
but geo-technical and other construction problems in difficult mountainous
terrain delayed the opening of the line until 1976. The cost estimate has
increased from IJS$225 million to about US$422 million. The Fourth Railway
Loan (1026-YU, US$93 million) was made in July 1974 and became effective by



- 67 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 4
the revised date of February 1975. T'he loan finances the completion of the
1964 Modernization Program and certain related investments, including track
rehabilitation and further signalling works, which are needed to maximize the
benefits of the program, all to be completed by the end of 1976. There have
been certain delays in project execution due principally to financial and
administrative difficulties. Governtnent efforts to combat severe inflation
have caused rates to lag too far behind the increase in railway costs. The
resulting financial problems and other issues relating to the railways' effi-
ciency are being addressed by newly created Communities of Interest. Con-
siderable progress has been made on institutional developments notably in
planning and management of investments and strengthening the Community of
Yugoslav Railways. The Fifth Railway Loan (Loan 1534-YU, US$100 million) was
made in April 1978 and became effective in September 1978. The project covers
the three year 1978-80 tranche of the railways 1976/80 Investment Plan with
-he principal objective to modernize railway facilities in order to improve
further the efficiency and the competitive position of the railways.
Port of Bar Project
5.         The loan (Loan 1060-YU, US$44 million) was made in November 1974
to finance port development and related railway facilities. The loan became
effective on June 13, 1975. Major civil works components are completed
except for a grain silo, for which final designs are awaited. Railway works
outside the port area, being dndertaken by the Railway Transport Enterprise,
Belgrade, have been delayed because of problems in expropriating private
dwellings on the needed land. The closing date has been postponed to June 30,
1980.



68 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Study of Road User Charges
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.         The Government of Yugoslavia has been reviewing transport policies
and considers Road User Charges (RUC) to be an important element of its trans-
port pricing policies, which deserve a thorough examination, especially in
view of the energy crisis. The Government intends to ensure, through appro-
priate RUC optimal utilization of the road network infrastructure, sound
development of road transport and fair competition amongst different modes.
2.         Available information on RUC indicates that in Yugoslavia the total
revenue from taxes on gasoline and oil, license fees as well as the revenue
from taxes paid by foreign motor vehicles entering Yugoslavia, yielded about
Dinar 6.0 billion (US$0.33 billion) in 1974, compared to a total outlay of
about Dinar 5.6 billion (US$0.31 billion) on the construction and maintenance
of all inter-urban highways. However, this information is not adequate for a
full evaluation of RUC since revenues do not include the receipts from certain
charges collected by local authorities while the expenditures on maintenance
and construction do not cover the entire urban and municipal road networks.
Also, RUC needs to be related not only to maintenance and construction costs,
but also to all other related administrative and social costs, including con-
gestion costs.   Furthermore, even if revenues covered total costs, there may
not be a direct relation between specific user charges on different types of
vehicles, especially heavy trucks, and the infrastructure costs for which they
are accountable. The Government realizes that, if serious distortions in RUC
were to exist, they could prevent optimum utilization of the road network and
lead to distortions in traffic flows within and between different transport
modes. The Government is, therefore, interested in commissioning a comprehen-
sive study of RUC as a basis for taking appropriate action for improving and
removing any deficiencies that exist in the present system.
3.         In view of the great importance Government attaches to the Study,
it intends to establish a Steering Committee to follow the progress of the
Study and to provide the Consultants with guidance as requested.
Objectives of the Study
4.         The Study shall determine whether the existing system and levels of
RUC for different types of road vehicles are adequate to ensure optimum util-
ization and development of the road network, at present and in the future, and



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
to cover the infrastructure and other costs attributable to different users.
The Study shall propose reasonable alternative remedies for correcting any
distortions or deficiencies which may exist in the present system and levels
of RUC.
5.         As part of the above general objectives, the Study shall in par-
ticular:
(i)   examine the fiscal, economic and administrative aspects
of the present system of levying RUC, taxing vehicles
and allocating resources to the highway sector in
Yugoslavia;
(ii)   determine clearly the existing levels of RUC on dif-
ferent vehicle types and distinguish clearly actual
RUC from other duties, levies and taxes imposed on the
economy in general;
(iii)   compare RUC in YugoslaviaL with those of selected
countries of the European Economic Community (EEC);
(iv)   estimate and evaluate thet total revenues from all RUC
and the distribution of t:hese revenues amongst the
authorized agencies;
(v)   identify clearly the maintenance, investment, adminis-
trative, social and other costs for which different
types of road users should be accountable;
(vi)   estimate incidence of RUG on cost of transport and
retail price of principal commodities;
(vii)   recommend alternative solutions of improving the zystem
of RUC with particular reference to the general objec-
tives indicated in para. 4 above.
Scope of the Study
6.         The Study will set out first the existing structure and level of
present RUC for each major vehicle type, estimate the revenue accruing from
these charges and their distribution amongst the various authorities. The
general effect of these on transport prices of passenger travel and principal
commodities will then be determined.
7.         On the assumption that existing tax levels and vehicle regulations
remain unchanged, future revenues will be projected and the economic effects
assessed.
8.         The Study shall assess, to the extent possible, the costs for which
different types of road users should be accountable and the reasonable level



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
of RUC by vehicle types, particularly heavy trucks which inflict the most
damage on the roads. In this context, the Study shall identify and quantify
all RUC such as taxes, fees and duties levied on road users, including
general sales taxes, tolls, import duties, etc., and shall clearly identify
which, or which part, of these charges are to be considered as specific RUC
and as payment for use of road facilities and other related services. The
Study shall estimate total revenues from all RUC as well as from specific RUC
and their distribution amongst the various authorities.
9.         The Study should ideally cover the entire road network--inter-urban,
urban and municipal network. However, to cover all roads in the country would
require an extraordinary effort in data collection, processing and analysis.
The Government wants to limit the coverage and scope of the present Study to
the collection and analysis of information that is readily available. There-
fore, the main focus of the Study shall be on the inter-urban network and the
determination of appropriate pricing policies for this network. However, the
Study shall also cover the urban and municipal networks as necessary to show
to what extent the recommended pricing policies for the inter-urban network
would be appropriate and/or inappropriate for the urban and municipal net-
works, and indicate in a general manner to which extent and/or in which
manner the pricing policies should be modified or supplemented by other mea-
sures to achieve the same objectives.
10.       The Study shall cover maintenance and road improvement expenditures,
at present and in the foreseeable future, and also administrative costs such
as expenses on traffic police, signalling, street lighting and all quantifiable
social costs such as congestion costs. Where major social costs or other
costs cannot be quantified, such as noise pollution, the Study shall identify
and explain them in broad qualitative terms.
11.        The Study shall clearly describe the existing and proposed system
of collecting the different types of RUC and estimate the administrative and
other costs of their collection, as well as all their advantages and dis-
advantages to achieving the objectives indicated in para. 4 above.
12.       The Study will then consider alternative road pricing policies and
regulations setting out the advantages and disadvantages of each--and indicate
and quantify their relative economic and fiscal implications and recommend the
user charges which should be levied on each of the selected vehicle types.
Data, Local Services and Facilities to Be Provided by the Government
13.       The Government shall provide the Consultants entrusted with the
Study with all available data on:
(a)   present pricing policy and transport regulations and
such changes to these as are currently being contem-
plated by the Government;



- 71 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
(b)   transport costs and revenues, including national and
local taxes;
(c)   the operations and accounting systems of the Government
agencies and local authorities responsible for trans-
port maintenance and adminiLstration;
(d)   previous studies sponsored by the Government on Trans-
portation and on development that will have a bearing
on the proposed Study; and
(e)   such data on fiscal and financial policy which would
materially assist the Study.
Time Schedule
14.       The Study shall commence, including field surveys, within 30 calen-
dar days of the effective date of this contract and the Consultants shall
submit the following reports within the time period mentioned against each:
(i) Inception Report - within two months specifying in particular:
(a) Methodology; and
(b) Data Requirement and Availability (_ copies in Serbo-
Croatian, _  copies in English);
(ii) Progress Report - every two months following submission of
the Inception Report and until conclusion of work in the
field;
(iii) Interim Report - a summary of the initial findings within
six months of the contract effective date (_ copies in
Serbo-Croatian, _ copies in English);
(iv) Draft Final Report - within nine months of the contract
effective date (_ copies in Serbo-Croatian, _  copies in
English); and
(v)  Final Report - within 45 days of receipt of comments on the
Draft Final Report from the Government (_ copies in Serbo-
Croatian, _ copies in English).



- 72 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Highway Master Plan Study
A.   Objectives
1.        The purpose of the Study is to provide:
(i)  a general highway master plan, and cost estimates therefor,
for the period 1979-85 formulating a concept of long-term
development of the road network including a maintenance plan;
(ii) a detailed highway investment program for the period 1979-82
including the ranking of the proposed projects based on eco-
nomic priorities, and subsequent highway investment programs
in outline which shall cover the period 1983-85, and also
including a preliminary ranking of proposed projects by
economic priorities;
(iii) a program to improve the highway administration to enable it
to update the maintenance and investment programs and to
implement them in an efficient manner.
2.         As part of the above general objectives, the Study shall in par-
ticular:
(i)  examine availability of financial means with regard to the
investment program;
(ii)  sug,est ways and means for bridging the resource gap, if any,
with particular reference to the completion of high priority
works; and
(iii) prepare a list of roads to be subject to feasibility studies,
and carry out feasibility studies of approximately 200 km of
the highest priority highways for improvement or construction.
B.   Scope of the Study
3.        The Study shall cover all types of roads excluding municipal roads
except as required to ensure full realization of the benefits from the
improvements of the non-municipal roads in the investment programs.



- 73-                      ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The Study shall review all available data and rcports on the
existing highway network of the Province/Republic concerned and shall also, as
appropriate, conduct visual inspection and reconnaissance surveys of the road
system. This inspection and survey shall result in an inventory of the high-
way network that will indicate by major road sections, the general geometric
and construction standards, capacity of structures, mileage and geographic
distribution, present state of maintenance and general adequacy for present
traffic.
5.        The Consultants shall analyze all existing highway traffic data.
If the Consultants find that additional traffic counts and origin-destination
studies are required to determine the nature of the traffic and the present
volume of freight and passenger movements by road, the necessary additional
counts and other field investigations shall be undertaken by the Consultants
in cooperation with the Provincial/Republican Roads Organization. The Con-
sultants shall also assist the Provincial/Republican Roads Organization in
the establishment and operation of a continuous year-round traffic counting
system over the primary and secondary (Class 1-2-3) roads, which can serve to
measure daily and seasonal patterns and the yearly growth of traffic.
6.        The Study shall review current procedures and policies as well as
the organization, staffing, equipment, operation and executive capacity of the
agencies of the Provincial/Republican Road Organization responsible for plan-
ning, constructing and maintaining the highway system. The Consultants shall
propose a program of possible improvements, including contractual and other
procedures, staff training and equipment needs.
7.         The Study shall compare current and proposed expenditures on main-
tenance and construction of highways and recommend a reasonable time-phased
maintenance and investment program to meet the needs of the region. In making
these recommendations the Study shall fully take into consideration the current
Plan of the Province/Republic regarding size and timing of highway investments
required to serve the highway needs of the region. In this context the Study
shall carry out an initial evaluationL of the alternative road improvements and
extensions by analyzing the anticipated economic benefits and costs of new
investments required. Based on these analyses the Study shall determine the
relative priorities of new investments.
8.        The focus of the Highway Master Plan shall be on such factors as:
(i) the adequacy of the proposed program in relation to the
region;
(ii) the balance of investments in main roads, secondary roads and
feeder roads;
(iii) the appropriate role of highway investments in relation to other
modes of transport;
(iv) the adequacy of the planned program of maintenance; and



- 74 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 3
(v) the adequacy of the existing organizations for handling all
highway network matters such as highway administration, pro-
curement procedures, construction supervision, budgeting and
planning, etc.
9.        The Highway Investment Plan shall distinguish between:
(i) improvements of the existing network; and
(ii) the construction of new links.
The Master Plan shall first identify high-priority investments, including
improvements in maintenance needed to achieve optimum use of the existing net-
work and shall prepare an action plan for the implementation of these projects.
The Investment Plan shall furthermore identify priority projects and new links
justified to meet existing traffic flows and to meet the future development
requirements of the region. The plans cover a period of 7 years (1979-85),
divided into two phases 1979-82 and 1983-85. The first phase plans shall be
reasonably firm and detailed; the plans for the second phase will be indica-
tive.
10.       The Consultants shall prepare a list of roads to be subject to
feasibility studies. The investment plans shall take into account and indi-
cate the present status of preparation of various subprojects and related
feasibility studies, the scope of additional preparation to be undertaken and
reasonable estimates of the time required to complete feasibility studies,
preparatory works, bidding procedures and construction, particularly for the
first phase plans 1979-82. The Consultants shall also carry out feasibility
studies of approximately 200 km of high-priority roads for improvement or
construction.
11.       Sufficient reconnaissance surveys shall be carried out to permit
estimates of principal quantities of high-priority works, with a margin of
error not to exceed about 25%.   The cost estimates will include an adequate
provision for both quantity overruns and price increases and identify them
separately.   The construction costs estimate shall identify the component of
foreign and local currency required for various projects.
12.       The study shall also highlight:
(i) availability of financial means with regard to the investment
program; and
(ii) arrangements for bridging the resource gap, if any, with par-
ticular reference to the completion of high-priority works.
C.   Cooperation of Governmental Agencies
13.       The Provincial/Republican Road Organization will designate an
officer for day-to-day liaison and make available to the Consultants the



- 75 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 4
services of an adequate number of couniterparts familiar with local conditions
of the Province/Republic concerned.   The Road Organization will also ensure
that the Consultants have access to all information, maps, previous reports
and studies required for completion of the services.
D.   Time Schedule
14.       The field work shall commence within 30 calendar days of the effec-
tive date of this contract.   The Consultants shall submit the following
reports within the time periods mentioned against each:
(i) Inception Report - a summary of the initial findings, including
data requirements and availability, and an outline of their
future work program, within two months of the contract effec-
tive date;
(ii) Progress Reports - every two months following submission of the
Inception Report and until conclusion of field work;
(iii) Interim Report - within six months of the contract effective date,
containing all information and results in a preliminary form;
(iv) Draft Final Report - withini nine months of the contract effective
date; and
(v) Final Report - within 45 days of receipt of comments on the Draft
Final Report from the Government.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Road Program
1.        Under sector lending, as explained in CPM No. 8.3, "Highway Sector
Lending," the Bank accepts that it is neither possible nor necessary for rates
of return to be calculated at appraisal for each subproject in the Program
based on detailed feasibility and economic studies. Indeed, the actual sub-
projects or program components to be financed (e.g., strengthening/widening
a road from A to B) need not be identified at the time of loan submission
because the Bank would have an agreement on the total program and confidence
in the borrower's capacity to plan and bring forward sound subprojects in
a timely manner. Nevertheless, the Roads Organizations cf all the five
Republics/Provinces concerned have undertaken a road network analysis of all
interregional and regional roads as well as a considerable amount of eco-
nomic analyses in cooperation with the respective consultants engaged for the
preparation of the highway master plan(s). Tentative improvement/maintenance
proposals are based on the following broad considerations (paras. I to 12)
and the Republican Road Organizations have prepared for each of the proposed
subprojects an evaluation sheet on which the key technical, design, cost,
traffic and economic information is summarized (enclosure). This information
will be updated from time to time to enable review of project scope on the
rolling plan basis.
A. Bituminous Paving of Gravel Roads
2.        Bituminous paving of gravel roads primarily results in savings
in vehicle operating costs and, above specified traffic levels, in road
maintenance costs. In addition, such improvements also reduce accident costs
and travel time for traffic using the existing facilities. Rates of return
were computed taking into consideration only the principal benefits, namely,
savings in maintenance and operational costs, and other benefits due to
safety, increased comfort and travel time savings have not been considered.
B.   Strengthening/Widening of Existing Paved Roads
(i) Strengthening
3.        Many of the major intercity roads are being subjected to heavier
axle loads, and in many cases heavier traffic volumes than they were designed
for, with consequent rapid pavement deterioration and shortened life, and the
rLsk of serious pavement failures in the future. Usually in such cases two
alternative courses of action are possible (a) applying an overlay as an
immediate strengthening procedure, or (b) to completely reconstruct those
sections after they fail. Economic analysis was made on the basis that if



ANNEX 4
Page 2
the overlays were not applied, vehicle operating costs on the progressively
deteriorating pavement would be higher, and the failed sections would require
complete reconstruction after, say, ten years at a relatively higher cost than
that of the immediate overlay. Further, the disruption to traffic during
reconstruction would be much greater than during overlay works, but such
benefits to the overlay alternative have not been included.
(ii) Widening
4.        A considerable part of the existing roads have about 4 to 5 meter-
wide bituminous carriageway with earth shoulders. Consequently, vehicles must
pass each other with their near-side wheels running on the earth shoulders
until the carriageway is clear again. As traffic volumes increase, the
shoulders are subjected to increasing wear and tear, and as they are not
designed to pavement strength, but only to provide lateral support to the
carriageway, they cannot sustain repeated wheel loads without intensive
maintenance. Thus the benefits of widening the pavement normally includes
savings in vehicle operating costs, travel time and maintenance costs, and
these savings have been taken into account in the analyses.
C.   New Construction of Highways
5.        In recognition of the seriousness of the mounting coagestion problems
and the increasing problem of maintaining the road under heavy traffic, new
construction of some highway sections were considered.  Different alternative
solutions were evaluated such as improving or reconstructing the exist-
ing road, constructing a new one, the stage construction of the pavement, etc.
The quantified economic benefits consist of savings in vehicle operating
costs, passenger time and road maintenance costs.
6.        For business trips made within the influence area of the project
roads, time savings were valued at 1.1 times average hourly wage rate to take
some account of overhead costs. Since, however, the value of time for non-
business trips is more difficult to establish, these were given a conservative
value of 1/4 times average hourly wage rate.  Benefits due L.  increased
comfort, convenience and safety have not been considered.
7.        For each project section, the most economical alternative in terms
of total transportation cost has been selected. In determining the economic
viability of the different subprojeczts, the rational allocation of future
freight and passenger movements between road and rail facilities whenever
relevant, has been taken into account with due regard to their service
characteristics and total distribution costs.
D.   Economic Evaluation of Maintenance Program
8.        The costs of preventing, through maintenance, the failure of a
roadway are less than the costs incurred in periodically rebuilding it.
The optimal level of maintenance, however, depends on the marginal costs of
increasing maintenance effort (beyond that which would just prevent the



- 78 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 3
roadway from complete failure) vis-a-vis the decrease in user costs. For the
purpose of economic analyses certain discrete levels of maintenance based on
physical and administrative capabilities of the organizations concerned were
considered and the economic costs of the program were compared with the
economic benefits resulting from savings in operating costs to road users.
9.        Road users' savings represented the difference in vehicle operating
costs between the present level of maintenance and the proposed level of
maintenance. If the present maintenance effort were inadequate, and if main-
tenance in the future were limited to this level, there would be a deteriora-
tion of the road network which would increase year by year, especially on
those links with growing traffic. This deterioration would gradually increase
future user costs, which were estimated by adjusting present user costs by
appropriate factors reflecting likely road deteriorations.
10.       The analyses were carried out mainly on a link-by-link basis.  About
80% of the total inter-regional and regional network under maintenance was
evaluated, with only those links which are scheduled to be improved within the
three-year mid 1972-mid 1982 period excluded.
E.   General
11.       For those subprojects (such as those with agricultural orientation)
where developmental benefits are significant, economic analyses based on the
producer surplus (value-added) concept should be carried out taking due note
of changes in consumer surplus whenever relevant. For each sub-project two
analyses should be made; one based on conditions 'with' the proposed sub-
project, and the other based on 'without' the proposed sub-project. In the
first the incomes of the farmers within the influence area of the subproject
and the truckers serving them should be calculated, as should be the expendi-
tures incurred by the farmers in their expanded agricultural activities, and
the additional farming investments needed. Similar calculations should be
made for the other situation 'without' the proposed road investment and
complementary agricultural investments, and the difference between the two
sets would give a measure of the costs/benefits to be derived from the sub-
project.
12.       Finally, to test the sensitivity of the rates of return to adverse
variations in costs and benefits, they should be recalculated assuming that
construction costs have increased 10% to 15% with a simultaneous decrease in
projected traffic flows of the same proportions. Under these adverse assump-
tions the subprojects should remain viable to qualify for financing from the
loans.



- 79 -
Enclosure to
ANNEX 4
YUGOSLAVIA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Evaluation Sheet for Subprolect (Example)
1.  Basic Data                Road:
Section:
Length (in km):
Cross section present:
Cross section proposed:
Pavement: proposed:
Design class:
2.  Traffic (AADT)                      Car   Truck   Bus   Total
1977:
1982:
3. Cost Estimate
(in US$ 'OOO)
4.  Operational Cost                    Car   Truck   Bus
(per km)                           (Dinar net of taxes)
Old road:
Improved
road:
5.  Economic Data              FYBR
E.R.
6.  Tender                     Tentative tender date:
Completion time:
7. Technical Description (one paragraph)
8. Economic Description (one paragraph)
9. Location Map
10. Alternatives Considered



- 80 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1.        Two types of progress reports would be submitted regularly:  Program
Progress Reports and Subproject Progress Reports. Both types of reports will
be prepared by the concerned Road Organization of the different Republics/
Provinces in cooperation with road transport agencies wherever necessary.
Program Progress Reports
2.        Program Progress Reports would be submitted at six-month intervals,
commencing with the six months ending December 19, 1979. These reports would
indicate progress in implementing each major component of the Program and
would contain the following information:
Component                       Information Required
Road Construction/Improvement            For each class of road: 1/
(i) physical progress to date of report
and during reperting period;
(ii) comparison of physical progress with
implementation schedule;
(iii)  reasons for deviations from schedule
and proposals for corrective action
where appropriate;
(iv) projections of likely progress in
following reporting period;
(v) expenditure to date of report and
during reporting period;
(vi) comparison of actual expenditure
with Program and reasons for any
deviations, with particular atten-
tion to trends in unit costs; and
1/   Class 1, 2, 3 including feeder roads (or Inter-regional and Regional roads
separately).



- 81--                       ANNEX 5
Page 2
(vii)  projections of likely expenditure
in following reporting period.
Road Maintenance                        (i)  list of routine and periodic main-
tenance work performed during the
reporting period;
(ii)  comparison of actual performance
with program and reasons for any
deviations; and
(iii)  work targets for following reporting
period.
Institution Building                    (i)  details of training courses offered
and number of trainees trained during
reporting period;
(ii)  comparison of actual training with
program, and reasons for any devia-
tions;
(iii)  planned training activity for follow-
ing period; and
(iv)  progress to date of report regarding
traffic counting arrangements/O-D
surveys on the road network.
Road Transport                          (i)  number of axle weighing showing the
proportions of excessive axle loads
during reporting period and summary
of actions taken; and
(ii)  report on other major developments
during reporting period (e.g., varia-
tion in prescribed freight rates,
establishment of freight terminals,
increase in duties on motor fuel,
any significant change in transport
policies).
Subproject Progress Reports
3.        These reports would be submitted quarterly, not  later than one
calendar month after the end of the quarter. The first report should cover
the quarter ending December 31, 1979. These reports should contain the fol-
lowing information on each subproject being financed by IBRD:



- 82 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Subproject                       Information Required
Road Construction/Improvement           (i)  the physical progress accomplished
to date of report and during the
reporting period;
(ii)  actual or expected deviations from
the subproject implementation
schedule 1/;
(iii) actual or expected difficulties or
delays and their effect on imple-
mentation and the actual steps taken
or planned to overcome the diffi-
culties and avoid delays;
(iv)  expected changes in the completion
dates of the subprojects;
(v) key personnel changes in the staffs
of the Road Organization including
monitoring and evaluation unit, con-
sultants and contractors;
(vi)  matters which may affect the cost of
the subprojects;
(vii) original estimated cost;
(viii) revised costs, if appropriate;
(ix)  actual expenditure;
(x) projected expenditure in the follow-
ing quarters; and
(xi)  actual withdrawals and projected
withdrawals for the following quarter
from the Loan Account for this sub-
project;
1/   Implementation schedules for each subproject have been tentatively pro-
grammed (Annex 7) but a more firm schedule would be submitted with the
application for IBRD to accept that subproject for financing.



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Buildings and Equipment                (i)  progress with construction, fitting
of workshops, and equipment procure-
ment during quarter;
(:Li) reasons for any deviations from
implementation schedule, and proposed
corrective action; and
(iii) projected progress during following
quarter.
Technical Assistance and               (i)  progress during quarter in procuring
Consulting Services                        these services; and
(ii) brief report describing and evaluat-
ing work performed by technical
assistance experts and consultants
during quarter.



- 84 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Background
1.        Each concerned Roads Organization of the partici.pating Republics/
Provinces proposes to establish a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) within
the organization to bring forward sound subprojects in a timely manner, to
monitor implementation of these road works, and to evaluate their impact. The
primary function of the proposed Unit will be to ensure that the limited
funds available are utilized efficiently and on time.
Objectives
2.        The objectives of the MEU are to:
(a) formulate sound subprojects within the framework of the
highway master plan; ensure completion of substantial
detailed engineering and economic viability analyses of
different subprojects requiring Bank assistance; and
bring them forward in a timely manner for implementation;
(b) monitor how efficiently roads are being constructed/
improved and whether complementary activities necessary
to the successful impact of the subproject(s) are being
implemented;
(c) propose corrective actions whenever necessary; and
(d) evaluate how effective the subproject(s) are in
lowering transport costs and in stimulating economic
and social development.
Outline of Work Program Monitoring
3.        The scope of monitoring activities will include:
(a) monitoring a timetable (a CPM chart wherever possible)
for bringing forward sound subprojects for implementa-
tion and disbursements;
(b) monitoring the output and costs of construction and
maintenance units;



- 85 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c) monitoring implementation of complementary activities
wherever relevant; and
(d) monitoring operational difficulties, if any.
4.         As part of their monitoring programs, the MEUs should suggest mea-
sures needed from time to time to attain the physical and financial targets
including requirements of personnel, equipment, and training. In this context
MEUs should critically review the adequacy of the procurement procedures,
construction/supervision and related institutional facilities required to
support the execution and operation of the program.
Evaluation
5.        The scope of the evaluation covers:
(a) measurement of agriculturaLl and industrial production
and marketing, traffic flcws and population movements
showing effect of roads constructed and improved;
(b)  updating inventory of highway networks that will indi-
cate by major road sections construction standards,
present state of maintenanice and general adequacy for
present traffic;
(c)   assessment of the existing traffic counting system and
identification of additional traffic counts and origin/
destination studies needed to determine the nature of the
traffic over the primary and the secondary (Class 1-2-3)
roads, which can serve to measure daily and seasonal
patterns and the yearly growth of traffic;
(d) comparison of actual and predicted results especially
vehicle operational cost estimates derived from the use
of present evaluation metlhods, making necessary changes
and refinements to improve their accuracy and reliability
as a planning tool; and
(e) assessment of the cost effectiveness of the subprojects,
standards of construction works and adequacy of organi-
zational arrangements.



- 86 -
ANNEX  7
KOSOVO                                               Page 1
Tenrth Highway Project
Project Implementat ion Schedule
Years       1979               1980              1981               192               1983
Ouaners 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st 2ndF 3rd 4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st 2nd 3rd  4th  1st 2nd  3rd  4th
Inter-regional Roads
Finalize Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Pristina-Laplje Selo
Laplje Selo-Stimlje
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Laplje Selo-Urosevac
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Leposavic-K.Mitrovica
Urosevac-Doganovic
K.Polje-V.Slatina
Podujevo-Merdare
Kos.Mitrovica-Pristina



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
KOSOVOEl                                              Page 2
Tenth Highwcay Pr'oject
Project Implementat ion Schedule
Years        1979                 1980                1981                1982                 1983
Quarters 1st  2nd  3rd 4th  lst  2nd  3rd  4th  Ist  2nd  3rd  4th  lst  2na  3rd  4th  lst  2nd  3rd  4;h
Regional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Orahovac-Zrze                          _           _    _    _
K.Mitrovica-Stari Trg                  _    _    -    -          _    _ _
Vitina-Grlica                          -         -    -                    -
Gnjilane-Presevo                            - _-                           -
Crnoljevo-Komorane                         -     - _ _                                    -
F'inalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Zur-Dragas
Srbica-Klina                                              __                  -
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Bistrazin-Zrze
D.Kormiljane-Konculj
K.Mitrovica-G.Klina
V.Krusa-Pirane
Pec-Decane
Lablj ane-Gracanica
Gnj ilane-Klokot
Lebane-M4ilos evo



- 88 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
MONTENEGRO
Tenth Highway Project
Project IrmpIerentat ion Schedule
Years        1979                1980                 1981                1982                 1983
Quarters 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th
Inter-retional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Andrej evica-Murino
Niksic-Vilusi
Kosanica--Djurdevica
Tara
Regional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors E
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Pave Unspecified
Sections
Titograd-Cetinje
Andrej evica-Ivangrad



- 89 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
VOJ'VODINA
Tenth Higihway Project
Projec3t Implemrentation Schedule
Years        1979               1980                1981                1982                1983
Quarters 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd1 3rd  4th  lst 2nd  3rd  4th  Ist  2nd  3rd  4th
Inter-regional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Popinci-Border SAPV                  -
Novi Sad-Zabalj -_
Srbobran-Novi Sad                                                          ___             -
Zabalj-Tisa                          -
Regional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Kula Savino Solo                      -                      _              __



- 90 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
MACEDONIA
Tenth Highway Project
Project Implementation Schedule
Years       1979               1980               1981               1982                1983
Quaners 1st  2nd  3rd 4th  1st 2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd 3rd  4th  1st 2nd  3rd  4th  lst 2nd  3rd  4th
Inter-regional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Prilep-Bitola
Ohrid-Bitola
Miladinovci-Stip
Kumanovo-Rankovci
Regional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Debar-Albanian Border
Ohrid-Pestani
Trabotiviste-Pehcevo
Maked Brod-Belica
Krivogastani-Krusevo
Rasimbegov Most-
Vitolis te
Tetovo-Gos tivar
Berovo-Strumica



- 91 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
BOSNIA-1_ERZEr;OVI NA
Tenth Highway Project
Project Implenentation Schedule
Years       1979               1980              1981               1982               1983
Quarters ls   n   3rd  4  [1,,  )ml, 3rd  4'h Iht 2nd  3rdI 4hI ~Ir 2nd I1    4'h  1-t 2nrj1~d4
Inter-regional Roads
Finalize Documents
Prequalify Contractors              _
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Maglaj-Ljesnica                                   _,
Jezero-Jajce                                     zm =uzc       1-  --
Kifinoselo-Madanici                         _=____-
Milinis te-Glamoc                      =:=-            ~-.:~~  -  
Duvno-Posusje                          --
Breko-Vrsani
Draksemic-Gradiska.
Tuzla-Medas
Sanskimost-Kljuc
Lastva-Klobuk
Bos. Novi-Bis Dubica                   _______
Rogoiji-Ministe                             -  _                                     t =Z= Z
Pale-Rakite-Praca
Liubinje-Zakovo
Maslovare-Teslic                      .4
Blatuj-Konjic
Finalize Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Jai ce-Podmilacie e                                                 -It
Kobas-Derventa
Gradacac-Pelagicevo          |t=_
Bos. Brod-Odzak                                                     ________---t--t_
Pilica-Sepak
Josanica-BlazuJ                                                    __||____________-_
Klasaice-Okueani
Regional Roads
Finalize Bid Documents
Prequalify Contractors
Bid, Evaluate, Award
Stolac-Plana                           _-_-___;_                                     t ;-
Otoka-Kladusa                                             _ T-:                          -
Sekovici-Caparde                       _-                                              =
Drvar-Martin Brod |



- 92 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.   Yugoslavia Development with Decentralization - World Bank Country
Economic Report, 1975, Ch. 7, "Infrastructure - Transport", pp 166-
178.
2.   Yugoslavia Transport Sector Memorandum (White Cover) - April 1978.
3.   Guidelines for Highway Feasibility Studies, 1975, Vols 1 and 2,
Dorsch Consult in association with Louis Berger, International, Inc.
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Development of Road Network in SAP Kosovo 1977-1990, Vols 1-4,
Institute Za Puteve - Beograd, September 1978.
2.   Master Plan Road Network Construction Program Mid '79 to Mid '82 -
Titograd, 1978.
3.   Road Network Master Plan SAP Vojvodina 1979-85, Vols 1-3, Institute
Za Puteve, Beograd, September 1978.
4.   Feasibility Study of the Highway E-75(E-5) State Border-Subotica-
Novi Sad-Beograd (with separate Annex)-1975, September 1976,
February 1978 - "Urbis" Novi Sad and "Gradjevinarstvo", Novi Sad.
5.   Feasibility Study of TYH (Kuzmin-Dobanovci) SAP Vojvodina-Urbis,
1977.
6.   Development of Basic Road Network in SR Macedonia for Period 1978-82,
Skopje, June 1978.
7.   Feasibility Study of the Highway Miladinovci-Stip, Highway Institute,
Belgrade, March 1976.
8.   Feasibility Study on Expressways in Sarajevo Region, Sarajevo, 1978.
9.   Feasibility Study - Josanica-Blazuj, Institute Za Puteve, Beograd,
September 1976.
10.   Feasibility Study - Sarajevo-Konjic, CONSULTPROGETTI, Milano; Dorsch
Consult, Munchen; Louis Berger, Inc., USA., October 1975.



- 93 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 2
11.   Excerpts from the Plan of Development of the Road Network of Bosnia-
Herzegovina up to the year 1982, September 1978, Zavod Za SaobLacQJ
Gradevinskog Fakuleta, Sarajevo.
12.   Sozina Tunnel - Feasibility Study (Phase I), Zagreb, September 1978.



- 94 -                       ANNEX 9
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured
Estimated Cost
Item                                 (US$ Equivalent)
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina
1.   Automatic traffic counter with auxiliary equipment
2.   Microfilm equipment
3.   Ice sensor
4.   Traffic data analyzer                                            400,000
SR Montenegro
1.   Asphalt thickness meter
2.   Traffic counters
3.   Ice sensor
4.   Traffic data analyzer                                            200,000
SAP Vojvodina
1.   Automatic traffic counter with auxiliary equipment
2.   Supply of equipment of traffic counter
3.   Ice sensor
4.   Traffic data analyzer
5.   Roughness meter (indicator)                                      400,000
SAP Kosovo
1.   Automatic traffic counter with auxiliary equipment
2.   Dynamic weighing device (portable)
3.   Ice sensor
4.   Sand/salt spreader
5.   Traffic data analyzer
6.   Roughness meter (indicator)
7.   Cine camera plus projector                                      900,000
SR Macedonia
1.   Automatic traffic counter with auxiliary equipment
2.   Asphalt thickness meter
3.   Ice sensor
4.   Loader for spreader
5.   Unimog-truck with additional unit
6.   Other                                                            300,000
TOTAL                                                         2,200,000



95 -                       ANNEX 10
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Proposed Training Program
Estimated Cost
1979/80     1980/81      1981/82       (US$ Equivalent)
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina
1 Traffic Engineer       2 months
1 Civil Engineer                      2 months
1 Economist                                        2 months
Seminar-3 Civil Eng.    1/2 month   1/2 month   1/2 month             100,000
SR Montenegro
1 Civil Engineer                      2 months
1 Economist                           2 months
Seminar-4 Civil Eng.    1/2 month
Seminar-4 Civil Eng.                  1/2 month                       100,000
SAP Vojvodina
2 Civil Engineers        2 months    2 months
1 Traffic Engineer       2 months
Seminar-3 Civil Eng.    1/2 month                  1/2 month          100,000
SAP Kosovo
2 Civil Engineers                     2 months
2 Civil Engineers                                  2 months
1 Economist                           2 months
Seminar-2 Civil Eng.                  1/2 month
Seminar-2 Civil Eng.                               1/2 month          100,000
SR Macedonia
2 Civil Engineers        2 months
1 Traffic Engineer                    2 months
1 Economist              2 months
Seminar-2 Civil Erig.                 1/2 month
Seminar-2 Civil Eng.                               1/2 month          100,000
Total                                                                 500,000






IBRL 1350C
r.   5!      ,            S         wo    :  A             e       :;             .      S   :           w                      tt                     ffi                   <                   DE-F^tSFt~~~m  2021  i  0% 000 12.-2
AU
( a                           tx5 > t  , U i;  S V U ; ta  O: i E C: : 0 A S O : k 0 S a g ca   U S S
.< K .i bo0 0 u  L C  L u 2 *', H 4!zwOrtre   i
>    ' astOno~0T0~         Noo          oeoMo                               o           %;                                  Lvt        9    / t;e8                               20      ~      200V0'0ANO2O0$5;|
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on~, A                                                                                             C- PA<     A N   Aw rHC
TRIESTE                                                                             V-1sil,                                                                    rk/ ,,dy              PIS;A          VS             
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V eJHW                                                                             s     Cooodoooio   E,      ' A                       Nogo0
.  ''                                             K.ooo,ooAA   N    I   A
S E A A D4 Tqn"At V                 8.0 Peit tSL    8  A   N  I   A)                                                                                                              ,                    J
-  4    RepobUcC 0*0002                            0,   22    20   00   00   TOO                                              .                                                  ,  rse 
~~ NoO,ooo2I oooo0oN
tii lhtr/ndTlts A    L 0'  ' ?\                                                                                                                            tp
9 '~~~~~~~~oo~.doe                                       _0._cPPi 2,2 bC22af  TALTT~'oor,22.am  XW   ...2  r ,0olo/r1 
.~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~~~2 .__  in2  rcu  ci4d1 ;| ;-,                                                       0'/V G/n  -oYrF                                               Y_o aas  'G  R20.E    E    C O tE        |






IBRD 13878
ARS4R1A    Z-                                                                                                                              DECEMBER 1978
,           ,&  HUNGARY   '                                                                                           YUGOSLAVIA
SALY VIFNIA
s ,\0SLOV(N/AP  \'s._rj>>'>-t8,  ROMANIA                                                                   HIGHWAY  SECTOR  PROJECT
TIA 
crrrx _ i- > 3, Kos ovo
tHFRCtOOV/INA t. .e...od'                                                                          1977 traffic flow
U GO  S\AV  I A  ,                                                                                          ow    j Vehicles per 24 hours
A VI A1982                                                                                           fo
)      O/NTE*. ?       -                     .                                                Interregional roads
'*Y                                            2684O..,)-  ~'                         - Regional roads
~~FAY  .~~>-  ~ ~        I" MA CEZOONIA,
ALIANIA          '.
,..   .\              ---Autonomous province boundaries
8z 'A          .        8      TOREECf                   .,                             \i.,        -.. -Republic boundaries
-   - a  _* International boundaries
70 & /O 9 ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ Mt                                 ...t
MvlONTEN5GARO                                                                                                   -             Ko S nen,gico   S,RBn/A
ALBANIA                                               TP :,    s   t   RAF F  C  E   P 2  _OI
.r~e             rr'rnA n               *                                               IDClgls 
To                    PE                                                                    RFI  LWSAE:EILSPR2   OR
156222 UJ                                                                            3,000
McmiflfC   er       .        r        .                                                                l)                 9.00
r2ab,W7,S*rr.>waBmar*uarsesofelsr1 al v~~~~~~IN\f$l A.iU ,r7  .... ;,j  ,D
arflf-W-wtf#as   n+.Sdr\    J                                              lkI1t  t;lll Ii ttIal,'7'     z o
_-tt--- Sr-S~- -   j    r  $iLl!t  1; LW  i .1 |t7|1!0il$t11LI0ij[tjtLtjif                  Ko-vv






IBRD 13882
DECEMBER 1978
AUSTRIA    A                      /                                                                                     YUGOSLAVIA
7Av - ;'s HUNRARYOM                                                                                HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
-x w      ROMANIA i>@,Kosovo
805,VIAOSN/A 1-   mcelgrsde'9')                                                                         SURFACE  TYPES
l Gov/vAL-.  B r                                                                              Reg-ono  Inte.reg.on-1
*l/IEAUCGFO  SVI  A,,- I A                                                                                             Paved roads
-  ~~~'    .I~~~~   *~~'o                 ,-*17                                                            Graivel or earth roadis
V  '                     -            '      (< >                                       . .. /  -   --Autonomous provrnce boundary
iTALY                      AL      MACEDONI/A.                                                                       -..-Republic boundaries
AL ANIA                                                                                       International boundairy
YGREECE                    3                                       ) r                  - Proposed sjb-projects
SERB/A                                                              ' 
Tottr/grod<>_                    0          OSto,i Tog.
j   \ >         L;                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Pod ujevo
Koso,ska Mitloouco\
AdONTENEGRO                                                                                                     Io                 SERBIA
-.h  >~~.      Sano  {Lbl Kos ,,knc  f SS.posnico '>
o ~         10         \edn 29  30       49                                                                                         onu
KILErER LSK
Thto..,h*5000W00009 Oh. ,flflu$Oh0 ,t.ff.4oAnasevo  I,t0.0O0  (v  f icA
of 0,o ,.odeO 0f On,poOrto 00kb h/0 ttt<oh.h TO. SpOo,.OOtOo 000 rn 00 0.  7 k /
0000~~~.0._ .Pbone 00 Grio,Owgt., _f  100 _80 -000000
Ali       ANIA ofwbOoofcaik 08
! Pf<<  _ 9 9 MA CEDON/A
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                           ..R_1.T INA
KtLOMEtER<i~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~o                                 L. i -"
C."h$b          rrrzDkl                                                                Lip<jxSlFwfcom<  a n
ce at h ro l ni X                 f ~~~~e                                                                             (wle






I BRD 13851
DECEMBER 1978
YUGOSL AVIA
I<O     <                                HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Metalka                     5 y  S  )KI/A                          Montenegro
BOSNIA
f/ER CEGO  V//VA                                     249c                                                        1977 traffic flow  071  ehcle 1s per 24 hours
7.
Sula                             111-                             Interreg onal roads
'0                          537             Ruderc       s4                          LRegional roads
(  Scepon Paije    *-PLJEVLJA                    Trlica\ocaros
Autonomous province boundary
,,,. 4ratinierI/     >     /                        j                 \               -   -Republic boundaries
(                                                                                               l 1r   r.  j   \   -.-International boundory
\  ,  rC- osanica             '\
Trso                                                 Kouren'-.
g   Pluzine>;  r       Zabliak                  jurdevicciararo
79   Pasi           naVoda   N                                                  N i             SE 9. RB/A
.   31371
K$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                       3338~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  -
Krstac    0      Bajovo Poije         \,t                                                 -IJELO POLJE
7                  34   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~li1~~~~~~~epac Mast
<     \            \/8~~~~~~~~avn,k                        .UQoa                      l      <L 
!             Rastol n  /                                    <  .Yolasin~~~~~~~~~~~~68    IVANGRAV e.
NIK IC              Manastir Moram M                        e sevo
\   Vilusi  Podbozur
TvrbiCNudo
1436of/    r Rioa oM 632                                    ;         e                                                F  Q1
40 ;a,   L    1029                                                                                         KOSOVO
;       <     HUNGARY   ( l         0           <i                           j     0              
HE#CfGOV//VAf~ ~ ~ ~ ev                                                                              usnl 3egofl   r"e\ .?
N  VI           Ti                                                             AD                        A   LL  A    N I A   =   ,   ld    KLJ4TR
I TA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RFI FL0^45CALE.VE1-f CLE'"'R'4' :: 
Rod-o-ic                             I       Ur in jo s k aa                                        _ 






IBRD 13879R
FEBRUARY 1970
YUGOSLAVIA
I {                                        HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Meroijka,$' '                5 f SERB/A                               Montenegro
BOSNIA-                                     - Ma                                                                   SURFACE TYPES
H    RCE5GO  V/NA                                                  \ocr  Regiorul Inrerregiunal
r_,,                                           _ _    -         -      Paved roads
7  N ~~~~~~~~O/                              ----          ~~~~~~~~~Gravel roods
Sulb                'K      "
-  'ORudnic&N                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed sub-projects
( ~cep~nPoIje    '~.PLJEVLJA              rric                            .-Autonomous province boundary
2{tcepa'nPjolie   >                                         . -.- -Republic boundaries
-'     /        :         ,./                              \~      ._._Internotaonal boundary
,4ir. injei                 /z                                 \         \
\                                                       K\ osonico
Kourern ,
( /             Z'    '          tabIlak                  jurd evicd TaraN                      --
Pluiine
'!Pasina Voda c\ i                                  |I/\
B. a lava  oie                              'OBaIJELO POLJE
Slijepac Most                           _
Savnik                                 Moikovac
Gorj'                                                      Kosi               IVANGRAD)                               je       ,
Gralsova     ~                                Manastir Moraa                                  - MnGrtievoa    /Ku
\ V il u si    ~~Podbozur           KSI                                                        --  --   -     nd ievc
rOr,^b;"ie ! N d         /'    os>Bo9B eti'ci                        }                                         \\     !
j   -___- 9Grahovo                 t                                                                ,^       Murio                     K    SOVO
\y,              t           \                              )                                                      vanilovgrac
< ~~~~Risan                               Cevo                    \,ilowgo  J9ge 
K     Kamenari  1e
H                                                  EEC  Kov                                    /                 A L B A N IA
Rodorrovici\   r    J           ~Ri1aI kaCnevica
A  o  r  r   7   r  i         Petrovr
H YERCEGOVNA(        9r1                                  Krute     I    - S
8~~~~~~ 0 .sGS 17VIA V              ; I) A                                   Vlod 
S   U                 VO(                         =                                                          e
CFOIA6                                                                       0






18BRD 13852
ToSwte   vH                                                                                                 Q5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCEMBOR 1075
YUGOSLAVIA
R  ~~~~~~~~~~~RMNAHIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
| ~~~H U N G A R Y                                                       S,2 b.t,to                                                                                                                                            VojvodinaC
1977 trofl ic floss
1982 traffic flow   FM     Vehiles per 24 hour
______  \Regional roods
tuocol roads
G-1,J'/ icil,;e9  / ;  k> >  A3j;o <                                                                                           . -    -Auto8ocooo  provioce bo-rdary
(.o.<    BIIRrCQ                                                                                                                                               -    -  Republic boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~epb icb.  ~o i 
X.}                                                  I |  /  R5    C   /   TS   51  \   >  _-_t nte-rotiooal bovndories
To-md.h~ O ' f r  /;amairMllet,   <              /          ,r                  <                                                                                            RAFFII FLOW SCALE  VEH CLE5 PER 24 HOJRS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aio                                                                                                                      119      25t7
5F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                                                               G     A    el ;a -Crkuo'
At                                                                                                                                                   NN .-\
~~~~~0   'e                                                              -,~~~Z                                                                                                                   2           1
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i, Y..M Urr G~o 0..0, u .oL. A.o..0l V,.t Ia..i(       B/         
Ar~ ~ ~ ~ ~~           5 ''.00.. 'o'.                         ~ow  on* owl, 00 a.. ow  Wot 2E   . 0\>@0t:RB
301 ~~,, gL45 MscsooA xf *fflk000 O0/,.hn8O..e Wor00risaflclr000i004t F5OOv Oo"
)             > : x      S: Et : Y evttHen  wowu.00,t.M -50nO ' b '    f - r         t' - Z':                                          k .                                                               '






IBRD 13880
~~~.  *~~~~~~~ ~YUGOSLAV IA
I  '-Vi:tE \      i':/<-'.- RO'NltA   -:fV A                     HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
H U NGA RY                                                                                                                                     VoJvodina
SURFACE TYPES
KNon Knene-ac                                                LcOl .ei.nal ntur,al
3t  tA   8ainnok/                                         tH    A 1      0 54 t\\\\: 2 t:;    0                  -Avrcnon>ou  rovnceboundorr 4~~~~~~~~~- ASonrnor enuironboudar
._.J~~~~~~~~~uo                                                                                                                                      Aoo-oOn p--. 6.u>wy
G-li ^,                                                                                  R-   - _epubfiC lbondary
- - - nrL l  /\  Nv   eb.oundaries
Baulubneg ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               -Prposed solu-pe.Non
K   Beudan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BS...
1,aS' Id.,/>'\;    0    o 3
N- B-i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
S ,p* ki   M il .iic                                   /    P as o s o
t  O0$9-r'l'9-g  Ou /                       bb-                   t
B.gOdl M.Nd
SL%            I                                                                            BELGRADE /'   \      /V-
hff?O/A ,Blrod y   Aerul: 1'        O,( EGAE8\\<g.n..k..r.r...Oe. Wd.Or.fnt,.4,...,nnr                                              ..   -...-
!   Y  U  G  O   S  'L  ~~~ACFV   I    A \   ,fMd~5..  u..ryro..d.d  llnnn\\     , dedS
B- ,k.  P   ,O- 595   .*                              1 r                                          '"
CRO~~~Y^                                    ttihAwe /fwtwo NTIAs~ B.-t.,  B






1BRD 13853
0~~~ R                        SI                                       YUGOSLAVIA
Q                  ~~~~~~HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Kr,o PIoc Dc                            17  rfl  flw0   Vehdlep,pe  24hos
m92"f,(
Nj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n~~~~~~~~0LG  W
K.e                                    s ooo~~~~~~~~~~~~Rgiol od
TIVAR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~BLAI
E-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOF0r
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c ,t cc '~   0 c o0
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .~octc
Resso ~  K   022 RL                                                                               ~  'k..08
Srorov,ro       L.k-$i   0l$G A                                  <cc    O CoNA
AMAIA  \Cot
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lO   7                                                                                   w
.1                K,S.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::;~






IIRD 13818R
(              ~~SERBIA ,                                       
GWYSECTOR
KO SO VO                                                                        jIMo  c,0
G  OO~~O,~          KUMAN'D8
-o0oo  b4-ndo8ie
TIVAR~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
CoreoDoor  Moka~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  -  S~~~~~~~arooino   ~            ~            ~            ~            ~            ~~                       ~~                      ~ ~~ke--~n
*000.  I                                                     ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VV
~~~M. R.k.                                                                                                                                               e            7r         7, .~  -o






IBRD 13854
';                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMEER 197B1
V5wsor  KoOi4rko K    o        r     t       =        j*    IR  OA T/A
B.                            :
Bosnia- Hercegovina~~~~~~~~~~11 D-1,;    //    
W.. V k                                                                                                                                                                            SW0,  B  RB    WA
Liuil            PA.orETES                                                Dor,mk            40                                'iOru        (         M        p
krfr  rl  eO1s .hh&ipotrs  Ijlric den44,on                                                                               inoo Jn                      Rot' trJ \th,0 2 0  b_        eb    n  
zoo 0  19    2 -  GuoPdokj.                                               j-c
a, snar                        .7lChre                                        Eue                          \> 'wil   Uio                                                                 S '         }  'S\'.-lo   E
p                                I~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Bosnia- Hercegovina                                                                                                      J~~~~~~~~~~.1,1- K,
Sner AinlRoAdsEV[Neo-                                                                           R-                                                                               05
TRAFFI FLOWSCALEVEHICES PE 24 HURS                                                                   d    SN/A    n      A
YUGOSLAVIA                                          Tk.,                              [40-1    'k-le                 A- M30,00                        Y-\ TOA   ISA  V I
Rrtre   InlroadsEN-                                                                                                                                                A-I                        ANA,~g
zrRoegi,oooS.,wol wAr oad   nuliouoneoeo.ei.-                                                     lo,t,r20                                                                                                f        >
*r..a. oAvicon.Q  r ..o.ov e po',rebourdyTAFC,WSAEVHC SER4OR                                                                                                                      L      ON AL ANA
Oo'.poeroe 0000,7 bno,d.,ie,                                                                                                                 N~~('00                        Q 100,0
t..    2,000    f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ T'enc






IBRD 13883
7$tron                                                                                                                                                                   DECEMBER  i97ej
/''~">.   os. osFonicoo_%          ^Dw=;C:C  R O  A i/IA
V. KlcdussiRs Vino=;ac                                          _
Mili- Gi                                                        r)              -t-~ ~~~-(                                             r p-
Dot ICp               .'kdoI,r'                                                                                                            S ..Jtod.God)coc                   D...... R. .idoco
o         BIHAC          %0do- m
\_4              ,                                                                                                            K.                       G.-irbo 6Ti7$,                                                    S    R B/A
t7 a~~~~~~~~~~~ ,.\                                                                     Otreozc               Brococo                                        Gozrodrle     O     sREi> itpari ooVjcs
W- ,VA.             J..5FR91AtHOoco                                                                                            Lio\ici                                                ro.2  ___                    GAR
-d.,V.k.f  R.'k-i.~~~~                                                                             ,~ \RO AN
+0\  > v   iGlamor   _                     )            t        lKokoqj               g      Kriz X                         ;?Han Pijesoh           \-_     <~~'~    BONIA  io~os
-~~5 . .     h Rpbi   boundories                            a                            roposed suo.porljavcls                    -        N        0 rUC05L\ A  V  . A:
0  20  00   60       80              lOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0P
OLOMETE VS                                                                                                                                                     NEOROI-  D     .k.r-
t                            _Li11c  \azk                                             SZJ    Mi                   ,    ,                       \ SR/
ofoho,eptoec.or ~   ~            ~           ~            \ 0r                w ocheccee  eh d.  boo  coot,oeptO  Po sj ..                                                                                         , 
Viti9_   X       %t    - t                              Smerno                    LK J!~~~~~~H-  ,1.
Bosnia-  Hercegovina Drceto3< o1 \ ,< .~~~~~~~~P-                                                                                              -
ocO..eohoe  corho  ~dooo''pc coe pa 0,0.Wo P Beckoo/c
SURFACE  TYPESaf                                                                                                \        /             <    (                           s>$itHiA Xr4^ksFllHiNGT-  P,
9      on oo n erO 00 000 eoe or,.    V     ri_H tv dt'Oi0O"n j                                                                                                  In                              ,ztVA                    i       r    > OMACONIA
occo ,ooooe"ot 2A,L, rs                                                                                                                                                                                                       RAM,,  A u   \
N.D mxp hew bMe F prepSMd hV rh. World bank s SM/f eXGlDaJvelr tor tb Co^VMte"eR  I   \  2  %\.,;   L h    i ~  (-0
M..T                                                      ADDoD
a ff sIes MV xidDmen M tRe  s/ !11XS ! nv tero co S/ Ln s7-n  cr  
d(C@PrOE Of SUCE bDMIWd MS                                                                                                                                                   -X                  >               }        -r  griesCE lG,



