Flu   c  11              ~~RE3TRICTED
Reoort No. TO- 0 43a
Ths report was prepared for use within the Bank and its cffiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME'NT
LNTER-NATIONAL D)EVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE MALI RAILWAY PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
RETURN TO
RECC203 CS3TE RS27 CRiZ
September 9, Il9bb
Projects Departmnent



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
MF1            =   US¢0. 4
MF 247         =   US $1
MF 1 million   =   US $4, 050
Unit of Weight
1 metric ton   =   2, 205 pounds
Fiscal Year
July 1         -   June 30



REPUBLIC OF MALI
APPRAISAL OF THE MALI RAILI1AY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUARY                                                      i - ii
I.      INTRODUCTION                                         1
II.     TRANSPORT IN MALI                                    2
A. Background                                        2
B. Communications and Traffic in
Southwest Mali                                   3
III.    THE RAILWAY SYSTEM                                   5
A. Organization, Management and Training             5
B. Personnel                                         6
C. Operations                                        7
D. Properties                                        8
E. Traffic                                           9
F. Tariffs                                          11
G. Finances                                         13
IV.     THE INVESTMENT PROGRAM                              17
A.  The Rehabilitation and Modernization Program
and t1he Project                                j 7
B. Proposed IDA Credit and Project Financing        16
C. Project Execution and Procurement                39
V.      FUTURE EARNINGS AND FINANCES                        20
A. Forecast Operating Income and Expenditure        20
B.  Forecast Cash Flow                              21
C.  Forecast Balance Sheets                         22
VI.     ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                              23
VII.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                     24
This Report is based on (i) a study by the consulting firm SOFRERAIL made in
May/June, 1964, (ii) the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs:
Loven, Sander and W1addams (Consultant) in October/November, 1964, (iii) the
results of a pre-negotiation mission comprising MIessrs: Lutolf and Cojot (Area),
Jones (Legal), De Gryse (Projects), Broca and Waddams (Consultants) in June,
1965, and (iv) recent information provided by the Government and the Railways.



Table of Contents (continued)
TABLES
1.     Motive Power and Rolling Stock at June 30, 1965.
2.     Freight Traffic, 1956-65 and 1970-71.
3.     Forecast Traffic, 1966-71.
4.    Passenger Traffic, 1956-1965.
5.     Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1958-1965.
6.     Balance Sheet, June 30, 1965.
7.     The Project and its proposed financing.
8.     Forecast Operating Income and Expenditure Account, 1965-1971.
9.     Forecast Cash Flow, 1965-1971.
10.     Forecast Balance Sheets, 1966-1971.
ANNEXES
Annex A - Notes on Forecast Operating Income and Expendibure (Table 8)
Annex B - The Bamako-Koulikoro Section
MAP
tali Rail-.-ay



REPUBLIC OF iAT I
APPRAISAL OF THE iiALI RAILWAY PROJECT
SlM4WRiARY
i.        The lIali Government has asked the Association for a credit of
US$ 9.1 million to help finance the rehabilitation and modernization program
of the Dlali Railway. The proposed credit would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the Project) amounting to about 82% of total expenditure.
ii.       The Project has been drawn up by the Railway and modified as a
result of discussions between the Railway and the Association. It is
designed to equip the Railway with modern traction, rolling stock, repair and
maintenance facilities and track to enable it to operate efficiently at the
levels of traffic expected. The rehabilitation is necessitated by the run-
down condition of the Railway resulting from three years of curtailed oper-
ations followiing the closure of the Senegal border, during which time
renewals and maintenance activities were at,a low level.
iii.      Total capital expenditure included in the Project is estimated at
MTF,J7-39-mtllion (about US$ 11.1 million equivalent).  Major items are
diesel locomotives (MF 342 million), passenger vehicles (07F 379 million),
freight cars (MIF 312 million), workshop equipment (NiF 426 million) and trackc
and telephone line renewal (IT 766 million). The investment is technically
sound and should result in a substantial improvement of the Railumy's
operational efficiency.
iv.       The present financial condition of the Railway is unsatisfactory
and the rehabilitation program provides tiie basis for a bettor future. If
the program is carried out along the lines indicated in this report, on which
agreement has been reached during negotiations, the Railway should achieve
substantial operating surpluses and earn an increasing return on its net
fixed assets.
v.        The Project is justified on economic grounds.   Th,e Railway is the
most economic route to the Atlantic coast, a distance of over 1,2G00 kn, for
the greater Dart of TIali's imports and exports.  The Railway also provides
the only trunk line of communicatiGn between the Figer basin, Bamako and
Senegal, and its rehabilitation will enable Mlaliss international trade to
expand at the lowest transport cost. The investment would yield a satis
factory economic return on the basis of cost savings.
vi.       The rehabilitation nrogram uill enable the Pailway to carry more
traffic both now and in the future and thus increase its revenues. The
program also includes mieasures uhich are intended to reduce costs by im-
proved organization, reduction of personnel, increased efficiency of
traction and lower maintenance and repair costs.
vii.      In the interests of economy of maintenance of the fleet, standard-
ization of motive power and rollins stock is desirable;   most units in use
at present are of French manufacture. Some expenditure on the Proiect has



already been committed. Apart from these items, the imported goods to be
financed under the proposed credit would be acquired through international
competitive bidding.
viii.     IDA has under consideration a credit to Senegal to help finance
the Senegal Railways' Second Four-Year Investment Plan, the negotiation of
which has taken place concurrently with that of the Mali Railway Project.
In recognition ot the fact that the two projects are closely interdeDendent.
appropriate cross-reference and reciprocal provisions are included in the
credit documents for both projects.
ix.       The Project is sound and provides a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$ 9.1 million equivalent to the Government of Mali; the proceeds
of the credit would be relent to the Rail-vway a. the Bank's interest rate, for
a term of 30 years including three years of grace.   A Project Agreement
would be concluded between the Association and the Mali 2.ailway.



REtUBLIC OF MALI
APPPAISAL OF THE MALI PAILWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTTION
1.        The Government of Mali and the Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali
(Mali Railway) have asked the Association for a credit of US$ 9.1 million
equivalent to help finance a program for the rehabilitation and modernization
of the Railway. The Project would be the program and the proposed credit
would finance the foreign exchange cost, representing about 82% of the total.
2.        This Report is based on (i) a study by the consulting firm
SOFRERAIL made in May/June 1964, (ii) the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. Loven and Sander (of the Association) and 1!addams
(consultant) in October/November 1964, (iii) the results of a pre-negotiation
mission comprising Messrs. Lutolf, Cojot, Jones, De Gryse (of the Associ-
ation), Broca and Waddams (consultants) in June 1965, and (iv) recent infor-
mation provided by the Governiment and the Railway.  Hr. Mac"ray, of the
Association, also contributed to the preparation of the Report.
3.        In June 1954 the Bank made a loan (No. 100-FR) of US$ 7.5 million
to the Office Central des Chemins de Fer de la France d'Outre-Mler to com-
plete the conversion from steam to diesel tractior oG the Dalar-N'ger
Railways and the Abidjan-Niger Railways.   The entire loan amount was for the
acquisition of diesel locomotives. The Railways' proeram also included im-
provements of track and communications on both railway systems and has been
successfully carried out.
4.        The Mali Railway, running from the Mali/Senegal border to
Koulikoro on the Niger, formed a part of the above-mentioned Dakar-Niger
Railways which were operated under a single management at Thies, Senegal.
When the Ft.ieration with Senegal was dissolved in August 1960 the Mali
Railway was created, as a State-owned enterprise, by the Government of the
Repub'ic of Mali taking over that part of the net assets of the Dakar-Niger
Railways located in Mali territory, comprising 38 per cent of the total net
assets of the former system.
5.        From September 1960 until July 1963 al'l railway traffic was dis-
continued between lMali and Senegal. After resumption of traffic the Dakar-
Niger system remained divided into the Senegal Railways and the iY!ali Railway
each under its own management. InternatIonal traffic is regulated by an
Agreement between the Mali and Senegal Governments and by a Convention
between the Mali and Senegal Railways, both sioned in June 1963. The Con-
vention provides for the handling of traffic and operations across the
border, exchange of rolling stock, and common tariffs. In addition, the
Convention includes arrangements for Nali locomotives and rolling stock to
be repaired in the Senegal workshops at Thies, and for the Mali Railway to
hire Senegal locomotives when needed for use in Mali.   International traffic
is also facilitated by a Customs Agreement between the two countries pro-
viding for tax-free passage of MTali goods in Senegal.



-2-
6.        The Convention, which may be revised annually at the reauest of
either party, generally provides an adequate and practical basis for the
regulation of international traffic. For the efficient operation of what
is essentially a single railway system, it would be best to have one cor-
poration and one management, but this is not possible politically. Tbe
Association has under consideration the granting of a credit to Seniegal to
finance part of its Railways' Second Four-Year Investment Plan. The con-
tinued cooperation of the two Governments and the two railways within the
framework of the International Traffic Agreement, the Customs Agreement, and
the Railway Convention was agreed during the negotiations of both the Mali
and Senegal credits. Appropriate provisions are included in the credit
documents to ensure prompt notice to the Association of any difficulties
arising under the Convention and to ensure that no material changes are
made therein without prior approval of the Association. Any substantial
interruption in the normal flow of international traffic for other than
technical reasons has been made an event of default under both credit
agreements, unless such interruption is manifestly beyond the borrower's
control. In recognition of the close interdependence of the two railways
and the two projects appropriate cross-references and reciprocal provisions
are included in the credit documents for both projects. In this connectior.
suspension or termination of withdrawal for M,9ali entails automatically the
same sanction for Senegal if, as a result of the suspension or termination
for Mali, it became improbable that the Purpose of the Senegal project would
be achieved.
7.        The brealk up of the Federation left the rMali Railway without a
proper management or workshops for maintenance of its facilities.  Freight
traffic moving on the Kali Railway during the period of curtailed operations
was very light, since the main items that it normally transported were
either imports or exports through Senegal. The liali Railway was able to
organize a local management, and to maintain a semblance of rail service
for the remaining local traffic. Mlaintenance of its diesel locomotives and
rolling stock was inadequate because of lack of spare parts and workshop
facilities. When rail traffic with Senegal was resumed, the Mali Railway's
locomotive and wagon fleet was in bad condition and grossly insufficient to
handle its part of the international traffic; in Senegal there were no
such problems. The Mali Government took initial steps to alleviate the
shortage by ordering some railway equipment on supplier's credits, and by
hiring equipment from Senegal, and then turned to the Association for
further assistance for the rehabilitation and modernization of its railway.
II.  TRANSPORT IN M4ALI
A. Background
8.        The Republic of Ifali is landlocked and covers an area of 1.2
million square kilometers, twice the area of France, and largely desert.
The southwestern third of the area, in which the railway and the ca-ital
lie. borders on the Republics of ilauritania, Senegal Guinea, Ivory Coast
and Upper Volta (see Map).



-3-
9.        Population is estimated at 4.5 million, with an annual growth
rate of 2.5%.  Most of the population is concentrated in the southwest
and center of the country, particularly along the Niger River. Bamako, on
the Niger, is the capital, with a population of 130,000 other towns are
not larger than 20,000 inlhabitants, and the greater part of the population
is widely scattered in rural areas.
10.       Mali is one of the poorest and least developed countries in
Africa, per capita domestic product being US$ 70 eauivalent a year. There
are virtually no kno-wn mineral resources, and industrial activity is negli-
gible. MIore than 90 per cent of the population is engaged in. agriculture,
animal husbandry and fishing, mostly on a subsistence basis.
11.       Livestock on the hoof and fish comprise half of total exports in
value. The remainder are agricultural products, and the most important is
groundnuts, of which 43,000, 48,000 and 23,000 tons were shipped in 1963,
1964 and 1965 respectively. Imports consist predominantly of manufactures,
building materials, processed foodstuffs, fertilizers and petroleum products.
B. Communications and Traffic in Southwest Mali
12.       The trunk lines of surface   communications in southwest l4ali
provide the transport routes for imports and exports of the country to
points in neighboring countries which connect with the Atlantic seaboard.
There are three such arteries (see Map):
(i)  The Railway, consisting of a single meter-oauge
track- from Bamako to the Senegal border and thence
to Datar (1,228 Emi). The Pailway also extends
57 km eastwards from Bamako to Kouliktzoro on the
Niger, where there is a river port connecting it
with transport on the riger.
(ii)  Roads southward to the Abidian-Miger railway at
Ouangolodougou or Bobo-Dioulasso, and thence by
rail to Abidjan. The distance from Bamako to
Ouangolodougou is 544 km by road and 690 km by
rail to Abidjan, making 1,234 km total.
(iii)  Southwestward by road to Kankan or Kouroussa on the
Guinea railway and thence by rail to Conakry.
This is the shortest route to the coast, comprising
ir. all some 900 km, but the road is poor and the
Guinea railway unfit to carry heavy traffic in
large quantities.
There is no trunk road route from Bamako to the Senegal border suitable
for heavy long-distance traffic which could provide an alternative to the
railway for transport in this area.



-4-
13.       The railway to Dakar was the principal route to the sea until
its closure at the border in September 1960. During the three years until
it was re-opened in July 1963, the southern route to AbIdjan was used for
most imports and exports, and the State had to make large and costly in-
vestments in roads and road vehicles.
14.       The road routes to Ouangolodougou or Bobo-Dioulasso can now take
trucks up to 10-ton maximum payload capacity. The State fleet of trucks
which, together with small private haulers, carries this traffic, runs at
large financial losses because rates are fixed below costs and management
and maintenance are poor.
15.       The southern route to the coast at Abidjan is suitable for traffic
originating from (or destined for) areas in M4ali east of Segou. For areas
west of Segou the railway to Dalar provides lower transport costs.
16.       The 'iger river provides a transport artery from the railhead at
Koulikoro to the east, but is navigable for only half the year. Studies
have been completed for works which weould Dermit the passage of flat_
bottomed boats all-the-year-round, but no financing to carry out the Droject
has yet been secured. It is estimated that river traffic should increase in
the near future from 70,000 tons, its present level, to 100,000 tons a year,
provided the railhead at Koulihoro is kept open to link the railway with
river traffic. There is no alternative site for a river port to serve
Bamako, since between Koulilroro and Bamako there are rapids and a dam is
to be constructed for hydro-electric power.
17.       The State owns the transport system of the country, with the ex-
ception of a part of, road transport vehicles owned and operated by indivi-
duals or small enterprises, but subject to tariffs fixed by Government
decree.  Transport is under the direction of the M1inistry of Public Works,
Communications and Energy, but the investment plans are the responsibility
of the Ministry of the Plan.
18.       The State enterprises which operate the various means of transport
are:
1) Regie du Chemin de Fer du 'Mali.
2) Regie des Transports du fali, which operates the
State-owned truck fleet.
3)  Compagnie Malienne de Tiavigation, which has a
monopoly of river transport.
4)  Air Eali.
At the Association's request the Government of Mali has agreed to request
the United Nations Development Programme (U?$DP) for experts whose tasks
would be:
(i) to determine the road, air and river transport
services required for the development of the
country, and to recommend measures to put the
transport operat4ons of the State-owned enter-
prises on a sound economic and financial basis;



-5-
(ii)  to assess the existing highway network. re-
commend measures to improve its administration,
and establish an adequate maintenance and coti-
struction program; and
(iii)  to determine the policies and measures that
would lead to optimum services from all modes
of transport (including rail) and to coordination
of future transport developments. Terms of
reference have been prepared by the Association
which will, after approval by the Government, be
submitted to the UNDP.
III. THE RAILWAY SYSTEM
A.  Organization, Management and Training
19.       The Mali Railway was established by ordinance, dated November 29,
1960, as an autonomous public enterprise to be operated on commercial lines.
20.       There is a Board of Directors of 17 members including:
(1)  the Minister of Public Works, Chairman;
(ii)  six Ministers, the Director of the Postal
and Telecommunications Office, and one
railway expert; and
(iii)  eight members, representing the users (3),
the National Assembly (2), and Railway
personnel (3);
21.       The Board has wide auchority in such matters as appointing the
Manager, deciding personnel policy, setting tariffs and concluding loans.
Operating and capital budgets are subiect to approval by the Government
and Parliament.
22.       A 17-member Board for a railway that comprises only 642 km of
line seems to be unduly large and unwieldy to function efficiently.
However, considerable powers have been delegated to the Chairman. which
greatly facilitates coordination between the Board and the Manager.
23.       The administrative organization, established in conformity with
the former Dakar--Niger Railways, is excessively large; with ei'Tht depart.
ments and some 220 employees. The management is aware of this and is
planning a reduction in the size of the organization and in the number of
staff. During the negotiations the Government and the Railway agreed to
engage a consultant, expert in railway management oraanization, to assist
in formulating the reorganization and to advise on its implementation. The
appointment of the consultant is a condition of effectiveness of the
credit. The foreign exchanle cost of the consultant's services is in-
cluded in the proposed credit.



-6-
24.       The senior officials are generally competent and qualified, but
there is a serious shortage at the level of supervisory staff and foremen.
Vocational training, at present limited to about 15 trainees per year,
should be extended. This would require considerable effort and the Rail-
way would need, in addition to nine already available, about eieht ex-
patriate technicians for three years to establish adequate vocational
training schools, courses and on-the-job training facilities. During
negotiations agreement was reached for the Railway to employ eight techni-
cians for these purposes. Since the French Government is already providing
technical assistance to the Mali Railway, it might be willing to make these
technicians available. In any event, the Mali Government has agreed to
explore all suitable sources of recruitment. If assistance cannot be
secured from other sources, the foreign exchange cost of the technicians
would be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed credit. The appoint-
ment of the technicians is also a condition of effectiveness of the
credit.
B. Personnel
25.       The Railway's personnel may be divided into two categories:
(i) permanent personnel, about 43 per cent of total
force, whose conditions of employment are governed
by the former General Statute of the French Over-
seas Railways: and
(ii) auxiliary personnel, about 57 per cent of the total
number, ooverned by a Collective Railway Labor
Agreement.
Permanent staff includes all officers and super-visors and most of the
skilled workers whose jobs are connected with the safety of train operation,
with workshops and with the handling of Fignificant amounts of cash.  Dis-
missal is only possible in the case of serious shortccmings or misbehavior.
Auxiliary personnel consist largely of unskilled or semi-skilled workers,
who can be dismissed at a month's notice.
26.       Salary scales and fringe benefits differ widely between the twTo
categories. In 1964/65 the average annual wages were:
Basic Salary   Fringe Benefits       Total
US$
MF               4F       M2F     Equivalent
For permanent staff    463,000         165,000    628,000      2,540
For auxiliary staff    178,000          24,000    202,000        820
Fringe benefits in particular, which include family allowances, show a
large difference. The two categories of pay scales are applicable to all
Government workers in Mali: however, in the railway promotions have been



-7-
granted to the permanent staff more frequently than in other government
services resulting in considerably larger sa'laries for railway incumbents.
Salary and wage scales provide generally for biennial increases subject
to satisfactory performance. Recently, promotion of auxiliary to permanent
status has been discontinued in order to contain payroll cost.
27.       In 1960 the labor force was swollen by the absorption of about
250 Mali personnel repatriated from Senegal, and became unduly large.
During 1964/65 the Railway also had to absorb employees previouslv working
for the Postal and Telecommunications Office and for the Regie des Transports
du Mali. At June 30, 1965 employees totalled 1857, of whom 796 were
permanent and 1,061 auxiliary staff. There is obvious labor redundancy.
During negotiations the Government and the Railway agreed to reduce the
Railway's total payroll (including fringe benefits) by 5% during each of
the three fiscal years 1966/67-1968/69; the reduction would be calculated
on the basis of the budgeted payroll figure for 1965/66 amounting to
MF 725 million. In addition, assurances were obtained that the Railway
will continue to apply its policy of limiting promotion from auxiliary to
permanent status.
28.       Labor matters are settled by a Comite de Gestion established in
1963, which comprises representatives of the Railway and of the Union of
Railway Employees. Labor relations are good.
C. Operations
29.       Train operations are fully dieselized and basically simple
because there are no branch lines and only three shunting yards; in
Kayes, Bamako and Koulikoro. The only complication arises at Kayes where
the weight of 1,000 ton trains arriving from Senegal has to be reduced to
750 tons as the line between Kayes and Bamako has steeper gradients than
the Dakar-Kayes line.
30.       Total international freight traffic requires only six round trips
a week between Dakar and Kayes and eight between Kayes and Bamako; inter;.
national passenger traffic is handled by two trains each way per week.   It
has been agreed between the Mali and Senegal Railways that each will provide
half the number of required locomotives and rolling stock to carry all
international traffic, but owing to shortage of equipment in Mali the
agreed allocation has not so far been implemented and the larger part of the
equipment is provided by Senegal.
31.       About three round trips a week are required for local passengers
and freight in Mali. Therefore, total scheduled train operations on the
Mali Railway consist of about two trains each way per day.
32.       Signalling and communications systems are adequate for these
train operations and line capacity is more than ample for existing and
foreseeable traffic. Freight car control and utilization are unsatisfactory
resulting in long turn-around times, unnecessarily long retention of
Senegal-owned cars in Mali, and high demurrage charges. The unsatisfactory
car utilization is largely due to lack of motive power. The latter is
also often the main cause of backlogs in moving imports from Dakar to
Bamako and of diversion of traffic to thp Ahiddan rnoute.



-8-
33.          Owing to many on-line failures of motive power, train punctu-
ality is poor, and many derailments are caused by defective rolling stock.
Implementation of the Railway's rehabilitation and modernization program
would largely remedy these shortcomings.
D. Properties
34.          The single track meter gauge Mali Railway is 642 km long, and
492 km (Kayes-Bamako) have been re-railed in the past 35 years. The
Senegal Border-Kayes section (93 km) is 50 years old but in reasonable con-
dition; the Bamako-Koulikoro section (57 km) is 70 years old and in bad con-
dition. The condition of bridges is satisfactory; 110 km of track have been
welded continuously from station to station and all track is laid on steel
ties. Track. renewal of the Kayes-Senegal Border and Bamako-Koulikoro sections,
introduction of mechanical tamping machines and concentration of track main
tenance gangs are included in the rehabilitation and modernization program.
35.          Buildings are adequate for present and future requirements.    Sig-
nalling equipment is in good condition but part of the overhead line equipment
of the telecommunications system is obsolete and badly rusted giving rise to
frequent breakdowns. Renewal of the old wire is included in the program.
36.          The completely dieselized locomotive and railcar fleet consists
cf 11 line and 5 shunting locomotives and 2 railcars of which details are
shown in Table 1. During the three-year period, until mid-1963, that no rail
traffic existed between Mali and Senegal, virtually no maintenance of this
equipment was carried out because the Mali Railway had no repair shops and
lacked spare parts. The condition of the fleet deteriorated rapidly and at
the time that through traffic was resumed only 6 line locomotives were ser-
viceable.
37.          The Convention concluded between the Mali and Senegal Railways
after the resumption of rail traffic included a program for repairs of Mali
locomotives and rolling stock in the Senegal repair stops at Thies. Imple-
mentation of the program was not successful and the Mali Railway had to hire
Senegal locomotives.
38.          The Railway has built two sheds, one in Bamako and a smaller one
in Kayes, intended for repair workshops for its motive power and rolling stock.
It plans to equip and complete the Bamako shons and purchase spare parts for
locomotives and rolling stock as part of its program, in order to become
largely independent of Senegal Railways' repair shops.   Only major overhauls
of diesel locomotives would still be done at Thies.   The Mali Railway expects
that six of the present line locomotives will remain operable. The other
five line locomotives and, in addition, two shunters should be scrapped.    The
acquisition of line locomotives and shunters (under the program) would bring
the diesel fleet up to the strength needed to move the expected traffic.
39.          Of the passenger car fleet of 51 cars (see Table 1) many are
obsolete and in very bad condition.   Twenty cars will have to be scrapped
immediately and all remaining cars require a general overhaul. The shortage



-9-
of passenger stock would be made good by the acquisition under the program
of six passenger cars, two baggage vans, four railcars and ten trailers,
of which two railcars and six trailers have been recently delivered from
France.
40.       Freight cars total 243 (Table 1), of which 40 should be scrapped
immediately. The remaining cars are generally in bad condition and need
major repairs in the next few years. By the end of 1968 a further 27 cars
will have to be scrapped. During the program period, 107 freight cars would
be purchased.
E. Traffic
(a) Freight
41.       Before the break-up of the Mali Federation in the middle of 1960,
freight traffic on the M4ali section of the Dakar-Niger Railways amounted to
approximately 300,000 tons a year. Of this, about one-half was imports, the
main categories being cement and building materials (40,000 tons), petroleum
products (35,000 tons) and processed foodstuffs (40-50,000 tons). Exports
amounted to about 100,000 tons a year, of which half was groundnuts. The
remainder was local traffic. The commodity composition of today's traffic
is different mainly because of reduced exports. In 1964/65, two-thirds of
total traffic consisted of imports, and only 18 per cent of exports, the
remaining 15 per cent being local traffic. For the first ten months of
1965/66 the traffic composition was 78, 10 and 12%.
42.       Traffic figures are given in Table 2, which shows the decline in
freight tonnage after international traffic ceased. Total tonnage was
reduced to 66,000 tons of local freight only in each of the years 1961 and
1962 (18 million ton/km a year). Since operations through Senegal have
resumed, freight traffic has improved as follows:
1963/64 11                   1964/65 1/
Tons     T/km               Tons       T/km
(000)  (million)            (000)    (million)
Imports           125                          148
Exports            36                           40
Local               48                          34
Total     209        97                222        108
43.       The greater part of the freight traffic is in full car loads.    The
present Convention between the Mali and Senegal Railways provides for the
running of fully loaded cars only, and small shipments are compulsorily
grouped by the shippers, trade firms or agencies.
1/ July 1-June 30. The Mali Railway has recently changed its fiscal year
from the calendar year to July-June; all 1963-65 and forecast statistics
in this report are from mid-year to mid-year.



-o0-
44.       At the present time the Railway is unable to carry all the freight
available because of the inadequacy of traction in Mali. Some traffic which
could have been carried by rail from or to the ports of Dakar and Kaolack
has been diverted to Abidian on the Ivory Coast to reach or leave Mali by
the southern route.  Mali traffic carried by the Abidjan-Niger Railways was
approximately as follows:
1961     117,000 tons
1962     147,000 tons
1963     108,000 tons
1964      88,000 tons
1965      n.a.
It is thought that a substantial part of this traffic will be recaptured by
the Mali Railway when it has the necessary motive power.
45.       While the up-traffic consisting of imports has no seasonal pattern,
the down-traffic to Dakar and Xaolack consisting of exports is mostly con-
centrated in five months (February to June) of each year. In the export
season, stockpiles of groundnuts accumulate at points of origin for lack of
transport facilities or good organization. Owing to lack of suitable
storage there is spoilage through acidification and exposure. At present
some agricultural products are hauled in open cars for lack of suitable
covered freight cars, involving risk of deterioration and theft.
46.       Forecasts of future freight traffic are based on the product-by-
product estimates given in Table 2 for 1970171. Year by year estimates are
given in Table 3 up to 1971. International traffic which was 188,000 tons
in 1964/65 is forecast to increase by 75 per cent by 1970/71, an annual in-
crease of 12 per cent as compared with an expected increase of 4-5 per cent
per annum in GNP. This apparent anomaly is due to the fact that the traffic
forecast is based more on the Railway's ability to take up existing traffic,
presently lost to the road and to the southern rail route, than to the
limited possibilities of Mali's economic growth. Furthermore, main commo-
dities such as cement, building materials and petroleum products, which
represent more than 50 per cent of the expected imports in 1970/71, result
from existing long-term bilateral agreements which provide for increases.
Local traffic, the carriage of which is now seriously restricted by lack of
rolling stock is expected to regain its pre-1960 level of about 50 000 tons
per annum.
47.       The average freight journey is approximately 490 km on a total
length of line of 642 km reflecting the predominance of the international
traffic to and from the Bamako region in the total traffic. In 1964/65,
average hauls were 537 km for international traffic and 225 km for local
traffic.
48.       During the period under review the overall freight traffic is
expected to remain unbalanced, imports and other up-traffic to Bamako being
about double the traffic in the down direction. However, the seasonal
nature of the exports results in approximate balancing of the import and ex-
port traffic during the export season.



(b) Passenger Traffic
49.       The passenger traffic figures given in Table 4 shlow that the
total number of passengers during the past five years has been approxi-
mately 500,000 a year. In 1964/65 the average length of journey was 117 kam
and passenger/km amounted to 55 million.
50.       The average occupancy of trains and railcars is high.    In 1964/65
the ratio of passengers to available seats amounted to 90 per cent in second
class and 69 per cent in first class on the international express trains, and
to 85 per cent on the one-class local trains and railcars. On the most
heavily travelled sections - from Bamako to Negala in the West and Koulikoro
in the East - many passengers are unable to board the trains in spite of
freight cars being used for carriage of passengers.
51.       The stabilization plan introduced by the Mali Government, which
involves substantial tax increases, has affected the 1964/65 traffic and is
likely to have a braking effect on potential increases in the near future.
On the assumption of a modest increase in living standards of one per cent
per annum and a rise in population of 2.4 per cent per annum, the improve-
ment of railway passenger services should result in an annual increase in
numbers of about 3 per cent. Year-by-year forecasts are given in Table 3.
F. Tariffs
(a) Freight Rates
52.       For international traffic there is a single rate per ton/km for
each category of goods. The rates have been established by agreement with
the Senegal Railways. There are lower rates for some commodities on
quantities above stated annual minima.   Rates for internal traffic in Mali
are higher than for international traffic and vary with speed and distance.
53.       Average freight receipts overall were MF 6.74 per ton/km in
1964/65 (US¢ 3.9 per short ton-mile). This fioure is not out of line with
average freight receipts on railways in other former French African
territories, as shown below:
HF Equivalent per ton/km
Abidj an-Niger                       5.95
Cameroons                            8.63
Coiigo-Ocean                         6.36
Senegal                              6.59 (excluding
phosphates)
54.       At the present time, international traffic receipts do not cover
costs in Mali (though they do in Senegal). IJith reduced costs resulting
from the rehabilitation and modernization program and with increasing
traffic, they would do so in the coming years and the present tariffs would
then be adequate.



-12-
55.       In view of the above considerations, it is not recommended to
propose alterations in the freight traffic structure of Mali Railway at
the present time.
56.       Tariffs on Mali international traffic are fixed by the Con-
vention (see Paragraph 6) between the iMali and Senegal Railways and are the
same per ton/km and per passenger/km on both railways. However, as costs
may vary between the railways the tariffs for international traffic should
not necessarily be the same for both railways. During the negotiations
for the Mali and Senegal credits both Governments and Railwqays agreed that
tariffs, including those for international traffic, should be established
on sound traffic costing principles and that, to this end, traffic costing
consultants should be appointed. For the sake of uniformity both Railways
agreed to appoint the same consultants, satisfactory to the Association,,
and with terms of reference, including the principles to be followed in
allocating costs and establishing accounts, prepared by the Association and
agreed during the negotiations.  Both Governments and Pailways further
agreed that as changes in costs applying to individual items of international
traffic may occur and may not be the same for both Railways, the tariffs
applicable to international traffic may have to be modified from time to time
and need not n-cessarily be th.- same for bot'h T?ilzays.  Agreement was further
reached that should at any time either Railway, on the basis of the findings
of the consultants or on the basis of changes in costs, wish to modify any of
its tariffs applicable to international traffic, the matter would be referred
to the "Comnaission iYixte", a body set up in 1963 with ministerial status to
meet regularly to discuss matters of common interest to both parties.
Should a decision on such a matter not be reached by the "Commission Mixte"
within an agreed period, either Railway may submit the case to arbitration
under the Railway Convention, but with time limits agreed during the
negotiations. Provision is made for the assistance of the Association to
be sought at any time in such matters. The Association will also be given
the opportunity of expressing its views before any arbitration award is made.
The appointment of the traffic costing consultants is a condition of
effectiveness of the credits. Part of the cost of the consultants' services
is included in the proposed credits.
(b) Passenger Fares
57.       Passenger fares were altered at January 1, 1964 when the number of
classes was reduced from three to two. ristribution of passengers between
classes before and after this change has been as follows:
Previous      Basic Fare     Present     Basic Fare
Distribution    M1T per km  Distribution   17 per km
First class         0.9%           5.5           8.8%         5.0
Second class        3.3%           4.5          91.2%         3.5
Third class        95.8%           3.5            -            -
First class is at present confined to the international express.  With the
acquisition of new railcars and trailers containing two classes, the per-
centage of passengers travelling first class should increase.



-13-
58.         Reduced fares are applied for local passenger traffic on both
sides of Bamako (Bamako/Negala - 61 km,, Bamako/Koulikoro - 57 kim) and corres-
pond to MF 3.40 per passenger/km, equal to bus fares charged in the same area.
Active and retired military personnel enjoy special fare reductions. There
are no other fare reductions for,welfare purposes, and since present re-
ductions concern only relatively few people, the Government does not refund
the Railway the loss in receipts resulting from such reductions. The Railway
grants reduced group fares and special low fares for larger groups generally
travelling on special trains on the occasion of religious, artistic or
commercial events.
59.         The average receipt per passenger/km in 1964/65 was MF 3.83 in-
cluding supplements such as reservations and berths. Standards of accommo-
dation are poor (excessive occupancy, obsolete equipment, freauent use of
covered freight cars) and will improve only with the greater efficiency and
better equipment resulting from the rehabilitation and modernization program.
60.         Passenger fares are high in comparison with the other African
railways mentioned above (for which, on average, they are MIF 2.50 equivalent
per km) and also in relation to the poor services provided. They are,
however, equal to bus fares where road competition exists. The aim of
covering costs precludes the possibility of significant reductions and after
rehabilitation, improved services should justify the present level of fares.
G. Finances
61.         In September 1960 the net assets of the former Dakar-Niger Rail-
ways were divided between Senegal and Mali in the ratio of 62/38, and the net
asset valuation of Mali's 38 per cent share was established as the equity
capital of Mali Railway contributed by the State. As part of this arrangement,
Mali Railway assumed liability for its share of the outstanding loans of
IBRD and CCCE (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique), includino exchange
losses resulting from the devaluations of the French franc.
62.         The State investment in the Railway as at September 1, 1960 was,
after adjustments, recorded at MF 5,624 million, and the IBRD and CCCE loans
outstanding amounted to MF 140 million.  This investment was represented by
fixed assets of MF 53658 million and net working capital of I-F 106 million.
Liquid assets were inadequate from the beginning, and it was necessary for
the Railway to have recourse to State loans and subventions to meet its day-
to-day operational requirements.
63.         Since September 1960 the Railwqay has suffered heavy financial
losses. The resumption of international traffic in mid-1963 has improved the
situation, but the full measure of traffic that existed before 1960 has not
yet been recovered. At the same time, personnel costs have increased as a
result of MIali nationals, previously employed by the Railways in Senegal,
being repatriated and taken on the payroll of the Mali Railway.
64.         The financial results are shown in the income and expenditure
accounts reproduced in Table 5 and summarized below. During the whole



period, 1961 to mid-1965, operating lcsses amounted to TF 1,442 million.
There was no depreciation (called "contribution to renewal fund") charged
until 1963, and the amounts subsequently charged were inadequate. The
Railway was unable to meet either interest or repayments on its existing
loans from CCCE and IBRD; these payments, and the operati.ng deficits, were
met partly by State subsidy and loan, and partly by bank ovrerdrafts.
Jan-Jun   July 1964-
1961   1962   1963     1964    June 1965
(Millions of Mali Francs)
Revenue                 403     397    678     513       1,063
Expenditure             779    831     939     522       1,175
Working deficit         (376)  (434)  (261)    ( 9)       (112)
Depreciation              0       0    100      30          70
Operating deficit      (376)   (434)  (361)    (89)       (182)
Interest                 18     17      16       7           7
Net deficit             (394)  (451)  (377)    (96)       (189)
Operating Ratio %       193     209    153      117        117
65.       The balance sheet of the Railw.ay as of June 30, 1965 shows the
effect of these operating conditions on the Railway's financial position and
is reproduced in Table 6. The position may be summarized in terms of
capital employed as follows in YF millions:
Capital Employed                       Represented By
Current Assets                         Current Liabilities
Cash                     13            Banlk Overdrafts   840
Receivables:                           Senegal Railways   166
Socopao    270                     Other               328
State      235                                                1 334
Other      306                   Short-term loan
811           Mali P & T                   173
Stores                  171        Other loans                      37
995        Equity held by State          4,880
Net Fixed Assets         5q429
6,424                                      6.424
66.       The provisional figures as of March 31, 1966, on which some
financial measures agreed during negotiations, and explained in the following
paragraphs, are based, are shown below in MF millions-



-15-
Capital Employed                      Represented BY
Current Assets:                       Current Liabilities:
Cash                        37        Bank Overdrafts     736
Receivables:                          Senegal Railways    239
Socopao     169                    Other               365
State       235                                              1,340
Other       237                 Short-term loan:
641        Mali P & T                  173
Stores                     180     Other loans                     28
853     Equity held by State         4,707
Net Fixed Assets            5,390
6, 248                                 6.248
67.       The cash position is unsatisfactory.  The Central Bank (Banque de
la Republique du Mali) overdrafts in current liabilities are short-term and
overdue. The Railway cannot liquidate its bank indebtedness unless the
State pays subventions to the Railway to cover its past unreimbursed
deficits which amount to IT 822 million as of June 30, 1965. According to
the Railway Ordinance. the State may meet the Railway's deficits by sub-
vention, if they are not covered by the Railway's own cash, by reserve funds
or by bank borrowing. In this case, there are no cash resources nor
reserves, and it is desirable to eliminate the Railway's bank borrowing.
This was agreed by the Government which has paid the Railway a subvention of
MF 822 million to cover its past unreimbursed deficits. As for the future,
during such time as the Railway's revenues may be insufficient, the Govern-
ment has agreed to provide the Pailway with funds in the form of subventions
(i) to service its debt, (ii) to establish and maintain adeouate working
capital, and (iii) to finance its capital expenditures.
68.       As agreed during negotiations the Government has also paid the
Railway a debt of F 235 million resulting from the settlement between Mali
and Senegal of the ex-Federation Railways.
69.       The actual cash movements involved in the above measures for im-
proving the Railway's finances were small. The State subvention of MF 322
million and the payment of the 4F 235 million debt have been used by the
Railway, as agreed during the negotiations, to pay off the bank overdrafts
of HF 736 million, leaving IF 321 million to the Railway for working capital
(TF 220 million) and, as explained below, for the gradual reduction of the
Railway's debt vis-a-vis the Senegal Railways.
70.       In the accounts receivable there is MF 169 million due from
Socopao (a French trading concern which acts as government agent in consigning
traffic to the Railway).  This is in effect a government's indebtedness to
the railway for services rendered.  As agreed during the negotiations, the
Government has paid this amount to Socopao which in turn has paid it to the
Railway. In addition, the Government has agreed to cause the liabilities
of the State-owned enterprises for services rendered by the Railway to be
kept in the future at a level consistent with sound commercial practices.



71.       As of March 31, 1966 the Mali Railway owed the Senegal Railways
M4F 239 million equivalent. In the course of the negotiations for the Mtali
and Senegal credits an agreement was reached for the transfer during 1967
of MF 239 million equivalent in CFA francs to be applied to the debt
between the two Railways.  As to the future, the Government of Mali has
agreed to make available promptly as needed the foreign exchange required
for payments arising from services rendered by the Senegal Railways. In
this connection satisfactory arrangements have already been made; since
April 1, 1966 the foreign exchange required to cover the railway transport
cost of M4ali traffic in Senegal is being made available in advance. During
the negotiations the Mali Governm.ent and the Mali Pailway have agreed to con-
tinue to apply this system.
72.       The short-term loan from Mali P & T of ME 173 million was made
in 1960 and 1961 to provide the Railway with working funds; it appears
in the Railway's accounts as repayable within a year, but has not been paid.
It has, therefore, been classified as loan capital in tne tables shown in
Paragraphs 65 and 66. As agreed during the negotiations it has been taken
over by the State and will be incorporated in,equity.
73.       The financial measures described in Paragraphs 67-72 can be
summarized as follows (I4F million):
By Government                        By Railway
Subvention of past deficits    822   Payment of Bank overdrafts       736
Payment of debt resulting            Payment of past Senegal Pail-
from settlement of Ex-               ways debt                      239
Federation PRailways         235   Increase in working capital      220
Payment of past Socopao debt   169   Increase of Equity                173
Incorporation in Equity of           Decrease of current liabilities   31
P & T loan                   173
Total        1,399                      Total       12399
74.       Other financial matters which were agreed during negotiations
are: (i) stores at MF 180 million, which are excessive and probably over-
valued, will be reviewed and, if necessary, written down to a realistic
value, (ii) depreciation charges, which were inadequate. will in the
future be calculated by reference to replacement cost and estimated length
of life of the fixed assets.
75.       The Railway's statutes provide for auditing of accounts by two
accounting officers (Commissaires aux Comptes) appointed by the Board of
Directors, assisted in an advisory capacity by a State Counselor appointed
by thne Government. During negotiations, agreement was reached for an annual
audit to be carried out by independent auditors, whose report will be made
available to the Association.



-17-
VI.  THE INVESTMENT PROGRAiM
A. The Rehabilitation and vIodernization Program and the Project
76.       In order to rehabilitate and modernize the Railway and enable it
to carry the expected traffic, a program has been established in agreement
with the Association. Details of this program, which provides the basis for
the Project, are given in Table 7 and are summarized below in IHF million:
Foreign Exchange Local Costs Total
Costs                      Costs
Track                            360            226        586
Locomotives and rolling
stock:
6 main line locomotives        282                       282
3 shunting locomotives          60                        60
4 railcars and 10
trailers                     249                      249
6 gangcars                      24                        24
6 passenger cars and
2 baggage vans               130                      130
107 freight cars                 312                       312
S/total          1,057                     1,057
Materials, workshop and
equipment                      600            101        701
Telephone lines                  130             50        180
Consulting services and
contingencies                  177             38        215
Total             2,324            415     2,739
US$ million equivalent           9.4            1.7       11.1
77.       Locomotive and rolling stock requirements comprise some 39% of
total expenditure.  Of the expenditure under this heading of 1IF 1,057
million (excluding contingencies), about one-third is for expansion of
rolling stock to meet higher levels of traffic in the future: the remainder
is replacement, including an element of technical improvement. Details on
the equipment to be scrapped and replaced by that provided in the Project
are given in Paragraphs 38-40 and in Table 1.
78.       The workshop and workshop equipment are required to enable the
Railway to perform its own maintenance and repairs of locomotives and cars,
with the exception of major overhauls of locomotives, which would continue
to be done at Thies. This involves an expansion of activities not
previously performed.   The Railway will need help in determining the best
layout of the workshop and the type of equipment required, and it has agreed



-18-
that consultants be employed for this work, their appointment being a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. The foreign exchange cost
of their services is included in the proposed credit.
79.       The track program comprises the renewal of part of the Kayes-
Senegal Border section and the relaying of the Bamako-Koulikoro section with
serviceable rails from the Kayes-Senegal border section. The 25/26 kg/m
rails of the Kayes-Senegal border section are in reasonable condition and
they could be kept in service for another 10 years. However, since the
Bamako-Koulikoro section urgently requires relaying, and the traffic is
much heavier between the border and Kayes than between Bamako and Koulikoro
it has been decided to lay the new 30 kg/m rail between Kayes and the border,
and to use the recovered track for replacement of the worn-out 20 kg/m rail
between Bamako and Koulikoro.
80.       The renewal of the telephone lines from the Senegalese border at
Diboli to Toukoto (330 km) is essential, as the lines at present used were
installed in 1910 and their poor condition causes continual breakdowns. The
telephone line between Bamako and Koulikoro (57 km), renewal of which is
also included in the Project, is in similar condition, and its renewal is
also essential.
81.       Of the total expenditure in the Project of F 2,739 million,
approximately two-thirds is for replacement of worn-out, obsolete and broken-
down equipment, and the remainder for additions.
B. Proposed IDA Credit and Project Financing
82.       The proposed IDA credit amounting to US$ 9.1 million (NF 2,242
million) would cover 82% of the total cost of the Project. It wgould finance
the foreign exchange cost of the Project (MF 2,324 million) except for
(i) payments made prior to January 1, 1965 on suppliers' credits for items
included in the Project (ME 60 million), and (ii) part of the Project which
has already been financed by FAC (MF 22 million). The proposed financing
of the Project is detailed in Table 7 and summarized below:
NT million              US$ million equivalent
IDA   FAC   Railway   Total   IDA   FAC   Railway   Total
Foreign Exchange 2,242   22      60    2,32-4  9.1   0.1      0.2      9.4
Local Costs         -     -     415      415    -     -       1.7      1.7
Total         2,242   22     475    2,739   9.1   0.1      1.9     11.1
83.       DurinR the negotiations it has been agreed that the proposed
credit funds will be relent by the Government to the Railway at the present
Bank interest rate (6% per annum and 3/8 of 1% commitment charge on un-
disbursed funds) for a term of 30 years including a three--year period of
grace.



-19-
84.       As agreed during the negotiations the Government has exempted the
Railway from the payment of any taxes or duties levied on the import of
goods to be financed by the proposed credit.
C. Project Execution and Procurement
85.       The award of contracts for procurement of the IDA-financed fcreign
exchange items dill be made by international competitive bidding except
for the following items, the cost of which amounts to 38% of the proposed
IDA credit:
MF million
(1)  Items already ordered:
(a)  2 locomotives BB 1100                    94
(b)  3 shunting locomotives                   60
(c)  2 railcars and 6 trailers               136
(d)  2 gangcars                                8
(e) Components and spare parts for
rolling stock                             59
(f) Track spares and maintenance
equipment                                 23
380
Less: Payments made prior to January 1,
1965                                   (60)
FAC contribution                       (22)
298
(2) Items to be purchased directly in the
interest of standardization:
(a)  4 locomotives BB 1100                   188
(b)  2 railcars                               66
(c)  4 trailers                               47
(d)  4 gangcars                               16
(e)  Components and spare parts for
rolling stock                           173
(f)  Track maintenance equipment              20
510
Contingencies (10%)      51
561
859
(US$ 3.5 million equivalent)
The items already ordered ((1) above) are necessary and appropriate to the
Railway's operation and were ordered on negotiated contracts largely in the
interest of standardization of equipment.
86.       The Project has been ready for some time;   it was studied by the
Association's consultants and appraised by an IDA mission late in 1964.



-20-
However, the Association felt that it could not give further consideration
to the Project until satisfactory assurances had been obtained that the
steps necessary to redress the economic and financial situation had been or
would be taken, and therefore the credit negotiations for the Mali Railway
Project have been delayed. Meanwhile, the Mali Railway has continued
making payments for Project items already ordered. In these circumstances,
it is recommended that the Association reimburse payments made by the
Railway to the suppliers from January 1, 1965. As agreed during the
negotiations, the Railway is ma'ing arrangements with the
suppliers for payment of the outstanding balances on a cash basis, thus
eliminating further charges.
87.       The local cost of the Project, to be financed by the Railway,
covers track renewal, workshop construction and telephone line renewal;     it
amounts to MF 415 million. All local materials and contract works will, to
the extent practicable, be procured and awarded through local competitive
bidding.
88.       The Mali Railway is competent to carry out the Project.    It needs,
however, the assistance of the eight technicians (Paragraph 24) and con-
sultants for the workshop (Paragraph 78). Because the financial and
managerial responsibility for the execution of the Project will rest with
the Railway, a Project Agreement will be concluded between the Mlali Railway
and the Association. The Agreement provides for priority in the carrying
out of the Project, if necessary by deferment of other works; it also
provides for consultation with the Association before incurring sub-
stantial capital expenditures outside the Project.
V.  FUTURE EARNITTGS ATD FINTANCES
A. Forecast Operating Income and Expenditure
89.       Mali Railway's operating income and expenditure account is fore-
cast in Table 3 and a su=mary reproduced below. Motes on the method of
compilation are given in Annex A. The forecast shows improving profita-
bility, which depends for its realization on the economy of the country
developing without major setbacks, on the Railway recapturing traffic
presently lost to the Abidjan route, and on the Railway containing its costs
to the reasonable levels estimated by improving the efficiency of operation.
Operating    Net         Net Surplus    Cash Surplus
Gross      Expenses      Operating   (Deficit)after after Inter-
Operating   Including    Surplus    Interest and    est before
Revenue    Depreciation (Deficit)   Depreciation    Depreciation
1964/65 11      1,063       1,245        (182)        (189)          (119)
1965/66 2/      1,128       1.282        (154)        (156)            4
1966/67         1,262       1,281        ( 19)        ( 54)          129
1967/68         1,395       1,271         124           34           247
1968/69         lr515       1,206        309           183           410
1969/70         1,575       1,225        350           215           447
1970/71         1,636       1,244         392          259           496
1/ Actual figures
2/ Based on actra1 fi3iires of thp ftrst pine .m h- o< t,(e f.       :?l ar



-21-
90.       In 1967/68 there would be a small net surplus which would increase
substantially in the following years. The operating ratio, which was 117 in
1964/65, is expected to drop to 80 in 1968/69 and to 76 in 1970/71. The in-
terest earned and debt coverage ratios would be satisfactory from 1967/68 on.
The return on investment calculated on net operating revenue as a percentage
of the average net fixed assets improves from -3.4% in 1964/65 to 4.1% in
1968/69 and to 5.2% in 1970/71 and may be expected to improve further in
subsequent years. Rates of return of 4% and 5% have been agreed during the
negotiations as the goals to be reached in 1968/69 and 1970/71 respectively,
and not less than 6% thereafter.   It has also been agreed that, should the
Railway be in danger of failing to achieve these goals, it would propose the
necessary measures, including but without limitation tariff adjustments,
promptly to correct the situation and the Government has agreed to approve
them.
91.       An exceptionally large elemnent in costs is the price of fuel.   At
present, the prices of all petroleum products are fixed throughout the
country by the Government in agreement with the oil companies, with only
minor variations between districts. Apart from the incidence of taxes, this
results in the Railway paying a much higher price for fuel than wbhat it would
pay on a competitive basis free from price equalization. The Railway at
present pays about NP 38 per liter (US¢ 55 per gallon).   Of this price,
MF 5.5 is for the road fund tax, which is refunded to the Railway, and some
MN 10 is for other taxes. It is estimated that inclusive of these taxes,
the Railway should be able to buy its fuel in bulk, on long-term, contracts,
delivered on the Senegal border at no more than NP 25 per liter. During
negotiations the Government agreed to review promptly the existing price
equalization ard taxation systems for fuel with a view to granting exemptions
to the Railwlay.  In addition, the Railway agreed to enideavor to conclude long-
term contracts for the purchase of fuel on more favorable terms; this would
be done in consultation with the Government.
B. Forecast Cash Flow
92.       The cash flow forecast for the period 1965-71 is given in Table 9.
The forecast incorporates the results of the financial measures explained in
Paragraphs 67-73. It also makes allowance for capital expenditures outside the
Project, estimated at NI 100 million a year during the Project period and at
MF 200 million a year thereafter. In this connection it has been agreed
during the negotiations that the Railway will not incur any substantial
capital expenditures other than those included in the Project without prior
consultation with the Association. Under these assumptions the Mali Railway
will be able to meet its current liabilities, establish and maintain
adequate working capital, meet capital expenditures and create liquid
reserves estimated to amount to about NF 800 million in 1970/71. A cash
surplus of this magnitude would be in excess of reasonable needs, and at such
time as it materializes the Railway should consider prepaying to the Govern-
ment the relent proceeds of the proposed IDA credit.
93.       The summary of the cash flow over the Project period, and until
1970/71, is as follows:



-22-
MF million
1965/69     % _    1965/71     x
Sources of Funds
Cash from operations                      247      7      1,190      26
State debt                                235)    30        235)    24
State subvention                         822)               822)
Proposed IDA credit                     2,242     63      2,242      50
Total              3,546    100      4,489     100
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditure                     2,959             3,359
Debt Service                               37               105
Increase in Working Capital               220               220
3,216              3,684
Cash Surplus                              330               805
The above table shows that the Railway investment and working capital require-
ments would be more than covered, leaving a substantial surplus which could
be used for the establishment of reserves and/or the prepayment of IDA funds
to the Goverunment.
C. Forecast Balance Sheets
94.       The forecast balance sheets position 1965/71 is given in Table 10,
and may be summarized as follows!
MF million
6/30/65     6/30/69      6/30/71
Liquid assets                     824         605         655
Current liabilities             1,334         385         435
Net working capital              (510)        220         220
Stores                            171         180         180
Net fixed assets                5,429       7,605       7,536
Total Assets          5)090      8,005        7,936
Debt                              210       2,242       2,174
Equity and Reserves             4580        5r763_      5762
Total Liabilities          5,090       8,005       7,936
95.       With the present illiquid position being rectified by the actions
explained in Paragraphs 67--73, the current ratio improves from 0.6 to 1.7
and the liquid ratio from 0.5 to 1.3. Both ratios are projected to remain
at about these levels throughout the period. The debt/equity ratio is 4/96,
and with the short-term loan of MF 173 million from the >'ali P & T now in-
corporated in equity, virtually all of the Railway's capital is held in the
form of equity. This decreases as the proposed IDA credit is drawn, and the
debt/equity ratio changes to 28/72 in 1969.



-23-
96.       No allowance has been made for the recommended reduction of stores
from their present excessive level because of the uncertainties involved in
their review and writing down to realistic value.
VI. ECOIOMIC JUSTIFICATION
97.       The Project is justified on the followqing economic grounds:
(i)  The expenditure is essential to enable the Railway
to continue operating other than at reduced levels
and at high and increasing cost.
(ii)  The Railway provides the least costly means of trans-
port between Bamako and the Atlantic coast (see Para-
graph 98). It also provides the only practical sur-
face communication between Bamako and the Niger
Valley on the one hand, and Senegal on the other,
as well as between Bamako, Toukouto and Kayes, since
the roads are not in a suitable condition for long-
distance traffic.
(iii)  It is, in terms of costs, attractive for river traffic
as far as Segou or even Mopti to use the Railway as
an outlet to the Atlantic coast. Without a rail link
with the Niger at ioulikoro, the use of the liger
River as an inexpensive means of transport would be
impaired.
98.       The principal alternative route to the Atlantic coast issouthwards
by road to Ouangolodougou on the Abidjan-Niger Railway, and thence by rail
to the port of Abidjan. From and to Bamako, shipping by rail via Dakar has
a cost advantage of the order of NT 4,000 a ton over shiDping by road and
rail via Abidjan on the basis of 1964/65 costs:
Distance      Cost per    Total Cost
km         ton/km       per ton
(MF Equivalent)
Rail - Bamako to Dakar
Bamako-Senegal border                        585          9.92         5,803
Senegal border-Dakar                         643          6.17         3,967
Total cost                                          29770
Road/Rail - Bamako to Abidjan
Road, Bamako Ouangolodougou                  544         17.00         9,248
Transshipment road/rail Ouango-
lodougou                                                               350
Rail, Ouangolodougou-Abidjan                 690          6.00         4,140
Total cost                                         13_738



-24-
There are also cost advantages for some traffic originating from or
destined for areas east of Bamako.
99.       The route to Conakry via Guinea does not provide a satisfactory
alternative, as neither road, river nor rail is suitable to carry heavy and
continuous traffic. A project for a rail link between Bamako and Kouroussa
on the Guinea Railway has been studied by Soviet experts, and the cost es-
timated at US$ 36 million. In addition to this investment the Guinea Rail-
way itself would require extensive rehabilitation in order to make this
route suitable.
100.      The economic return on the investment in the Mali Railway may be
measured by comparing the costs of transport of a traffic unit (one ton/
kilometer of freight or two passenger/kilometers) on the Railway after and
before rehabilitation. In 1968/69 this cost (excluding depreciation) is
estimated at HF 4.60, compared with TF 8.64 in 1964/65.   There is thus a
saving of NF 4.04 per traffic unit, which on 213 million units in 1968/69
means a total saving of MF 860 million. However, a substantial part of this
reduction arises not from the new investments but from reductions in the
labor force and from expected savings in the cost of fuel. W-Thile it is not
possible to separate the investment benefits and the benefits from other
improvements precisely, it would appear that perhaps one-half of the
benefits can only arise if the investments are made. On this basis, the
return on the investment over its useful life, and assuming no increase
in traffic after 1968/69, would be at least 15%. To the extent that traffic
increases without requiring further investment and unit costs fall in sub-
sequent years, this return would be increased. It would also be improved
by the fact that, without the investment, unit costs would increase from
their present level.
101.      The relaying of the track and the renewal of the telephone line
between Bamako and Koulikoro may be considered separately, as the remainder
of the proposals can be carried out without embarking on this work. The
alternative is to close this section down and have the Railway terminate at
Bamako. Koulikoro is, however, the only possible river port for Bamako,
since the river is not navigable between Koulikoro and Bamako. If this
section were closed down the connection between the Railway and river trans-
portation would be severed, and it would be necessary to transship any river
traffic coming from or destined for the Railway to Dakar twice - from rail to
road at Bamako and from road to river at Koulikoro. The problem is analyzed
in Annex B, which shows that this investment is economically justified.
VII. CONCLUSIOIS ANM RECOMIENDATIONS
102.      The Mali Railtway Project is intended to enable the Railway to con-
tinue its service and to carry the expected traffic efficiently. The
Project is technically sound, economically justified and should improve the
Railway's finances.



-25-
103.      The Project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$ 9.1 million equivalent to Mali to be relent to the Railway; a Project
Agreement would be concluded between the Association and the Mali Railway.
September 9, 1966



TABLE 1
M4ALI RAILWAY
Motive Power and Rolling Stock as at June 30, 1965
To be scrapped
Power per        Years of                             immediately or during
Number     Unit (HP)         Delivery        Manufacturers        Project period
Main Line Diesel Locomotives
1         1,330             1950           Whitcomb                    1
6         1,050             1959/65        Alsthom                     -
2           840            1954            Alsthcm                     2
2           610             1949/50        Alsthom                     2
11                                                                      5
Diesel Shunters
2           300             1953           Alsthom                     2
3           150             1956           Baudet
5                                                                      2
Diesel Railcars
2           500             1965           De Dietrich
Trailers
2
6                           1965           Billard
8
Passenger Cars
Age Group
(years)-     Number
Over 35        18                                                     18
25-35          12                                                      2
Less than 25   21 
Total        51   (of which lb are baggage vans)                    20
Freight Cars
Over 35        98                                                     61
25-35          60                                                      6
Less than 25   85 
Total       243                                                     67



MALI RAILWAY
Froight Trafficlt
(Tons 000)
Freat
l926       1957      1958 299 2            260      1961       1262      1963/64     196L/65     217077
WCtRTS                                                                                                         July - June
,oceriea, Sugar and Drinks       34/       36         39        47/       n..      -_                     19          17         25
itroleum Producta                32        34         35        34        n-                   -          23          35         45
at                               12        13         13        13        n                    -           8           9         12
meant, Bulding Materials         38        48         41        42        n                    -          50          53         80
ihicles                           2         3          2         3                  - _                    2           1          3
.hers                           2a        ..2j       _2         22        n         _                     23          33         55
138        158       154       161                                       125         148        220
:PORTS
oundnuts (including oil
and cake)             53-/       48        58         46       n         _                      25         28          50
llet and rice                     9/        8         10         8                  -          -           3           3         10
la                                5/       12         15        15                                         2           -          2
at, Hides and skins               1/        1          -         1        u                                1           1          3
tton and textiles                 2"        2          2         2                  - _                    3           4         30
her                              12        19         19        15                  - _                    2           4         15
82        90        -04         87                                        36         40        lIO
CAL TRAFFlC                      75        60         37        52        n.a        66         66        48          34          50
tal                             295       308        295       300        175        66         66       209         222         380
?igures for 1956-1959 refer to Mali Traffic on C. F. Region Dakar-Niger.



TABLE 3
MALI RAILWAY
Traffic, 1963-1965 and Forecasts 1966-1971
Freight                       Passengers
(Thousands of Tons)                    (Thousands)
International Local     Total
1963/64                161         48      209                     501
1964/65                188         34      222                     473
Forecast
1965/66 1/             200         35      235                     480
1966/67                235         40      275                     495
1967/68                270         45      315                     510
1.968/69               300         50      350                    525
1969/70                315         50      365                    540
1970/71                330         50      380                    555
1/ Based on actual traffic figures for the first ten months of the fiscal
year.



MALI RAILUAY
bNma.nr fraffi
(Figures ror 1956-60 are for Mali Passengers on the Dakar-Niger Railways)
July 1963     July 1964
1956                                    1960                1962      1963       June 1964     June 19%5
Passengers carried    000       425       410       351        367       380       505       440       497        501            473
Passenger/KM          Million    72        66        70         58        45        54        47        49         54             55
Average travel
distance            Km        169        161       199       158       118       107       107        99        108             u7



MALI R&ILWAY
Inom   and ExDonditure Aooount
158-196iL/65
(CFAF and MF million)
Dakar-     Federal Railvay                      M a 1 i   R a i 1 w a y
Niger           of Mal
Region                                                                          July 1, 1964-
1958            Jak222  J iuff 1960 Ss-Deo 1960  192  1962  I21 Jan-Jua 192    June 30. 1965
INCOM4E
Traffia Revnue                                3,710  3,733       2,593           77        364    348    606      493             968
Other Revenue                                   I2    _ 28                                 _ 2L  -.  L9   72       20            -95
Totl Blevenu                          3,762   3,761       2,617          77        403    397    678      513           1,063
EXPENDITURE
Wiges and Salarios                            2,492  2,699        1,786         172        600    662    698      347             709
Fuel and Lubricants                             212     245        206            8         52     42     63       35              86
Materials and Miaoellaneoum                     L8        1S                      22        32 12        178      la             -80
Total Operating  ipxenditure          3,142   3,585       2,500          202       779    831    939       522          19175
Working Surpluw/(Deficit)                       620     176         U7          (125)      (376)  (434)  (261)     ( 9)          (112)
Depreoiatioun                                   436     436         291           -         -      -      100       80             70
Operating Surpluw/(Defioit)                     184    (260)       (174)        (125)      (376)  (434)  (361)     (89)           (182)
Financial Gharg.osl Interest   )                 50      73          30           -          18     17     16        7               7
Repayments)                                                              25     26     21       14              29
Total Surplus/(Deficit)                         134    (333)       (2(4)        (125)      (419)  (477)  (398)    (110)           (218)
Operating Ratio (%)                              95     107         107          262        193    209    153      117             117
I/ Includes repayments as in Railway's accounts



MALI RAILWAY
Bilance Sheet at June 30. 1965
(MF million)
CURRENT ASSETS                                                       CURRENT LIABILITIES
Cash                                               13             Bank Overdrafts                          840
Senegal Railways                         166
Receivables                                                       Ex-Federation                             18
Socopao                                 270                       Other                                    310
Other Traffio                           133                                                                          1,334
Non-traffic                             106                       Short-term Loan
Agents                                    4                       Mali P and T                                         173
Ex-Federation                            63
Settlement of Ex-Federation                                       Other -ioana
due from State                       25IERD - due within 1 year                                          27
811                    due in subsequent yeara            -
Storea                                                            CCCE - due within 1 year                   4
In warehouse                            156                              due in subsequent years             6
In transit                               1S37
171             Equitv held by State
Capital contributed                    5,908
Total Current lssets                           995             Contributions to Investments             115
Contribution by FAC                       22
FIXED ASSETS                                                         Contribution to Renewal Fund             252
Gross value at September 1, 1960      5,658                       Railway Loans redeemed by State           93
Net additions to June 30, 1965          459                                                              6,390
Less Accumulated Depreciation          (688)                      Less Accumulated Depreciation           t688)
Leas Defioitst 1964/65                  (218)
Total Net Fixed Assets                       5,429                             Prior Years                       4.880
TOTAL ASSETS                                 6,424                  TOTAL LIABILITIES                            6,424           a,



MALI RAILlWAY
THE P1:JECT AND ITS PROPOsED FINANCING
(HF million)
FORSIGN COSTS                 LOCAL                        PROPUSED FINANCING
Committed     Propoaed        Total  COSTS
All         IDA         FAC          Railways
THE PROJECT                                                                              CoTtal                             Foreign  Local
Track
1. Relaying of part of the Kaysa-
Senegal BDrdar section (57 km)                                          334           334    100     434         334                              100
2. Relaying   of the Bamako-Koulikoro
section with serviceable rails from
the Iaye.-Sezngal Ebrd r section (57 bi)                                 26           26    126      152          26                              126
Sltotal                                             360            360   226      586         360                              226
Locomotives and Rolling Stock
3. 6 main line locomotives
BB 1100 type                                              94           188            282            282         262         20
4. 3 shunting locomotives                                     60                           60             60          58        '2
5. 4 rallcars                                                 66            66            132            132         112                    20
6. 10 trailers                                                70             47           11?            117         106                    11
7. 6 gangcars                                                  8             16            24             24          16                     8
8. 6 passenger cars and
2 haggage vans                                                          130           130            130         130
9.  107 freight cars                                                        312           312            312         312
S/total                               298           759          1,057          1,057         996         22         39
Materials. Workshop and Equipment
10. Components and Spare Parts for
rolling stock                                             59           173           232            232         221                    11
11.  9/orkshop and l1orkshop equipment                                      325            325   101     426         325                              101
12. Track Spares and Maintenance equipment                     23            20            43             43          33                    10
S/total                                82           518            600    lfll    701         579                    21        101
Signalling and Telecommunications
13. Renewal of telephone lines on
the Diboli-Toukoto (330 km) and
Bamako_Koulikoro (57 km) sections                                      130           130     50     180         130                               50
Total                                 380         1,767          2,147    377   2,524       2,065         22         60        377
Contingencniea ,nd Consulting Services
14.  lO9b or non-committed                                                  177            17?7   38      215         17,                              38
Grand Total                           380         1,944          2,324    415   2,739       2,24;2        22         60        415
---- 475 ----
US$ million equivalent                                        1.5           7.9            9.4    1.7    11.1         9.1        0.1             1.9



MALI RAILWAY
FORECAST OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENDITURE 1965-1971
(MF million)
Actual
1964/65     1965/66     1966/67    1967/68     1968/69     1969/70     1970/71
Operating Revenue
Passengers and baggage                                    212         219         229        240         251         259         266
Freight                                                   732         792         924      1,052       1,163       1,212       1,262
Service traffio                                             3           4           5           5          5           5           5
Mail                                                       12          12          12         13          13          13          13
Senegal - repairs and rents                                33          27          15           5          -           -           _
Miscellaneous                                              71          74          77          80         83          86          90
Total Operating Revenue                            1,063       1,128       1,262       1,395       1,515      1,575       1,636
Operating Expenses
Wages and Salaries                                        709         725         689         653        617         617         617
Fuel and lubricants                                        86         .93         109        125          92          96         100
Materials and Miscellaneous                               204         210         220         230        240         250         260
Senegal - repairs and rents                               176          94          80          50          30         30          30
Total Working Expenses                             1,175       1,122       1,098      1,058          979        993       1,007
Working surplus (deficit) before depreciation            ( 112)         6         164        337         536         582         629
Depreoiation                                               70         160         183         213        227         232         237
Operating surplus (deficit) after depreciation           ( 182)      (154)       ( 19)       124         309         350         392
Interest charges:
Existing IBRD and CCCE loans                              7           2           1
Proposed IDA credit                                                              3L          90         126        135         133
S/total                                                7           2          35          90         126         135        133
Net surplus (deficit)                                    ( 189)       (156)       (54)         34        183         215         259
Debt Amortization                                          29          31           3           2           1          33         35
Operating Ratio (%)                                       117         114         102          92          80          78         76
"Interest Earned" ratio                                    -           -           ,          1. 4x       2.5x        2.6x       2.9x
Debt coverage ratio                                        -           -          4.3x        3.7x        X.2x        3.5X       3.?x
Average net fixed assets                                 5,340       5,476      5,905       6,780       7,L39       7,589      7,555
Return on average net fixed assets (P)                   (-3.4)     (-2.8)       (0.3)        1.8         L.1         4.6        5.2



MALI RAILWAY
FORECAST CASH FLOW 1965-1971
(MF million)
Total                               Total
1965/66        1966/67     1967/68     1968/69      1965/69      1969/70     1970/71     1965/71
Sources of Funds
Available at beginning of period                        (543)          (670)        143          88        (543)        330         544          (543)
Net surplus (deficit)                                   (156)          ( 54)         34         183           7         215         259          481
Depreciation                                             160            183         213         227         783         232         237        1,252
State Debt                                                              235                                 235                                  235
Subvention for past deficits                                            822                                 822                                  822
Proposed IDA oredit                                                     950         900         392       2,242                                2,2h2
Total                                              (539)         1,466       1,290         890       3,546         777       1,040        4,489
Application of Funds                                                                                            2'
The Project                                                           lep00       1,100         459       2,559 -2                             2,559
Other capital expenditure                                100            100         100         100         400         200         200          800
Debt amortization:
Existing IBRD and CCCE loans                            31              3           2           1          37                                    37
Proposed IDA credit                                                                                                    33          35           68
Working Capital                                                         220                                 220                                  220
Totea                                               131          1.323       1,202         560       3,216          233         235        3,684
Balance Carried Fbrward                                 (670)           1i3          88         330         330         544         805          805      L
rp:
/ Current Liabilities             1,334                                                                    a/ Project total cost      2,739
Less outstanding suppliers'                                                                               Paid prior to
credits included in the                                                                                July 1, 1965          ( 180)
proposed IDA credit        200                                                                                               2,5
1,134
Liquid assets                   826
Less due from State             235
591
(543)



t4ALI RAILWAY
PRO-.FORA BAlANCE SHEETS AS OF JUNE 30. 1966-1971
(MF million)
Actual
1965        1966        1967        1968        1969        1970        1971
ASSETS
Current Aasets:
Cash                                                        13          40         150         150         150         150         150
Receivables:
State                                                    235         235          -          -            -           -
Socopao                                                  270         200          70         70           80          80          80
Other                                                    306         250         350         350         375        400         425
Stores                                                     171         180         180         180         180         loO         180
S/total                                               995        *95          750         750         785         810         835
Fixed Asnets:
Gross value                                              6,117       6,371       7,317       8,517       9,076       9,276       9,476
Leos depreciation                                          688         848       1.031       1.244       1,471       1,703       1,940
Net Fixed As8ets                                    5.429       5.523       6a286       7,273       7,605       7.573       7,536
TOTAL ASSETS                                        6,424       6,428       7,o36       8,023       8,390       8,383       8,371
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Bunk overdrafts                                          840         750          -           -           -           -
Senegal Railways                                         166         250         152          60          60          70          70
Other                                                    328         556         300         325         325         350         365
S/total                                             1,334       1,556         452         385         385         420         435
Short-term P and T loan                                    173         173          -           -           -           -           -
Long-term Debt:
IBRD and CCCE loans                                       37           6           3           1          -           -           -
Proposed IDA credit                                                              950       1,850       2,242       2.209       28174
S/total                                                37           6         953       1,851       2,242       2,209       2,174
Eauity held by State:
Capital contributions and reserves                     4,880       4,693       5,631       5,787       5,763       5,754       5,762
tlo
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                   6,424       6,428       7,036       8,023       8,390       8,383       8,371
Current Ratio                                              0.7         o.6         1.7         1.9         2.0         1.9         1.9
Liquid Ratio                                               0.6         0.5         1.3         1.5         1.4         1.5         1.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                                         4/96        4/96       15/85       24/76       28/72       28/72       27/73



AI'MNE A
Page 1
Notes on Forecast Operating Income and Expenditure (Table 8)
A. Income
(a) Passengers
1.        Passenger traffic receipts in 1964/65 were IvIF 3.83 per passenger/km,
including supplementary receipts for reservations, berths, etc.., and this
average has been used for the computation of future passenger traffic revenue.
2.        The average distance travelled in recent periods has been as
follows:
Period                        Average Distance
1962:  January to June                    91 Ian
1963:  July to December                  101 km
1964:  January to June                   113 ln
1964/65:  July to June                      117 ko
The reopening of the line to Dakar in mid-1963 resulted in an increase in
the average length of journey; because of the future development of
international passenger traffic the average length of journey is expected
to increase gradually to 125 km by 1968/69, and to remain at that figure
through 1970/71.
3.        The number of passengers is expected to increase by 3% per annum,
from 473,oo0 in 1964/65 to 555,000 in 1970/71;  passenger/km would increase
from 55 million in 1964/65 to 69 million in 1970/71, an annual increase of
4.2%.
(b) Freight
4.        In 1964/65 total freight tonnage was 222,000 tons, carried over
an average distance of 489 km (464 km in 1963/64);  the average freight
traffic receipts were MF 6.74 per ton/lan, resulting in a total revenue of
MF 732 million.   Because of the increasing predominance of international
traffic in the total traffic, the average haul is expected to rise gradually
to 515 km by 1968/69, and to remair. at that figure through 1970/71.
5.        Average receipts are expected to fall slightly from MF 6.74 per
ton/km in 1964/65 to MF 6.45 per ton/km in 1968/69, owing to a bias towards
the lower-rated commodities, such as cement, building materials and ferti-
lizers among imports, and groundnuts and cotton among exports.   Tonnages
are forecast to increase by 75% in 1970/71 (paragraph 46) resulting in an
increase in ton/km from 109 million in 1964/65 to 196 million in 1970/71.
On the above basis freight traffic revenue would increase from PT 732 million
in 1964/65 to IW 1,262 million in 1970/71, an increase of 72%.



AiT= A
Page 2
(c) Miscellaneous
6.        They consist principally of catering revenue, rent of buildings
and refund of the road tax on fuel (see paragraph 8, below).
B. Working Expenditure
(a) Wages and Salaries
7.        As explained in paragraph 27 the Railway's staff is too large in
relation to the size of present and future operation and an annual 5%
reduction in personnel costs has been assumed for the years 1966/67 through
1968/69. No allowance has been made for the staff requirements of the work-
shop included in the Project since itis estimated that this force could be
made available from existing staff of other technical departments.
(b) Fuel and.Lubricants
8.        It may be-that the exemption of the Railway from the price
equalization and taxation systems for fuel takes some time (paragraph 91).
Fuel costs have, therefore, been computed on an MF 38-per liter basis until
1967/68, and on an MF 25-per liter basis thereafter. Quantities have been
increased proportionately to the expected increase of train/km.
(c) Materials and Miscellaneous
9.        Because of the bad condition of equipment, maintenance requirements
are high. The new equipment included in the Project, a small part of which
is being delivered, and the scrapping of obsolete and deteriorated loco-
motives and rolling stock will have a favorable effect on maintenance costs.
However, expenditures under this heading are expected to increase because of
the expected increase in train/km.
(d) Senegal - Repairs and Rents
10.       In the under-equipped state of the Mali Railway it has been
necessary to hire much rolling stock from Senegal; repairs in Thies work-
shops have also been important; this is shown in the figure of MF 176
million for 196h/65. With the delivery of the equipment included in the
Project (of which two locomotives, two railcars and six trailers have
already been delivered) this expenditure is expected to drop rapidly. When
Mali's own workshop will be in operation, repairs by Thies will be confined
to major overhauls of line locomotives.
C. Depreciation
11.        In the past depreciation charges were inadequate.   In the forecast,
depreciation has been calculated on a 2-1/2% annual allowance, based on an
average hO-year life of the existing depreciable assets and of the items in-
cluded in the Project.



AMIM A
Page 3
D. Interest Charges
12.       They include (i) charges for the remaining portion of the Mali
share of the IBRD and CCCE loans and (ii) the proposed DA credit which
is         to be relent by the Government to the Railway on the present
Bank terms (6% interest per annum and 3/8 of 1% commitment charges on
undisbursed funds) for 30 years including a 3-year period of grace.
E. General
13.       No price escalation has been assumed in any of the financial
forecasts for the following reasons:
(1)  Since the Railway's payroll is expected to be contained
within the limits explained in paragraph 27, inflationary
factors will not affect it in the next years.
(2) The operating expenses other than (1) are mainly steel and
fuel, the world prices of which are expected to be stable
in the foreseeable future.
However, should there be operating cost increases because of inflation,
tariff adjustments will be required; this possibility and the remedial
action thereon have been discussed and agreed with the Government and the
Railway (see paragraph 90).



ANNEX B
Page 1
MALI RAILWAY
The Bamako-Koulikoro Section
1.         The relaying of track and renewal of telephone line of the
Bamako-Koulikoro section (57 km) forms part of the rehabilitation and moderni-
zation program of Mali Railway. This proposed investment may be evaluated
separately from the rest of the program, since if it did not give an ade-
quate economic return this section of the line could be closed down.
2.         To keep this section of the railway in operation it is necessary
to invest MF 330 million. The new 30 kg/m rail acquired would be laid on
the main line between Kayes and the Senegal frontier, and the old rails
salvaged from there re-laid on the Bamako-Koulikoro section. The depreciated
value of the re-laid rails has, therefore, been attributed to the investment
cost of the Bamako-Koulikoro section.
3.         If the section were closed down, traffic which would otherwise use
this route would have to be routed differently. The estimated present-day
freight costs of Atlantic coast traffic by this route and by possible alter-
natives are as follows, using Segou, the first major river port east of
Koulikoro, as point of origin or destination.
(i) Segou to Koulikoro by river and thence by rail to Dakar:
Distance    Cost per      Cost per
ton/km          ton
km         (MF equivalent)
Segou-Koulikoro (river)       200        h.25          850
Transshipment-Koulikoro                                350
Koulikoro-Senegal Border      642        9.92        6,369
Senegal Border-Dakar          643        6.17        3,967
11,536



AICEX B
Page 2
(ii) Segou to Koulikoro by river, thence by road to Bamako, thence
by rail to Dakar:
Segou-Koulikoro (river)        200            4.25          850
Transshipment-Koulikoro                                     350
Koulikoro-Bamako (road)         57           17.00          969
Transshipment-Bamako                                        350
Bamako-Senegal Border         585             9.92        5,803
Senegal Border-Dakar           643            6.17        3,967
12,289
(iii) Southern route: Segou to Ouangolodougou by road, thence by rail
to Abidjan
Segou-Ouangolodougou (Road)    466           17.00        7,922
Transshipment-Ouango'odougou                                350
Ouangolodougou-Abidjan
(Abidjan-Niger Railways)     690             6.00       4h140
(iv) Segou to Bamako by road, thence by rail to Dakar:
Segou-Bamako (road)            240           17.00        4,080
Transshipment-Bamako                                        350
Bamako-Senegal Border         585             9.92        5,803
Senegal Border-Dakar           643            6.17        3,967
4.        The unit costs given above for road transport are typical costs at the
present time; in fact road costs vary within wide limits according to size of
vehicle used. The Government has set a rate of about IF' 13 per ton/km, but
the Government-owned trucking company incurs a substantial loss at that rate.
Accordingly, and also taking into account trucking costs in neigboring countries,
it would appear that actual trucking costs are muchhLigher and at least IF 17
per ton/km. The latter cost has been used in the above calculations which
show that the least costly alternative routing if the Bamako-Koulikoro section
were closed would be to use the river to Koulikoro, thence road to Bamako,
thence rail to Dakar. The cost per ton is approximately MF 750 more expensive
than if the whole journey to the coast from Koulikoro is done by rail, which
will be the case if the Bamako-Koulikoro section of the railway is kept open.



ANMEX B
Page 3
5.        On estimated traffic on the Bamako-Koulikoro section of 100,000 tons
a year in 1968/69(after completion of investment), the investment would save
MF 75 million p.a. over the least costly alternative.    This gives an economic
rate of return of approximately 20% on the investment, assuming 1964/65 costs
and traffic not rising after 1968/69.    Reductions in rail costs will be
achieved over the period but similarly road costs could be reduced by the use
of larger vehicles; these two factors are assumed to offset each other in cal-
culating future differential costs of alternative methods.    To the extent
that traffic continues to rise after 1968/69, as it is expected to do, the
rate of return on the investment in the railway would increase.



MALI RAILWAY                                                                  A L
-       . Il- dthways      \                           A L 6 E RI A
0 100  200  300  400  500        R go d. Cl,-otn d -cr du A..I  
K  I  L  0  U  E  T  e  R  S       N0.jorroads         I
M   A  U  R  I T   A  N      A               I
,4-<p                                                           TIKr nO.jctou                       1
E      ~N E Ci A L        4S_J___/                           3 
_ eelKd    t\Dibo11                                                                           /
---i 4 -X                                                                                e      o--
PORT.                     T    l     .gI  c
S G U y 8> [ 1w~~~~~~~~ U P P E R                     V O L T A ( 
a-d9 E SlXo*so doKgreOto                     BAcD  reelour -o,)
CONAK ~\4 A° 
O  ngelodeUo
w     >  S ~~I E R R A                                                  O      O          GE R I A
,^  ) ~L E O FI E,                        |                                    _)             ,
i t             < /        /               9           G    H A N A     I °    |        GERIA
t(lNE  1966



