CREDIT NUMBER 95 MLI
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 95 MLI
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1966


﻿AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1966, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association) and the REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER
DU MALI (hereinafter called the R6gie).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agree-
ment) between the Republic of Mali (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower a development
credit in various currencies equivalent to nine million one
hundred thousand dollars ($9,100,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that the R6gie agree to undertake
certain obligations to the Association as hereinafter in
this Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS the R6gie, in consideration of the foregoing has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. The Regie shall carry out the Project with
due diligen,e and efficiency and in conformity with sound


﻿4
railway, engineering and financial practices and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 2.02. The R6gie shall duly perform its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend,
assign, abrogate or waive any provision of such Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. In the carrying out of such parts of the
Project as the Association and the Regie shall agree upon,
the Regie shall employ competent and experienced con-
sultants and technicians acceptable to the Association, to
an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
SECTION 2.04. (a) Tpon request from time to time by
the Association, the Regie shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications
and work schedules for the Project and any material modi-
fications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Association shall request.
(b) The Regie shall maintain records adequate to iden-
tify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition;
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods, the Railways and any relevant records
and documents; and shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Project, the goods, and its administration, oper-
ations and financial condition.
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Association and the Regie shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-


﻿5
nish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Association and the R4gie shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance by the Regie of its obligations
hereunder or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
its administration, operations and financial condition.
(c) The R6gie shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
or the performance by the R6gie of its obligations under
this Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or which shall increase or threaten to increase
materially the estimated cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.06. (a) The Regie shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers or make other provision satisfac-
tory to the Association for insurance against such risks
and in such amount as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the Regie undertakes to insure the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the R4gie to replace or
repair such goods.
SECTION 2.07. Except as shall otherwise be agreed by
the Regie and the Association, the Regie shall use all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit exclusively in the
carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 2.08. Except in the normal course of business,
goods purchased or paid for out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of without
the prior consent of the Association.


﻿6
SECTION 2.09. (a) The Regie shall operate and maintain
the Railways, and from time to time make or cause to be
made all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering and railway practices.
(b) The Regie shall at all times manage its affairs, plan
the development of the Railways and maintain its financial
position all in accordance with sound engineering, railway,
financial and business principles and practices and with
qualified and experienced management.
SECTION 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Regie shall have its financial statements (balance
sheet and related statements of revenues and expenses) cer-
tified annually by an independent accountant or accounting
firm acceptable to the Association, and shall promptly after
their preparation and not later than six months after the
close of the Regie's fiscal year transmit to the Association
certified copies of such statements and a signed copy of the
accountant's or accounting firm's report.
SECTION 2.11. The Regie shall from time to time take
such steps (including, but without limitation, adjustments
in its rates and fares) as shall be required to provide
revenues sufficient, by such date or dates as shall be agreed
upon between the Borrower, the Association and the Regie:
(a) to ensure a reasonable return on its net fixed assets,
after covering all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance and depreciation; and (b) to enable it, out of
its cash resources, to meet debt interest and amortization,
to establish and maintain adequate working capital, and to
finance a material part of its capital expenditures.
SECTION 2.12. (a) The Regie shall give priority to the
carrying out of the Project and shall, if necessary to ensure
the prompt completion of the Project, defer the carrying
out of other works.
(b) Until the Project shall have been carried out, the
R'gie shall not incur any substantial expenditures for capi-


﻿7
tal goods or works other than those included in the Project
without prior consultation with the Association.
SECTION 2.13. The R6gie shall take such action as shall
be reasonable in the circumstances to facilitate railway
operations between the territories of the Borrower and the
territories of the Republic of Senegal, in accordance with
the International Traffic Agreement, the Customs Agree-
ment and the Railway Convention.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. (a) This Project Agreement shall come
into force and effect on the Effective Date.
(b) If pursuant to Section 6.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement, the Development Credit Agreement
shall be terminated, this Project Agreement and all obli-
gations of the parties hereunder shall also terminate and
the Association shall promptly notify the Regie thereof.
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement shall terminate
and the obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease and
determine: (i) on the date when the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or (ii) 30 years after the date of this Project Agreement,
whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice
or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿8
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
(a) For the R4gie:
Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali
Bamako
Mali
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Fermali
Bamako
Mali
(b) For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the R6gie
may be taken or executed by the Director of the Regie or
such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Regie shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the Regie, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by the Regie pursuant to any of the provisions of


﻿9
this Project Agreement or the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused
this Project Agreement to be signed in their respective
names by their representatives thereunto duly authorized
and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU AIALI
By s/ L. NEGRE
Authorized Representative
INTEILNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By s/ GEORGE . WOODS
President


