CREDIT NUMBER 95 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 95 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
S
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1966


﻿0
Bradaymeunt (Ergit Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1966, between REPUB-
LIC OF MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Regie du Chemin de Fer
du Mali (hereinafter called the Regie), an agency of the
Borrower, have requested the Association to assist in
financing part of a program for the rehabilitation and
modernization of the railways of the Borrower (herein-
after called the Rehabilitation Program);
WHEREAS the R6gie will, with the Borrower's assistance,
carry out such Rehabilitation Program and the Borrower
will as part of such assistance make available to the R6gie
the proceeds of the development credit provided for herein;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Senegal Development Credit Agreement).
between the Republic of Senegal and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make a development credit to the
Republic of Senegal to assist in financing part of the Second
Four-Year Investment Plan, 1965/1966-1968/1969 of the
Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal;
WHEREAS the Rehabilitation Program and the Second
Four-Year Investment Plan, 1965/1966-1968/1969 of the
Regie des Chemins de Fer du 86negal will be carried out
simultaneously in view of the complementary nature of the
Mali and Senegal railway systems;
WHEREAS the Association is willing on the basis of the
foregoing, to make a development credit available on the
terms and conditions provided herein and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Regie and
the Association;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to the Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated June 1, 1961,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifica-
tions thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1
as so modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is amended by
deleting the words "at the same rate" and substituting
therefor the words "at the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1o) per annum".
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is to
be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit are
to be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the
respective currencies of the countries from which
such goods are acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in (in-
cluding services supplied from) the territories
of the Borrower, in such currency or cur-
rencies as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which the
cost of goods financed out of such proceeds
has been paid or is payable.


﻿5
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from time
to time agree on any other currency in which with-
drawals shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03 as
follows:
"Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal
with Other Currency. If withdrawal shall be made in any
currency which the Association shall have purchased with
another currency for the purpose of such withdrawal,
the portion of the Credit so withdrawn shall be deemed
to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account in such
other currency for the purposes of Section 3.03."
(d) Section 3.04 is re-numbered Section 3.05.
(e) The first sentence of Section 4.01 is deleted.
(f) The words "or the Project Agreement" are inserted
in Section 6.02 after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement."
(g) Section 8.04 is deleted.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a) the term "Project Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and the
Regie;
(b) the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
loan agreement between the Borrower and the R4gie re-
ferred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(c) the term "Railways" means the railways owned,
operated or administered by the Regie and includes all
railway property, equipment and materials owned, operated
or administered by the Regie;
(d) the term "International Traffic Agreement" means
the agreement dated June 8, 1963, between the Borrower
and the Republic of Senegal relating to international rail-


﻿6
way traffic, as the same may from time to time be amended
by agreement of the parties thereto;
(e) the term "Customs Agreement" means the Accord
douanier dated June 8, 1963, between the Borrower and the
Republic of Senegal, as the same may from time to time
be amended by agreement of the parties thereto;
(f) the lerm "Railway Convention" means the conven-
tion dated June 8, 1963, between the Regie and the Regie
des Chemins de Fer du Senegal, as the same may from
time to time be amended by agreement of the parties
thereto; and
(g) the term "Statutes" means the Ordonnance No. 62
bis PGP/RM of November 29, 1960, published in the
Journal Officiel No. 78 of February 23, 1961, of the Bor-
rower, relating to the establishment of the Regie, and
includes the Statutes attached as a schedule to such
Ordonnance.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Associ-tion agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million one hundred thousand dollars
($9,100,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Development
Credit Agreement.
SECTIO. 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the provi-


﻿7
sions of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account: (a) such amounts as shall have
been expended for the reasonable cost of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (b) if the
Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be re-
quired by the Borrower to meet payments under the
foregoing;
provided, however, that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account
of (i) expenditures prior to January 1, 1965; or (ii) ex-
penditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in (including services supplied from) the terri-
tories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%o) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual instalments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing January 1, 1977 and ending July 1, 2016, each
instalment to and including the instalment payable on
July 1, 1986 to be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each instalment thereafter to
be one and one-half percent (11/2o) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost
of goods required to carry out the Project. The specific
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and


﻿8
the methods and procedures for procurement of such goods
shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower,
the Association and the Regie, subject to modification by
further agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering, railway and financial
practices.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidi-
ary Loan Agreement with the Regie, satisfactory to the
Association, which shall provide for the relending of the
proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof by the
Borrower to the Regie and shall contain appropriate provi-
sions with reipect to the financing and carrying out of
the Project and other obligations of the Borrower and the
R6gie under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Project Agreement. Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate
or waive any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTIoN 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make
available to the Regie, promptly as needed, all funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources which shall be required
for the carrying out of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Regie punctually to
perform all its obligations under the Project Agreement,
shall take all action which shall be necessary on its part
to enable the Regie to perform such obligations and shall


﻿9
not take or permit any action to be taken that would inter-
fere with the performance of such obligations by the Regie.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or lawN in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.06. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the exe-
cution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall from time to time
take or cause to be taken such steps (including, but without


﻿10
limitation, adjustments in the rates and fares of the Regie)
as shall be required to provide the R6gie with revenues
sufficient, by such date or dates as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower, the Association and the Regie: (i) to
ensure a reasonable return on the R6gie's net fixed assets,
after covering all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance and depreciation; and (ii) to enable the R6gie,
out of its cash resources, to meet debt interest and amorti-
zation, to establish and maintain adequate working capital,
and to finance a material part of its capital expenditures.
(b) Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
promptly to provide the Regie or cause the R6gie to be
provided, during such time as the Regie's revenues shall
be insufficient to meet f e items in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, WIL. funds sufficient to meet such items.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall take or cause the
Regie to take such action as shall be reasonable in the
circumstances to facilitate railway operations between its
territories and the territories of the Republic of Senegal,
in accordance with the International Traffic Agreement, the
Customs Agreement and the Railway Convention.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or
(ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations or in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall con-
tinue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower, then
at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof the
Association, at its option, may declare the principal of


﻿11
the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable imme-
diately, and upon any such declaration such principal shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in the
Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTION 5.02. Pursuant to paragra'h (j) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations, the folliowing are specified as additional
events for the purposes of said Section:
(a) The Regie shall have failed to perform any of its
covenants or agreements under the Project Agreement;
(b) The International Traffic Agreement, the Customs
Agreement, the Railway Convention or the Statutes shall
have been amended, suspended, waived, terminated or re-
pealed so as to affect adversely the ability of the Borrower
or the R6gie to carry out the covenants or agreements set
forth in this Agreement or in the Projeet Agreement;
(c) Railway traffic between the territories of the Bor-
rower and the territories of the Republic of Senegal shall
have been substantially interrupted for other than technical
reasons, unless such reasons shall be manifestly beyond
the Borrower's control;
(d) The right of the Republic of Senegal to make with-
drawals under the Senegal Development Credit Agreement
shall have been suspended or terminated in whole or in
part and as a result thereof, it will be improbable that the
purpose of the Project will be achieved; and
(e) Failure by the Borrower to fulfill an obligation to
make payment of principal or interest or any other pay-
ment required under this Development Credit Agreement
or under any other development credit agreement between
the Borrower and the Association or under any loan agree-
ment or guarantee agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank or under any bond delivered pursuant to any
such agreement even though payment has been made by
other persons.


﻿12
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b)
of the Regulations:
\a) That either concurrently with or prior to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement becoming effective, the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Sene-
gal Development Credit Agreement shall become or shall
have become effective and constitute valid and binding
obligations on the respective parties to those agreements
in accordance with their respective terms; and
(b) That arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
shall have been made with respect to the employment by
the RCgie, of the consultants and technicians referred to
in Sectio. 1 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Regie, that all acts, consents and approvals neces-
sary therefor have been duly and validly performed or
given, and that such Project Agreement constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Regie in accordance with its
terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the parties thereto, that all acts, consents and
approvals necessary therefor have been duly and validly
performed or given, and that such Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
parties thereto in accordance with its terms.


﻿13
SECTION 6.03. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by January 1,
1967, this Development Credit Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association, after consideration of the reasons for the
delay, establishes a later date for purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and
the Regie of such later date.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.07 and 4.08 of
this Agreement shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1970
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Banque de la Republique du Mali
Bamako
Mali
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Banketat
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿14
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 7.03. The Governor of the Banque de la Repu-
blique du Mali is designated for the purposes of Section
7.03 of the Regulations.
SECTION 7.04. The Borrower irrevocably designates the
Regie for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.03
of this Agreement and Article IV of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS   IIEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By s/ L. NEGRE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By s/ GEORGE D.WOODS
President


﻿15
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the Rehabilitation Program. The
purpose of the Project is to rehabilitate and modernize the
Railways, to improve their safety and increase their capac-
ity to meet higher levels of traffic and to permit them to
operate more efficiently, and to achieve and maintain a
sound financial position, taking into account the comple-
mentary nature of the Mali and Senegal railway systems.
The Project includes:
1. The relaying with 30 kg/m rails of approximately
57 km of the section between Kayes and the Senegal
border; the relaying of the Bamako-Koulikoro section
(approximately 57 km) with serviceable materials re-
covered from the Kayes-Senegal border section.
2. The acquisition and operation of 6 main-line loco-
motives, 3 shunting locomotives, 4 railcars, 10 trailers,
6 gangears, 6 passenger cars, 2 baggage vans and
about 107 freight cars; the construction of a workshop
and the acquisition of adequate workshop equipment;
the acquisition of components and spare parts for
rolling stock, track spares and maintenance equipment.
3. The renewal of telephone lines on the Diboli-Toukoto
(approximately 330 km) and Bamako-Koulikoro (ap-
proximately 57 km) sections.
4. The employment of consultants and technicians to
assist the Regie in improving its operations and
administration.


