Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13958-HIU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2966-HU)
FEBRUARY 9, 1995
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
Average Exchange Rates
(Forints per US$)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994 (June)
US$1.00= Ft.           50.41   59.07   63.21   74.74   78.99   91.93   102.73
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMEA                   Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EU                     European Union
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
LIB                    Limited International Bidding
LTP                    Long-Term Plan for Technology Development
MOI                    Ministry of Industry
MTA                    Hungarian Academy of Sciences
NBH                    National Bank of Hungary
OMFB                   National Committee of Technology Development
OMH                    Metrological Center (National Measures)
R&D                    Research and Development
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
TD                     Technology Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2966-HiU
CONTENTS
Preface ................................................  i
Evaluation Summary  ..................................... ii
PART 1. Project Implementation Assessment ............................... ... I
Project Objectives ..............             ...................... I
Evaluation of Objectives .......................................... 2
Achievement of Objectives ....................  3
Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................... 3
Project Sustainability ............................................ 4
Bank Performance .................... 4
Borrower Performance ........................................... 5
Assessment of Outcome ...................  5
Future Operation ............................................... 7
Key Lessons Learned ............................................ 8
PART II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .                                                          10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..11
Table 3: Project Timetable .                                                               I I
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .                     12
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .                                       12
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .                                                     13
Table 7A: Project Costs .                                                                  14
Table 7B: Project Financing .                                                              15
Table 8: Financial Rates of Retum for Commercial Sub-loans .                               16
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants .                                                       17
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .                                                   18
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions .                                                       18
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower's contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2966-HU1
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technology Development project in
Hungary, for which a loan of US$50 million equivalent was approved on June 21, 1988 and made
effective on August 25, 1988. In December 1993, US$10.0 million of the loan was cancelled at the
Government's request.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, the original closing date. Final disbursement took place on
July 12, 1994, at which time the remaining balance of US$2.95 million was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Rochelle Hilton, Central Europe, Country Operations Division, of the
Europe and Central Asia Region and reviewed by Michel Noel, Country Operations Division Chief, and
Jane Loos, Project Adviser. The borrower's comments are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, June 20-
23, 1994. It is based on material in the project file and from the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by carrying out its own evaluation of the
project's execution and initial preparation, as well as by commenting on the draft ICR. It also provided
completion reports for each of the subprojects financed under this loan.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ILoan 2966-HU]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.  Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focussed on supporting
the country's program of structural adjustment to make the economy more efficient, flexible, market
responsive and competitive in external markets. The Bank has been heavily involved in the industrial
sector and has provided assistance in formulating a medium-term sector strategy, as well as support
through nine lending operations. This included three previously approved lending operations which are
relevant to this project: the First and Second Industrial Restructuring Projects, which closed in June and
September 1993, respectively, and the Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan, which closed in June 1991, and
the subsequently approved Third Industrial Restructuring Project, which is ongoing.
Project Objectives
ii. Project Objectives. The project objectives were to: (i) strengthen the Research and Development
(R&D) infrastructure and increase its efficiency and applicability, especially in areas of computer
applications and software; (ii) improve technology in selected industries and develop activities which had
a strong chance of becoming intemationally competitive; and (iii) develop and strengthen the institutional
and financing mechanisms for Technology Development (TD) (para 2).
iii. Evaluation of Objectives. These objectives were broad and ambitious in that they covered the
provision of finance for technological activity by firms through the banking system, the access to foreign
technology and equipment, the upgrading of science and technology (S&T) infrastructure and improving
the linkages between this infrastructure and industrial enterprises, the improving of institutional and
enterprise skills in evaluating technology lending, and the training of enterprise managers in conducting
R&D in their firms. It also had a strategic element in that it sought to promote TD, in particular industrial
and infrastructural activities that were likely to have beneficial linkages to others and which would
contribute to the development of Hungary's comparative advantage in western markets. In addition, the
project tried to remedy the allocative shortcomings of the innovation system (paras 4-5). The larger issues
such as industrial policy, ownership, governance, skills and technology policies, which were constraints
on Hungarian TD, were beyond the scope of this project. Taking into account these constraints, the
project remained economically worthwhile and the commercial sub-projects had an estimated internal rate
of return of 25.4% (para 6).
iv. In early 1988, although socialism was under a strain and the demand for reform was growing, there
was no consensus that radical change was the only solution. In this environment, there was a strong case
for the strategy adopted by the project, to maximize the spread and learning benefits of technological
investments by focussing on support for computer-based technologies, which would have a market in the
West as well as in the CMEA countries. The computer-related industry played a critical role as a generic
technology. Mastery of this would have widespread benefits for the whole industrial sector as well as
improving research capabilities (para 8).



Implementation Experience and Results
v.  Achievement of Objectives and Sustainability. Although the project should be considered in light of
the economic and political environment as it existed at the time of conception and preparation, it was
overtaken by events shortly after coming into effect. The rapid and sweeping chatiges that occurred in
east and central Europe following the collapse of communism and the abrupt demise ot' the CMEA--
changes outside the Government's control--had major consequences on the development impact of the
project and the objectives were only partially achieved. The institutional development objective was
substantially achieved in that the National Office of Metrology (OMH) successfully upgraded its technical
capacity and its services close to the level of' the European ULnioni (EU). Furthermore, in the area of
quality control, the institutions supported by the project were able to substantially improve their
performance and have reached technical levels compatible with European standards (paras 9- 1 0).  The
achievement of the commercial investment component is, however, less positive. The depressed business
environment resulted in reduced R&D budgets for many enterprises, with the consequence that the demand
for financing TD-related investments dropped considerably and sub-projects were geared more towards
restructuring. In addition, most enterprises also had to compete with higher quality interilational products
on the domestic market, as well as to find alternative export markets, with mixed success. Although the
benefits and achievements of the metrology and quality control components are substantial, the
sustainability of the project overall is unlikely. Some of enterprises participating in the project are
experiencing financial difficulties and the Government is no longer pursuing a policy of'centrally directing
R&D/TD activities (para 12).
vi.  Major Factors Affecting the Project. The above factors and the sudden shift in Hlungary from
gradual reform of the socialist economic system to a market system altered dramatically the initial
parameters of the project. In the process of liberalization and marketization, H1ungary underwenit several
policy changes that would be considered wrenching in most economies. These changes necessarily had
major implications for TD in general and the provisions of the project in particular. The shift in the
policy framework for Hungarian industry effectively removed many of the earlier barriers to structural
change. It allowed the rapid exposure of industry to market competition, as well as labor and capital to
become mobile in line with market forces. It also opened the door to the entry of foreign capital, skills
and technology, and increased the likelihood of Hungary getting better access to westerni markets and high
technology. The change in ownership rules raised the possibility of exercising governance over industrial
enterprises and improving the quality and accountability of management (para 10).
vii. While these reforms were important, it also became evident that several other hurdles created by the
inherited structure of industry, enterprise technology and management needed to be tackled before TD
could respond satisfactorily to the new regime. These include the over-integration of enterprises, a need
to create new skills and upgrade existing ones; gaps in information and capital markets; weaknesses in the
technological infrastructure and innovative skills; and the lack of strategic and planning skills (para 11).
viii. Bank and BorrowerPerformance. Bank performance from identification through Board approval of
this project was highly satisfactory. The Bank team was well-rounded and included staff' and consultants
with the mix of skills needed to put together a project which was consistent with the (Government's
strategy and innovative in its approach to technology development. The project was thorougIlly prepared,
with the full participation of the Hungarian authorities. Project supervision was satisfactory overall but,
until 1991, it suffered somewhat from several regional reorganizations and a lack of continuity of staff
(paras. 13-16). The Government and the participating agencies remained fully committed to the project
from the beginning and were full partners in its appraisal. The borrower's performance has been highly
satisfactory from the outset. The staff of the National Committee of Technology Development (OMFB),



- ijj -
which was responsible for project implementation, were highly qualified and experienced. The role of
this Committee was critical throughout the life of the project and, largely as a result of its involvement,
the supervision effort by the Bank was minimized. Cooperation among the entities involved in the project,
particularly the OMFB, and the World Bank, has been excellent (paras 17-18).
ix. Costs, Financing and Timetable. In general, project funds have been utilized as planned but the
general economic difficulties, combined with the reforms, have taken a toll on the expected benefits from
the project. The project started briskly but disbursements remained about 50% behind appraisal estimates
as the demand for long-term investment financing dried up and/or enterprises cancelled part of their loans,
in response to market conditions. As a result, US$10 million (20% of the loan amount) was cancelled
in June 1993 and another US$2.95 million was cancelled when the loan closed in June 1994 (para 20).
as originally scheduled. The total project cost is estimated at US$75.4 million, compared to an appraisal
estimate of US$1 18.1 million.
x.   Assessment of Project Outcome. The outcome of the project has been mixed although overall it is
rated as unsatisfactory. The quality control and technical assistance components have had positive results.
The National Office of Metrology successfully enhanced its certification capabilities and the quality
control institutes are operating at levels compatible with European standards (para 24). The R&D
infrastructure! commercial investments, the main sub-component, were adversely affected by the changed
economic and political environment--the primary reason for the unsatisfactory rating (para 19).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xi. The project was surpassed by events soon after becoming effective. The environment in Hungary
no longer calls for this type of project. No specific plan has been prepared for the future operation of the
project: the continued viability or improved profitability of the enterprises receiving sub-loans would be
an indication of this (para 28).
xii. The main lessons learned from this project relate to the problems that became evident immediately
after the 1989 political change. These problems illustrate that much more sweeping reforms were needed
than were contemplated at the time. Hungarian industry, characterized by over-integrated enterprises,
restricted domestic and foreign competition, as well as a lack of managerial accountability and governance,
was not able to realize sustained export dynamism and productivity growth in the new environment. It
is therefore more desirable to address the overall policy constraints than to provide lines of credit to
inefficient industries that are viable primarily because of the protected or restricted markets in which they
operate. Focussing on high technology development was not sustainable when the computer industry was
opened up to competition on the world market.
xiii. The project also confirms the findings of other recently completed projects in Hungary (the First and
Second Industrial Restructuring Projects) to: (i) establish a universal line of credit for viable projects from
any sector instead of pursuing directed lines of credit; (ii) introduce more flexibility in Bank procedures
relating to sub-loan applications and procurement; and (iii) ensure that the banking system has the
accountability, capabilities and proper incentives to administer lines of credit. Another important issue
that should be considered for future Bank projects is to reduce the Bank's effort in pre-approving
(appraising) sub-projects. Relying more on the appraisal processes and capabilities of the financial
intermediaries would not only reduce Bank inputs but also help in the institutional development of the
financial institutions and increase their commitment to and ownership of the project (paras 29-3 1).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2966-HU1
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
NOTE:   In May 1993, the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) issued a report on selected Bank-
financed projects for industrial technology development.' The Technology Development
Project in Hungary was one of the case studies analyzed in some detail in this report. This
Completion Report draws heavily on the work carried out in the context of the OED report.
Project Identity
1.    Project Name:               Technology Development Project
Loan Number:               2966-HU
RVP Unit:                  ECA
Country:                   Hungary
Borrower:                  National Bank of Hungary
Sector:                    Industry
Date of Effectiveness      August 25, 1988
Loan Amount (original)     US$50 million
Loan Amount Cancelled      US$12.95 million
Project Objectives
2.    The objective of the project was to improve the capability of Hungarian industry to undertake and
sustain technology development (TD) necessary to meet the national objectives of increased productivity
and international competitiveness in the context of the Government's economic reform program. The
direct objectives of the project were to: (i) strengthen research and development (R&D) infrastructure,
especially in the areas of computer applications and software; (ii) improve production technology in
selected industries where it was likely to have a spread effect on other industries; (iii) increase the
efficiency and applicability of R&D by increasing the commercial orientation of R&D entities; (iv)
develop activities which had a strong chance of becoming internationally competitive and which, thereby
could save or earn convertible currency; and (v) develop and strengthen the institutional and financing
mechanisms for TD in Hungary. With regard to strengthening the institutional framework, the project
aimed to: (i) encourage and strengthen the role of the banking sector in identifying, appraising and
financing TD; and (ii) strengthen the ability of government institutions to assess, plan and execute TD
strategies.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project comprised the following components: (i) investment in
commercially oriented sub-projects through participating Hungarian Banks. These sub-projects were
grouped in three areas: R&D infrastructure, new industrial technology and computer software. Eight sub-
See OED report "Bank Lending for Industrial Technology Development -- Case Studies of Korea, India,
Indonesia, Mexico, Spain and Hungary," May 3, 1993.



- 2 -
projects were selected for pre-appraisal and additional sub-projects were to be financed through the line
of credit based on specified eligibility criteria; (ii) two pre-appraised investments in non-commercial,
government-owned entities which provided essential services to TD activities; and (iii) technical assistance
to train staff of enterprises, I-lungarian banks and government agencies, assist in appraisal of sub-projects.
and support preparation of the next medium-term plan for technology development.
Evaluation of Objectives
4.     The project's objectives were very broad in that they covered the provision of finance for
technological activity by firms through the banking system, the access to foreign technology and
equipment, the upgrading of science and technology infrastructure and improving the linkages between
this infrastructure and industrial enterprises, the improving of institutional and enterprise skills in
evaluating technology lending, and the training of enterprise managers in conducting R&D in their firms.
It also had a strategic element in that it sought to promote technology development, in particular industrial
and infrastructural activities that were likely to have beneficial linkages to others and which would
contribute to the development of Hungary's comparative advantage in western markets. These were
mainly computer-related activities, which were hampered by lack of modern equipment but were
considered to be of strategic significance to its continued technological development.
5.     These objectives were ambitious in attempting to address failures in a number of markets:
financial, technology and information (including infrastructure), and in the supporting institutions and
firm-specific skills related to technology appraisal and R&D. The project also tried to remedy the
allocative shortcomings of the innovation system, recognizing that R&D resources were being inefficiently
allocated and spread too thin, without sufficient targeting to ensure effectiveness of TD activities (Staff
Appraisal Report--SAR--para 2.10).
6.     The objectives were restricted in that they did not seek further reformns on such issues as industrial
policy, ownership, governance, skills and technology policies. While the SAR clearly identified these as
constraints on Hungarian TD, they were being monitored as an integral part of the Bank/Hungarian
authorities' dialogue on industrial restructuring and sector policy reform2 and their remedy was beyond
the objectives of this particular project. Taking into account these constraints, the project remained
economically worthwhile and the commercial sub-projects had an estimated internal rate of return of
25.4%. In addition, it was expected that the viability of the project would be enhanced by the ongoing
process of reform. Furthermore, the SAR (para 6.07) recognized that substantial externalities were also
expected for large segments of Hungarian industry as the enterprises and institutions concerned would
benefit in their technological activities and enjoy greater export eamings; their customers and suppliers
would also benefit.
7.     The focus of the narrower set of technology problems was well conceived and balanced within
the parameters of the project. They were drawn from an understanding of the TD process in the country
and from the practical needs of industry and technology institutions (and of the need to strengthen their
linkages).  They took account of institutional constraints (such as the weak ability of the financial
intermediaries to appraise and monitor technology loans) and attempted to remedy deficiencies. They tried
to meet the need of academic innovators by setting up an innovation park. The bulk of the loan (92%)
for "commercially oriented subprojects" (including some infrastructure) was justified as these investments
would yield fast and tangible results. High level training for R&D personnel, identified as a technological
need in the SAR, was not included to avoid overstretching the project.
2   Particularly in the context of the Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan HU-2965).



- 3 -
8.    In early 1988, although socialism was under a strain and the demand for reform was growing,
there was no consenlsus that radical change was the only solution. In this environment, there was a strong
case for the strategy adopted by the project, to maximize the spread and learning benefits of technological
investments by targeting for support (computer based) technologies, which would have a market in the
West as well as in the CMEA countries. Furthermore, the decision to concentrate resources on computer-
related areas vas based on its critical role as a generic technology, the mastery of which would benefit
practicallv the whole industrial sector as well as improving research capabilities in enterprises and
institutions. TIhe level of technological development already achieved, the size of the economy, the nature
of the technology learning process and the need for public support, were all considerations that influenced
this strategic view.
Achievement of Objectives
9.    In looking at the achievement of the objectives, the project should be considered in light of the
economic and political environmenit as it existed at the time of conception and preparation. However, the
project was overtaken by events--the rapid and sweeping changes that occurred in east and central Europe
following the collapse of communiism and the abrupt demise of the CMEA--shortly after coming into
effect. TIhese changes, which were outside the Government's control, had major consequences on the
development impact of the project and the objectives were only partially achieved. The institutional
developmenit objective was substantially achieved in that the National Office of Metrology (OMH)
successfully upgraded its technical capacity and its services close to the level of the European Union (EU).
Furtherniore, in the area of quality control, the institutions supported by the project were able to
substantially improve their technical performance and have reached acceptable European standards. On
the other hand, the depressed business environment resulted in reduced R&D budgets for many enterprises,
with the consequence that the demand for TD-related investments dropped substantially and commercial
investment sub-projects were geared more towards restructuring. In addition, most enterprises also had
to compete withi higher quality international products on the domestic market, and to find altemative
export markets, with mixed success. No specific performance objectives were quantified in the SAR for
the project as a w%hole. The expected commitment deadline and the rates of return of the commercial sub-
projects could be taken as indicators (paras 20 and 22).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.    The above major factors and the sudden shift in Hungary from gradual reform of the socialist
economic system to a market system with private ownership of the means of production, altered
dramatically the initial parameters of the technology project. While Hungary did not experience the "big
bang" of some of its neighbors, in the process of liberalization and marketization, it underwent several
policy changes that would be considered wrenching in most economies. These changes necessarily had
major implications for TD in general and the provisions of the project in particular.  The accumulated
effect of the changes, occurring as the project entered its implementation phase, was a "paradigm shift"
in the policy framework for Hungarian industry.3 The shift effectively removed many of the earlier
barriers to structural change, as it allowed the full and rapid exposure of industry to market competition
inside and outside the country, as well as labor and capital to become mobile in line with market forces.
It also opened the door to the entry of foreign capital, skills and technology, and increased the likelihood
of Hungary getting better access to western markets and high technology. The change in ownership rules
I OED 1992 study of Hungary, Appendix 3, p.24.



- 4 -
raised the possibility of exercising governance over industrial enterprises and improving the quality and
accountability of management.
11.    While these reforms were important, it also became evident that several other hurdles created by
the inherited structure of industry, enterprise technology and management needed to be tackled before TD
could respond satisfactorily to the new regime. These include the over-integration of enterprises; a
pressing need to create new skills and upgrade existing ones; gaps in information and capital markets,
making it difficult for foreign investors to evaluate the true value of most Hungarian enterprises;
weaknesses in the technological infrastructure and innovative skills; and the lack of strategic and planning
skills at the enterprise level, now that they were no longer controlled from the center. Furthermore, R&D
activities were carried out away from the enterprises and lacked commercial orientation.
Project Sustainability
12.    The sustainability of the project overall is unlikely because of the changed environment in which
it now exists. The benefits and achievements of the metrology and quality control components are sound.
The management of the various institutions is well qualified and effective and the respective agencies have
maintained a strong commitment to the project objectives, as they related to their components. On the
other hand, a number of the beneficiary enterprises are experiencing financial difficulty or have declared
bankruptcy, and the Government is no longer pursuing a policy of centrally directing R&D/TD activities.
Bank Performance
13.    The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was good.
The project was thoroughly prepared with the full cooperation of and extensive discussions with banks
and enterprises, as well as with the concerned government agencies. Considerable staff and consultants'
resources were devoted to fully evaluating eight identified sub-projects to confirm their financial,
economic and technical soundness. Each of these sub-projects had a strong economic justification and
was evaluated to have tangible and quickly realizable results. Furthermore, the selected investments were
expected to have a positive impact on industry as a whole. The non-commercial components were fully
justified for the benefits they would lead to for industry and for the Government. The Bank team was
well-rounded with the participation of an economist, financial specialist, industrial specialist, procurement
specialist and an industrial technology specialist, supported by consultants to appraise specific
sub-components for the computer and software industries. The project also benefitted from the continuity
of having the same team involved in the project from its inception through Board approval.
14.    The project was innovative in its broad approach to TD but recognized the systemic shortcomings
and did not attempt to resolve all problems in a single operation. It was consistent with the Government's
strategy, as it existed at that time, as expressed in Hungary's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). Industrial
restructuring, a primary objective of this Plan, was emphasized in the Bank's country strategy. The Bank,
following extensive discussions with the Government, contributed to defining the overall strategy and
medium-term framework for industrial restructuring, which combines support for reforms of the economic
management system and industrial sector policy with the policy for specific restructuring investments.
The project addressed the critical technological underpinning of the industrial policy reform program.
15.    The ability of the National Committee of Technology Development (OMFB), with support from
the National Bank of Hungary, was correctly assessed as extremely good for undertaking all aspects of
the project. This experience was taken into account in the project design, by vesting major responsibility



- 5 -
for supervision with the OMFB. OMFB was well qualified and had the capability to carry out this role
effectively and efficiently, thus minimizing the supervision effort from headquarters.
16.   The overall supervision effort was satisfactory although the project suffered from the departure
from the Bank of the task manager and a lack of continuity in staff, resulting from several reorganizations
of the department between 1989 and 1991. This period may have been critical for the project, because
of the wrenching changes that were taking place in the region. Between June 1988 and September 1991
only three formal supervision missions took place. Ongoing activities were, however, progressing well
and no special intervention was considered. Reporting improved after 1991 and the problems generated
by the adverse economic climate were clearly expressed. It was recognized that the project objectives had
been surpassed by events, but, by that time, the main activity was for sub-loans in commercial investments
and the project became more like other lines of credit in Hungary. To help overcome several procedural
issues that were impeding the utilization of the line of credit, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement by
increasing the amount of contracts for ICB, international shopping, etc., and by accepting commercial
practices for procurement. In spite of these changes, by mid-1993, it became obvious that there would
be no sudden increase in the demand for loan funds and that other lines of credit (including funds from
the ongoing Third Industrial Restructuring Project--Loan HU-3020) were available to provide for this if
needed. As a result, 20% of the loan funds were cancelled.
Borrower Performance
17.   The overall performance of the Borrower and the concerned government agencies was highly
satisfactory in all phases of the project cycle, as was compliance with all the main loan covenants. By
the time of these projects, NBH was familiar with the Bank's procurement and other procedures and had
developed an excellent monitoring system. The cooperation and exchange of information between NBH
and OMFB was excellent. The high quality and absorptive capacity of the Hungarian counterparts were
evident. Compliance with loan covenants was good and it was not necessary to exercise any remedies.
Furthermore, the borrower complied with Bank policies and procedures regarding procurement,
disbursements, accounting and reporting.
18.   The Government and the participating agencies remained strongly committed to the project and
were full partners in its appraisal. The project counterpart unit in OMFB became responsible for
monitoring project implementation and was headed by a highly qualified and experienced official who had
an excellent understanding of both Bank operations and the project content. OMFB's role was critical to
the project and was involved in all stages--from identification through completion. Throughout, this office
demonstrated its high commitment by its responsiveness to the commercial banks, the borrowing entities,
the NBH and to the World Bank. Cooperation has been excellent, as has been the working relationship
with the World Bank. Progress reports were prepared on time and were of a consistently high quality.
The close cooperation of Bank staff and OMFB has been maintained and there is no question that the
involvement of this Committee was instrumental in facilitating implementation of this operation.
Assessment of Outcome
19.   In general, project funds have been utilized as planned but the general economic difficulties,
combined with the reforms, have taken a toll on expected benefits, particularly with regard to the R&D
infrastructure/commercial investments, the main component. This is the primary reason that the overall
outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory and is unlikely to yield substantial development results,
although the technical assistance and quality control components have had a positive and tangible outcome.



- 6 -
20.    The project started briskly. By mid-1989, the implementation of many of the sub-components had
started. Sub-loan agreements had been signed for four preappraised sub-projects, including the three R&D
infrastructure investments (the special purpose printed circuit boards, the instrument rental and the
innovation park) and one sub-project to upgrade the capability for production of automated control
equipment for the manufacturing industry (Industrial Automation I--VILATI). Other sub-loans were at
different stages of negotiation with the designated commercial banks. In addition, procurement had already
started for the OMH and the Quality Control Institutes and applications from other industrial enterprises
for the proceeds of the line of credit were under consideration.   In spite of the promising start,
disbursements remained behind appraisal estimates (55% at June 1991), until the cancellation of $10
million in June 1993, by which time 92% of the reduced loan amount had been disbursed. An additional
$2.9 million was cancelled when the loan account was closed at end-June 1994, the original closing date.
21.    The economic crisis starting in 1990 with the collapse of the CMEA trade, the contraction of the
domestic market, delays in the payment between enterprises, import competition and the problems of the
financial sector, all affected the smooth implementation of the project. Many enterprise managers acted
logically in the new environment. Faced with serious financial difficulties, some cancelled all or part of
loans, sought to privatize and looked for foreign investment. On the other hand, industrial entities
possessing fairly good technologies, such as enterprises in the pharmaceutical industry, chose to meet the
new competitive environment with technology upgrading and intensified R&D efforts. As a result, only
three (industrial automation, printed circuit boards and instrument rental) of the original eight companies
preappraised by the Bank continued to participate in the project, due to the decline of the computer
industry in Hungary. Only a small amount of technical assistance took place for the innovation park as
this sub-loan was cancelled when it became evident that this investment would not be viable in the
changed environment. Ten other sub-projects were financed under the investment component, ranging
from investments for the development of a new generation of thermal switches to galvanizing, laser
application and pharmaceuticals.  Following the withdrawal of several preappraised sub-projects,
considerable effort was expended in 1989-91 to introduce new project-related activities, but these efforts
did not materialize. Furthermore, in the absence of an appropriate policy framework, it was not possible
to redesign the project at that time.
22.    Results of the 13 sub-projects (in 12 enterprises) implemented under the commercial investment
component4 have been mixed, with some projects vastly exceeding the originally estimated financial rates
of return and some enterprises having experienced insurmountable difficulties and being forced into
bankruptcy. Other companies, although surviving, face a questionable future. Six of the investments are
showing rates of return between about 18% and 60%. One enterprise has been taken over by a university
and is used as a training facility for professionals in high precision meastiring, two enterprises remain
in business but are experiencing serious financial difficulties and no rates of return are available. Four
enterprises have declared bankruptcy or are in liquidation. No overall rate of return has been calculated
for the project as a whole. The outcome of some of the major investments is summarized below.
23.    Although the Industrial Automation I (VILATI) sub-project was successfully completed and the
design laboratory fully operational, the company ran into financial problems due to the loss of its CMEA
markets and the weakness in its domestic markets. Despite much effort in restructuring, the company was
eventually forced to declare bankruptcy. The enterprise was taken over by the State Property Agency,
which is trying to sell off the assets, some of which have been used to establish joint ventures. In
contrast, the sub-project for improving the pharmaceutical tabletting plant (Alkaloida), the last investment
4      Excluding the innovation park which was cancelled with negligible disbursements.



- 7 -
to be completed, faces a very promising future with an estimated rate of return of over 50%. The
investment for the production of specialty printed circuit boards was completed but has been affected by
a serious loss of markets. At the time of completion of the sub-project, it was operating at less than 50%
capacity, because many of the scientific institutes and the majority shareholders, faced with economic and
financial difficulties, reneged on their original commitments to utilize the major part of the capacity.
However, increasing orders from the domestic market, as well as some export sales, could result in the
enterprise breaking even.
24.    All the sub-components dealing with the OMH and the Quality Control Institutes were
implemented as planned and have had positive results. The OMH is responsible for certification to ensure
uniformity and accuracy of measurements on a national and international level. Project support helped
this office import valuable measuring instruments and to upgrade its facilities. Its functioning was not
affected by the political upheavals and is able to operate at levels compatible with those of the EU.
25.    The technical assistance component included: (a) consulting contracts for a study on venture
capital and a study to develop the efficiency of the financing system and decision-making mechanism for
the allocation of central technology development funds; (b) training courses for the staff of commercial
banks and other governmental bodies; and (c) promotion and support for improved quality assurance
systems.
26.    Both studies were completed as planned. The venture capital study was widely circulated and
discussed and was instrumental in increasing the awareness and potential importance of this, hitherto
unknown, financial institution in Hungary. Consideration was also given to reallocating part of the loan
proceeds to finance venture capital operations. However, following extensive discussions, including
consultation with the IFC, it was decided that the private sector should be the primary source for this
activity. A modest number of venture capital funds have, in fact, now been established in Hungary and
they are slowly gaining momentum. The allocation of funds study was soon superseded by events as the
Government changed its innovation and technology policy and abolished the system of national and
sectoral R&D programs. The changed strategy was intended to allow R&D to respond to the emerging
needs of the market.
27.    An initial training program to upgrade the skills in the selection, formulation and execution of
technological R&D projects was well attended and has had lasting results in that it successfully convinced
the participants of the importance of evaluating market considerations in making R&D decisions.
Attempts to hold subsequent training programs for industrial enterprises and financial institutions were less
successful as these entities were preoccupied with the demands of the economic changes then occurring.
A strategy paper for the quality assurance system was also prepared. The technical assistance for quality
assurance was also highly successful. The participating institutes/companies were the first in Hungary to
receive certification of conformity with European standards for machine building companies (ISO 9000);
the number of products which could be certified has also increased. Since 1992, numerous other
companies are also operating quality assurance systems in conformity with ISO 9000.
Future Operation
28.   No follow up is recommended by the Bank. The project was surpassed by events soon after
becoming effective and the environment in Hungary no longer calls for this type of project. No specific
plan has been prepared for the future operation of the project. The continued viability or improved
profitability of the enterprises receiving sub-loans would be an indication of the future operation of the



- 8-
project. Taking into account the extensive analysis already carried out by OED on this project, a future
impact evaluation may not be necessary.
Key Lessons Learned
29.    The weaknesses of the overall reform program as it refers to the industry/enterprise sector were
identified and discussed in the Project Completion Report for the First and Second Industrial Restructuring
Projects (Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU), dated June 30, 1994, as well as in an OED report,5 and are not
repeated here. The problems that became evident immediately after the 1989 political change illustrate
that much more sweeping reforms were needed than were contemplated at the time. Hungarian industry,
characterized by over-integrated enterprises, restricted domestic and foreign competition, as well as a lack
of managerial accountability and governance, was not able to realize sustained export dynamism and
productivity growth in the new environment. It is therefore more desirable to address the overall policy
constraints than to provide lines of credit to inefficient industries that are viable primarily because of the
protected or restricted markets in which they operate. Focussing on high technology development was
not sustainable when the computer industry was opened up to competition on the world market.
30.    The project also confirms the findings of other recently completed projects in Hungary (the First
and Second Industrial Restructuring Projects) to: (i) establish a universal line of credit for viable projects
from any sector instead of pursuing directed lines of credit, i.e., allocating the bulk of the loan funds to
the computer industry in the case of this project; (ii) introduce more flexibility in Bank procedures relating
to sub-loan applications, and procurement, etc., assuming that participating banks' own procedures are
acceptable; and (iii) ensure that the banking system has the accountability, capabilities and proper
incentives to administer lines of credit, without which the banks, in a market economy, would be reluctant
to on-lend funds.
31.    Another important issue that should be considered for future Bank projects is to reduce the Bank's
effort in pre-approving (appraising) sub-projects. The Bank devoted considerable resources for the
complete appraisal of eight sub-projects for inclusion in this project, of which only three emerged as
eventual borrowers.  Relying more on the appraisal processes and capabilities of the financial
intermediaries would not only reduce Bank inputs but also help in the institutional development of the
financial institutions and increase their commitment to and ownership of the project.
5      OED report, "Hungary - Project/Program Performance Report - Industrial Export and Restructuring Project
(2397-HU) and Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (2965-HU)," dated June 19, 1992.



-9 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Studies Included in Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:   Bank Resources: Missions



- 10 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial     Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                      E              El            °l
Sector policies                      al                         El 0l
Financial objectives                E1             a                            E l
Institutional development                          El           E                El
Physical objectives                  a             E            El
Poverty reduction                                  E El         El 
Gender issues                       El             El           E
Other social objectives             E              El           El
Environmental objectives            E              El           EI
Public sector management            El             El           El
Private sector development          EL             El            E]               l
Other (specify)                     EL             El           E 
B. Project sustainability             Likely                Unlikely             Uncertain
l                      EE 
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                      E                                            El
Preparation assistance                                     El                    El
Appraisal                           E                                            El
Supervision                         El                     El1
D. Borrower performance         Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                                Eli                   El0
Implementation                        l                                          E l
Covenant compliance                                        E                     El
Operation (if applicable)                                  El                    El
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly IJnsatisfactory
l             El                            E l



- 11 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose               Year of Approval            Status
Preceding Operations
1. First Industrial     Support restructuring of             1986                 Completed
Restructuring Project    Hungarian industry to
increase intentional
competitiveness and potential
for exports.
2. Second Industrial     Support restructuring of             1987                Completed
Restructuring Project   Hungarian industry to
increase international
competitiveness and potential
for exports.
Following Operations
1. Industrial Sector    Policy-based loan to support         1988                 Completed
Adjustment Loan       Government's industrial
reform program
2. Third Industrial      Further support for industrial      1989                  Ongoing
Restructuring Project   policy reforms to restructure
the industrial sector and
improve its international
competitiveness.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                         Date planned             Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   August 5, 1989            August 5, 1987
Preparation                                  October 24, 1987          October 24, 1987
Appraisal                                    January 1988              January 11-27, 1988
Post-Appraisal                               March 13, 1988            March 13, 1988
Negotiations                                 May 1988                  May 1988
Board presentation                           June 28, 1988             June 21, 1988
Signing                                      July 1988                 July 1, 1988
Effectiveness                                September 1, 1988         August 25, 1988
Midterm review (if applicable)               n/a                       n/a
Project completion                           December 31, 1993         June 30, 1994
Loan closing                                 June 30, 1994             June 30, 1994



- 12 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal                   Actual As
IBRD Fiscal          Estimate         Actual   Percentage of
Year                (US$ millions)           Estimate
1989                8.00           5.07         63
1990               23.00           14.15        62
1991               36.00          19.62         55
1992               44.00          29.70         68
1993               47.00          36.85         77
1994               50.00          36.85         74
1995               50.00          37.05         74
Date of Final Disbursement: July 12, 1994
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                    Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. Targeted commitment deadline                September 1990         Final commitment March
1992. Uncommitted balance
subsequently cancelled.
2. Estimated average Financial Rate of          25.4%                 Not calculated for project
Return for commercial subprojects                                  overall.



- 13 -
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                               Purpose as defined at          Status        Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Resource allocation and   Analysis of current practices for   Completed    Negligible due to
decision making for       resource allocation of centrally    November   subsequent change in
centrally allocated TD    allocated TD funds and design and   1989         governnent policy to
funds.                    proposal of measures, actions to                 gear financing of
improve this system.                            R&D towards needs
of market economy
2. Development of venture    Analysis of existing situation and  Completed    Final report widely
capital functions in the  proposal of measures to strengthen               circulated. Venture
banking system.           venture capital functions in the                 capital operations
banking system.                                 started in 1990 and
are slowly gaining
momentum



- 14 -
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                    Actual
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Item                                 Local   Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total
Component I: Commercial Subprojects
1. R&D Infrastructure                  11.0     9.3       20.3           4.7      5.6       10.3
2. Industrial Technology               13.9    13.4       27.3          10.8       7.3      18.1
3. Software                             1.6     3.8         5.4           --       --        --
4. Line of Credit                      20.5    15.0        35.5         21.9      21.0      42.9
Subtotal Component 1                47.0    41.6        88.5         37.4      33.9      71.3
Component II: Non-Commercial Schemes
1. National Office of Metrology         0.8     1.1        1.8           0.3      1.1        1.4
2. Quality Control Institutes           2.4     2.0         4.4          0.7       1.9       2.6
Subtotal Component II                3.2     3.1         6.3          1.0       3.0       4.0
Component III:
1. Technical Assistance/Training        0.5     0.5        1.0           0.0      0.1        0.1
2. Total Base Cost                     50.7    45.1        95.8         38.4      37.0      75.4
3. Physical Contingencies               3.0     3.0         5.9           --       --        --
4. Price Contingencies                  2.3     1.9        4.2
Total with contingencies            55.9    50.0       105.9         38.4      37.0      75.4
5. Working Capital Requirements         5.3                5.3
6. Interest during Construction         6.9                6.9
Total Project Cost                  68.1    50.0       118.1         38.4      37.0      75.4



- 15 -
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                      Actual
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Source                                 Local   Foreign    TOt             Local    Forein      TotD
1. IBRD                                           50.0       50.0                     37.0       37.0
2. Cofinancing Institutions               --      --          --            --        --          --
3. Other external sources                 --      --          --            --        --          --
4. Domestic contribution                 68.1      --         68.1          38.4       --        38.4
Total                    68.1     _          118.1          38.4      37.0       75.4



- 16 -
Table 8: Financial Rates of Return for Commercial Sub-loans
Name of Enterprise                  Sub-project          Bsnk Sub-    Total Cost Planned   Actual
loan ($'000)   ($'000)   FRR (%) FRR (%)
e  HITELAP                        Printed circuit boards facility   3,415.4    6,256.8       24.5        a!
*  VILATI                         Automation I - product and        7,303.5   18,072.3       24.0        b/
technological reconstruction
*  Alkaloida Pharmaceuticals      Tabletting and packaging plant    7,965.9   19,279.5       39.9      63.6
*  MTA-MMSZ (Hungarian Acad. Instrument rental                      2,203.2    4,066.2       20.0        a/
of Science, Instruments &
Measuring Tech. Service)
*  EGIS Pharmaceuticals           Pharmacological Center            5,510.5   12,700.2       22.2      22.5
*  EGIS Pharmaceuticals           Pharmacokinetic laboratory          450.4      561.7       49.2    >60.0
extension
*  MOL Rt Refinery of Komarom  Steel barrel production              4,373.6    6,681.6       30.9      18.4
*  Ganz Switch & Appliance        Thermal switch development          539.5      675.0       22.5      23.3
Manufacture
*  Tungsram Lasertechnology Ltd  Laser job shop                       868.7    1,573.2       35.3        b/
*  Patent Ltd.                    Disaster rescue appliance and       267.5      976.4       41.0        b/
axial pump development
*  EGI (Institute of Energy       Laboratory Instruments               99.5      165.8       53.4        c/
Conservation)
*  SG Industrial Ltd.             Upgrading of metal accessories      427.6      684.2       30.7     31.4
for leather goods and clothing
*  Metallica Co. Ltd.             Autometalpress system               455.0    1,343.9       47.5        b/
(Femtechnika)
a/ FRR not available. HITELAP affected by serious loss of markets and operating at less than 50% capacity. Its future profitability
is in question. MTA-MMSZ has repaid its loans and no figures are available from the institute. Estimates indicate that the FRR
is negative.
b/ FRR not available because these enterprises have declared bankruptcy or are in liquidation.
c/ No FRR available as the facility taken over by a university and used for training in high precision measuring.



- 17 -
Table 9: Sltaus of Lgl Covenants
Overall Project Rating: 3
Agreement   Section    Covenant   Status   Otiginal      Description of Covenant                                          Comments
Type                Fulfillment
Date
LA           3 01(a)    M          C                     The Borrower declares its commitment to provide promptly as needed    Complied
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required ... and
conduct its operations and affairs under the Project in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with the Basic Law and Credit Policy
Guidelines
LA           3.01(b)    M          C                     For carrying out Part A of the Project, Borrower is to make available    Complied
to the Guarantor funds under Subsidiary Financing Agreements terms
and conditions approved by the Bank
LA           3.01(c)    M          C                     For carrying out Part B of the Project, Borrower is to make available    Complied
to the Eligible Banks funds under Subsidiary Financing Agreements
tenms and conditions approved by the Bank
LA           3.01(d)    M          C                     Borrower to coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the  Complied
Project, supervise the carrying out by the Participating Banks of their
obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements, and ensure
that the individual subloan limits and the aggregate loans to any one
enterprise shall not exceed the stipulated limits
LA           3.02      p           C                     Procurement to be govemed by Schedule 4 to the LA                Complied
LA           4.01(a)    F          C                     Borrower to maintain satisfactory records and accounts in accordance    Complied
with sound accounting practices
LA           4.01(b)    F          C                     Borrower to have records and accounts, including those for the   Complied
Special Account, audited ... not later than five months after the close
of the fiscal year
LA           4.01(c)    F          C                     Borrower to maintain appropriate records and accounts for all    Complied
expenditures for which withdrawals were made from the Special
Accounts and ensure that audit report contains a separate opinion by
the auditors
LA           4.02      F           C                     Borrower to maintain separate accounts for receipts of payments of  Complied
interest and principal under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
GA           3.02      M           C                     Guarantor to employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank for carrying    Complied
out Part A of the Project
GA           3.04      M           C                     Guarantor to perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan  Complied
Agreement
GA           4.01(a)    F          C                     Guarantor to maintain adequate records and accounts in accordance  Complied
with sound accounting practices in respect of expenditures related to
Part A of Project
GA           4.01(b)    F          C                     Guarantor to have such records and accounts for each fiscal year  Complied
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles not later
than five months after the end of the fiscal year
Covenant type:                                                                                Status:
M      Managerial                                                                             C  =  Complied with
F      Financial
T      Technical
P      Procurement



- 18 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                        Actual Weeks
Through appraisal                                    46.7
Appraisal - Board approval                           40.5
Board approval - Effectiveness                        --
Supervision                                          35.6
Completion                                            5.0
Total                                            127.8
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Days                         Performance Raktia t
Stage of Project cycle        MonthY    No. of    in    Specialization '  Implementation   Development   Types of
Year    Persons  Fietd                        Status        Objectives    Problems 3'
Through Appraisal:
Identification              9/87        4       54        E,N,O
Preparation                 10/87       3       33        E,F,O
Appraisal                      1/88        6       90      E,F,N,O,P
Appraisal - Board approval     3/88        6       42      E,F,N,O,P
Board approval - Effectiveness
Supervision:
1.                          5/89        1        5          F            not rated      not rated
2.                          7/90        4       17       F,E,P,O            2               2
3.                          9/91        2        8         F,O              2               2
4.                          3/92        1        5          F            not rated       not rated
5.                          6/92        1        4          F               2               2
6.                          10/92       1        4          F               2               2             F
7.                          5/93        1        4          F               3               3             F
Completion                     6/94        2        8         F,O
Total                                             274
I - Specialization                          2 - Performance Rating               3 - Ty[es of Problems
E = Economist                                1 = Minor problems                   F =  Financial
F = Financial Analyst                       2 = Moderate Problems                 T = Technical
0 = Other                                   3 = Major Problems                    M = Managerial
N = Industry Socialist
P = Procurement



- 19 -
APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A mission visited Hungary from June 20-23, 1994, to discuss and agree with the borrower and
implementing agency views on project implementation and the steps to be taken in preparing the
Implementation Completion Report for this project. The mission met with representatives of the National
Bank of Hungary (NBH), Office of Technology Development (OMFB) and commercial banks, and would
like to thank the various officials for the assistance provided.  This aide-memoire is subject to
confirmation of the management of the World Bank.
2.     The project will be closed by June 30, 1994, by which time the final withdrawal applications are
expected to be submitted to the Bank. It is expected that about $3 million will remain in the account after
the final withdrawal has been made and will have to be cancelled. The mission discussed with NBH and
OMFB the content of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be produced by end-1994,
following completion of the project, with regard to both the data to be submitted by the Borrower to the
Bank for the preparation of the Bank's contribution to the ICR, and to their own contribution. It was
agreed that OMFB, the implementing agency, will be responsible for preparing this with support from
NBH.
3.    As appraised, the project comprised two major components:  an infrastructure component
designed to strengthen the institutions responsible in Hungary for technology development and quality
control (technology infrastructure component); and a line of credit for technology investments in approved
subprojects.
4.    All project activities have now been completed, except for the one subproject - a line of credit
through CB for Alkaloida to upgrade its pharmaceutical processing and packaging plant. The mission
visited this enterprise and was pleased to observe that all major works in regard to this investment have
now been completed and that installation and testing of equipment is underway, in the expectation that
the plant will reach full capacity by end-1994.
5.    Completion reports have been sent to the Bank for all other subprojects, except for the Innotech
project to establish an innovation park. No report was made for this operation as it was subsequently
cancelled, with no withdrawals from the loan, apart from some small expenditures--primarily to visit
similar developments in other countries.
6.     To ensure that sufficient data is available to prepare the ICR, NBH and OMFB will send to the
Bank by early September:
(i)    key data on the use of the World Bank loan, including a list of subprojects with subloan
amounts, total disbursements by subloan, purpose of subloan and name of intermediary
bank (to be provided by NBH)



- 20 -
APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 3
(ii)    a completion report for the Alkaloida subloan, including financial rate of return
projections, using 1993 results as the base (to be prepared by the intermediary bank for
OMFB).
(iii)   updated financial rates of return for other subprojects, where this is possible (see para 7)
(to be requested from the intermediary banks by OMFB).
(iv)   A short summary of the recommendations and follow up of the project-financed technical
assistance, including studies (venture capital and resource allocation of central TD funds)
and training.
7.     The completion reports for individual subprojects were prepared by the intermediary banks.
Some of the borrowing enterprises have subsequently declared bankruptcy and/or gone into liquidation,
casualties of the 1990-93 recession, and especially the loss of markets following the collapse of the
CMEA. For other enterprises, the economic environment has also had a major impact, in some cases
dramatically reducing the actual rates of return achieved following implementation of the various
investments. However, OMFB will ask the intermediary banks to recalculate the rates of return for the
ongoing operations for its clients. In the cases where the final beneficiary is no longer a client of the
lending institution (e.g., MTA-MMSZ, which has already repaid its loan), OMFB will try to obtain this
information directly from the enterprise. The methodology to be used in calculating these rates was
explained to OMFB and documents describing this procedure provided. Furthermore, it was proposed
that contact could be made with Econoconsult, which has carried out a similar analysis for the recently
completed Project Completion Report for IRP I and II.
8.     The major factor affecting project implementation was the adverse economic environment. The
project was approved in mid-1988. At that time, the rapid and complete demise of the CMEA, and the
decline of domestic markets could not have been predicted. Nor could the serious and long-lasting 1990-
93 world recession have been foreseen. Evaluating project performance under these circumstances is a
difficult task. While the Bank, borrower and implementing agency all agreed that the investment
component of the project could not be classified as a total success, it was, from a purely project point
of view, well implemented, a fact that was concealed by the apparent poor performance of many of the
enterprises.  The "technology infrastructure improvement" component was well carried out and was
appropriate. Investments under this component included upgrading equipment and instruments for the
various institutions involved in metrology and quality control, as well as supporting academic research
institutions.
9.     Taking the above situation into account, it was agreed that the contribution to be provided by
OMFB would look at implementation of the project overall, rather than going into an examination of the
individual subprojects. It would comment specifically on the technology infrastructure component, the
investment subprojects and technical assistance (studies and training).



- 21 -
APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 3
10.   Timetable: The following program was agreed for the preparation of the ICR:
*     Basic data, updated rates of return and company data to WB   early Sept
(responsible NBH/OMFB)
*     Draft report to OMFB for comment (responsible WB)            early/mid-Oct
*     Receipt of borrower contribution and any comments            early/mid-Nov
(responsible NBH/OMFB)
*     Final draft report                                           end-Nov
Rochelle Hilton
for the World Bank
Budapest
June 23, 1994



- 22 -
APPENDIX B
Page I of 6
Technology Development Project 2966-HU
COMMENTS
on the Implementation Completion Report
Prepared by the National Committee for Technology Development
1. The National Committee for Technology Development (OMFB) has been
involved in the Technology Development Project since its inception, monitoring
and, for Part A of the project, managing implementation, in its capacity as
counterpart agency elected by the Govemment. The experiences of OMFB
concur with, and virtually fully support, the views and conclusions spelled out in
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). It is felt, however, that some issues
deserve further elucidation.
2. The ICR correctly stresses and highlights the impact of the sweeping changes of
the political system and economic environment which started to unfold just at the
time when the project was about to take off the ground. Although even at that
time the need for profound reform was in effect perceived, the full extent and
pace of these radical changes have not, and in fact could not, be foreseen when
the project was conceived. Thus, the project was designed to be compatible with
the economic and industrial policy framework prevailing in 1988. This approach,
though justified at that time, soon became inconsistent with the new challenges
experienced by market players.
3. The fact that only three, out of the initially appraised eight, sub-projects were
actually implemented, sufficiently demonstrates the impact of these changes.
Nevertheless, cancellation of pre-appraised sub-projects may be regarded as a
"blessing in disguise' proving the prudent and sound attitude of the
managements of entities concemed, who soon perceived the dangers of sticking



- 23 -                     APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 6
to the earlier concept in the changed environment. Particularly affected were the
sub-projects focussing on computer technology. They were designed to take into
account the CoCom restrictions which were still in force but were soon abolished.
Their abolishment though evidently desirable and beneficial in the long run, had
the immediate effect of exposing the emerging Hungarian software industry to
the thrust of intemational competition. These sub-projects though viable and
economically justified at the time of project preparation, were probably doomed
to failure like the three actually implemented, yet unsuited to yield the expected
results and return under the radically different circumstances.
4. Cancellations resulted in almost doubling the loan available for the line of credit
component. (The three sub-projects absorbed only about $ 12 million compared
vith the original allocation of $ 30 million for the eight pre-appraised sub-
projects.) Efforts to make up for this difference were only partly successful: while
demand for investment loan slackened, the project was virtually "competing' with
other World Bank loans and was at disadvantage inasmuch as eligibility criteria
were more rigorous and did not allow for example financing of working capital.
5. As stated in the ICR, the outcome of the commercially oriented investment
sub-projects was mixed. While implementation from a purely technical point of
view was fully satisfactory even in the case of high technology sub-projects, such
as PCB production, design and production of sophisticated control equipment or
laser technology, marketing and financial management proved to be inadequate
in a number of sub-projects and, failures in these areas cannot be fully
subscribed to the sudden, unexpected changes in the environment. It has to be
stressed however, that sub-projects which absorbed more than 80 % of the line
of credit and, in particular the larger ones in the pharmaceutical industry, seem to
be very successful and promising.



- 24 -                    APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 6
6. Although having absorbed only a minor portion of the loan, results achieved in
Part A of the project are highly reassuring. This is particularly true for Metrology
Development (OMH) and Quality Control Institutes components, but also for the
sub-project subsequently included in the project and implemented at the
Budapest Technical University (BME) for up-grading telecom research and
education infrastructure. The support provided for in these components enabled
participating entities to face the challenges of the transition period and gave them
a fair chance of reaching a technical level compatible with European standards.
7. It would be reasonable to ask why in the light of the radical changes no attempt
has been undertaken to redesign the project and make it responsive to the new
requirements. For example one possibility would have been to reallocate
resources and focus on strengthening the R+D infrastructure. This suggestion, in
fact, was investigated, though first on a modest scale and although it received
sympathetic consideration from the Bank, it turned out not to be feasible at that
point in time.
A number of other options supposed to improve performance, such as linking the
loan to other available resources, the establishment of venture capital funds, as
mentioned in the ICR, etc. were also thoroughly pursued in co-operation with the
Bank staff, but to no avail. Substantial readjustment of the project's scope was
essentially impossible because in the course of the rapid transition process,
particularly in 1990-92, there was no stable TD policy background available to
serve as a benchmark for such readjustment and by 1993, when prerequisites
and conditions may have existed already, implementation was too advanced to
allow it.
8. In all stages cooperation with the Bank was excellent. Bank staff charged with
project identification, appaisal and later implementation albeit adopting a



- 25 -                      APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 6
sufficiently critical approach, showed an outstanding ability to grasp and
understand the constraints and limitations implied by the specific nature of the
transition process and of the TD policy resp. Its advice was time and again
instrumental in managing project operations and at all times throughout the
implementation, its professional competence, readiness to help and flexible
attitude largely contributed to overcoming the difficulties and obstacles which
arose.
9. Summinaq up: The Bank loan provided substantial additional resources in a period
when funds for TD were becaming tighter and tighter. Performance and success
mainly depended on how quickly, and to what extent, the actors in the project
were able to recognize and adapt themselves to the challenges of the sweeping
changes in the transient economy. The dialogue with the Bank staff was very
helpful in clarifying important issues such as the role of venture capital, the
efficiency of the allocation system, etc. which have been fundamental in
formulating TD policy.



- 26 -
APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 6
10. THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
THE BANK's PERFORMANCE
(Prepared by the National Bank of Hungary)
On the basis of the Loan Agreement entered into between the
World Bank and the National Bank of Hungary ( hereinafter:
NBH), NBH concluded subsidiary financing agreements with the
financial institutions participating in the Project and
subsidiary loan agreement with the Ministry of Finance.
NBH entirely fulfilled its obligations under the above
referred Loan Agreement.
NBH  monitored   -  inter   alia-  project   implementation,
financial   and   lending   performance   of   participating
commercial banks under the Project and provided the Bank -
in  cooperation  with  OMFB  -  with  timely  and   adequate
information on such project related activities.
During project implementation major changes occured in the
Hungarian political system and economic environment which
affected adversely the utilization of loan proceeds and the
implementation of the credit line component. The influence
of these changes to the commercially oriented investment
sub-projects was adequately tackled in the report prepared
by the Coordination Office, OMFB. The increase in interest
rates  and  the  competing  other  World  Bank  loans   have
strengthened the negative impact of these changes on loan
utilization.
These  serious  changes   in  the  economy   could  not   be
counterbalanced by the mutual efforts of the Bank and the



- 27 -
APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 6
Hungarian counterpart (see Section 7) to speed up the
utilization of credit line. Therefore in 1993 NBH with the
agreement of the OMFB and the participating commercial banks
officially requested the cancellation of USD 10 million and
an additional USD 2.9 million was cancelled when the loan
account was closed at the end of June 1994.
The relationship  between  the  Bank , OMFB  and   NBH  was
excellent throughout the preparation and implementation of
the Project. The Bank's performance in the appraisal,
implementation  and   supervision   phases  was   good   and
effective. The Hungarian institutions received valuable
assistance from the Bank staff. Their advice and flexible
attitude largely contributed to solve the problems during
the project implementation.



