Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2966 HU
                 (Technology Development Project)
                              between
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 1, 1988
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  July  1,  1988,  between HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor  and  the  National Bank of Hungary
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, have requested the Bank  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank  has  agreed to extend to the Bor-
rower a loan  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations  of  the  Borrower in respect of such
loan and to undertake such  other  obligations as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  the  Guarantor,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
Page  2
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  Loan  Agreement  and in the General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of  the  Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of  the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor speci-
fically undertakes, whenever there  is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available  to  the  Borrower  will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures  required  for the carrying out of
the Project,  to  make  arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or  cause the Borrower to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                Execution of Part A of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall  carry  out and cause to be
carried out Part A  of  the  Project  with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in  conformity  with  appropriate  practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
     Section 3.02. In order to  assist  in  carrying out Part A of
the Project, the Guarantor  shall employ consultants with qualifi-
cations, experience and  terms  of  reference  satisfactory to the
Bank.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Part A of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall  duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor  shall  not take or concur in
any action which would  have  the  effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Page  3
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07  and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services,  plans   and   schedules,   records   and   reports  and
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part  A  of  the Project of the depart-
ments, agencies and  institutes  of  the Guarantor responsible for
the carrying out thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of said
               accounts for such year  as  so audited, and (B) the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     Section  4.02.  In  order  to  facilitate  carrying  out  the
Project, the Guarantor shall maintain  the Project Unit with staff
and other resources  and  terms  of  reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The Deputy Chairman of the Guarantor's National
Planning Office, the Deputy  Minister  of Trade of the Guarantor's
Ministry of Trade  or  the  Managing  Director  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BANKO                          227267 SMAFU-H
               Budapest                       225755 BANKO-H or
                                              227028 BANKO-H
For the Bank
Page  4
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                     By /s/ Miklos Pulai
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
