Page  1
CONFORMED COPY   
CREDIT NUMBER 3006-SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development and Decentralization Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 29, 1997 
CREDIT NUMBER 3006-SE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 29, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter in October 1996, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to facilitate the 
Borrower’s decentralization process and to strengthen the role for municipalities in 
the territory of the Borrower (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program; 
(C)
Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by the Municipal 
Development Agency (MDA) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to MDA part of the proceeds of the Credit 
as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Agence d’Exécution des 
Travaux d’Intérêts Public Contre le Sous-Emploi (AGETIP) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to AGETIP 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association 
and AGETIP and the Association and MDA respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in 
the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Association or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, 
if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited 
by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall 
have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a 
continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Association 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that 
an amount of the 
Credit will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
or (c) at any time, the Association 
determines, with respect to 
any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without 
the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount 
of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, 
the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Credit 
shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“AGETIP” means Agence d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêts Public Contre le 
Sous-Emploi, a public works executing entity established in accordance with Law No. 
66-70 of the Borrower, dated July 13, 1966; 
(b)
"AGETIP Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and AGETIP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
Page  3
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the AGETIP Project 
Agreement; 
(c)
"AGETIP Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and AGETIP pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
AGETIP Subsidiary Agreement;  
(d)
“AGETIP Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by AGETIP containing, 
inter alia, work and training program, terms and conditions and eligibility criteria 
for Rural Sub-Projects  (as hereinafter defined), operating procedures of AGETIP, and 
other procedures and guidelines to be used for the purposes of implementation of Part 
D of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of 
the Association, and such terms include all schedules to the AGETIP Procedures Manual;
(e)
“CCC” means Compte de Crédit Communal, Borrower’s Municipal Development 
Fund;
(f)
“CMA” means any contract management agency;
(g)
“Convention MDA-AGETIP” means the agreement entered into between MDA (as 
hereinafter defined) and AGETIP, pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, for 
the purpose of carrying out selected activities under Part A of the Project, by 
AGETIP, on behalf of MDA;
(h)
“Eligible Municipality” means a municipality selected by the Borrower on 
the basis of criteria specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i)
“FCFA” means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency of 
the Borrower; 
(j)
“FECL” means Fonds d’Equipement des Collectivités Locales, a fund 
established by the Borrower on July 4, 1977, for the purpose of providing interest 
free loans or grants to carry out municipal projects; 
(k)
“First Project Year” means  the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter and “Project Year” or “PY” means 
any twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year or the end of 
subsequent Project Years;  
(l)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited into the 
Project Account referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;  
(m)
“MDA Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement;  
(n)
“MDA” means Municipal Development Agency, established on July 8, 1997 
under the laws of the Borrower; 
(o)
“MDA Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
MDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the MDA Project Agreement; 
(p)
“MDA Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and MDA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the MDA 
Subsidiary Agreement; 
(q)
“MAP” means a municipal adjustment program designed by, or for the 
benefit of, an Eligible Municipality containing, inter alia, the financial and 
technical measures to develop the financial and organizational capacity of such 
Eligible Municipality; 
(r)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(s)
“Municipal Contract” means the contract between an Eligible Municipality 
and MDA for the purpose of carrying out a MAP and a PIP (as hereinafter defined);  
Page  4
(t)
“Municipal Sub-Project” means a specific development activity or 
activities included in the PIP financed, or proposed to be financed, under Part A of 
the Project; 
(u)
“Municipal Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant made or proposed to be made to 
finance a PIP; 
(v)
“Municipal Sub-Loan” means a sub-loan made or proposed to be made to 
finance a PIP; 
(w)
“MDA Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower 
containing, inter alia, work and training program, terms and conditions and 
eligibility criteria for Municipal Sub-Projects, model Municipal Contracts, operating 
procedures of MDA, and other procedures and guidelines to be used for the purposes of 
implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the approval of the Association, and such terms include any 
schedules to the MDA Procedures Manual;
(x)
“Performance Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
(y)
“PIP” means a priority investment program designed by, or for the benefit 
of, an Eligible Municipality; 
(z)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letter dated 
September 17, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(aa)
“Rural Community” means the rural areas as defined by the Borrower’s Law 
96-06, dated March 22, 1996; 
(bb)
“Rural Community Authority” means any rural council, formed in accordance 
with the Borrower’s Law 96-06, dated March 22, 1996; 
(cc)
“Rural Sub-Project” means a specific development activity or activities 
financed, or proposed to be financed, under Part D of the Project; 
(dd)
“Rural Sub-Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a 
Rural Sub-Project; and 
(ee)
“Special Account” means any of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) and (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty five million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 55,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
open and maintain in FCFA a special deposit account (MDA Special Account), and for the 
purposes of Part D of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA a special deposit account 
(AGETIP Special Account), both in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, each of the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
May 1 and November 1  commencing May 1, 2008 and ending November 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal;
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  6
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause:  
(i)
MDA to carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
technical 
practices, and shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable MDA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(ii)
AGETIP to carry out Part D of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
technical 
practices, and shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable AGETIP to perform such 
obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MDA (the MDA 
Subsidiary Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Association, transfer the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3), (4)(a) and (b) and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to MDA as a grant. 
(c)
For the purposes of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall under a 
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AGETIP (the AGETIP 
Subsidiary Agreement) and on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Association, transfer the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1)(b), 2(b), (4)(c) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement to AGETIP as a grant. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the MDA Subsidiary Agreement 
and the AGETIP Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the MDA Subsidiary Agreement and the AGETIP Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof; and
(e) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause MDA and AGETIP to carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project 
respectively in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  7
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively): (i) in respect of Parts A, B 
and C of the Project shall be carried out by MDA pursuant to Section 2.04 of the MDA 
Project Agreement; and (ii) in respect of Part D of the Project shall be carried out 
by AGETIP pursuant to Section 2.04 of the AGETIP Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01, the 
Borrower shall: 
(i)
open and maintain until the completion of the Project, an 
account in the name of MDA (the MDA Account) in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms  
and 
conditions acceptable to the Association;  
(ii)
deposit into the MDA Account an initial amount of 
400,000,000 FCFA (the Initial Deposit);  
(iii)
not later than July 31, 1998, deposit into the MDA Account, 
an additional amount of 600,000,000 FCFA; and  
(iv)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the MDA Account 
shall be used exclusively for the purposes of defraying the 
cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of Parts A, 
B, and 
C of the Project, and not otherwise financed out of 
the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower shall allocate and make available to MDA, each year, an 
amount equivalent to 1,000,000,000 FCFA, the Borrower’s annual counterpart 
contribution for the purpose of Parts A, B, and C of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall allocate and make available to AGETIP, each 
year, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, an amount equivalent to 
200,000,000 FCFA, the Borrower’s annual counterpart contribution for the purpose of 
Part D of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause MDA and AGETIP to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts  A, B and C 
and D of the Project respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause MDA and AGETIP respectively to: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Accounts 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
Page  8
to the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b)
MDA or AGETIP shall have failed to perform any of their obligations under 
the MDA Project Agreement or AGETIP Project Agreement; 
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Credit 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that MDA or AGETIP will be able to perform their obligations under the MDA Project 
Agreement or the AGETIP Project Agreement; 
(d)
the Statutes of MDA or AGETIP shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations 
or financial condition of MDA or AGETIP or their ability to carry out the Project or 
the ability of MDA or AGETIP to perform any of their obligations under the MDA Project 
Agreement or the AGETIP Project Agreement; and
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of MDA or AGETIP or for the 
suspension of  their operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Page  9
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any of  the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of Association within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the MDA Procedures Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the AGETIP Procedures Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(c)
the MDA Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and MDA; 
(d) 
the AGETIP Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and AGETIP; 
(e)
the Convention MDA-AGETIP, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, has been entered into between MDA-AGETIP; 
(f)
the Borrower has made the Initial Deposit into the Project Account;
(g)
the Borrower has: (i) closed the CCC account; (ii) notified the 
Association as to the remaining balance; and (iii) allocated said balance for the 
financing of expenditures under Parts A, B, and C of the Project; 
(h)
MDA has entered into at least three Municipal Contracts with Eligible 
Municipalities; 
(i)
the Borrower has, for the purpose of the Project, established a financial 
management and accounting system acceptable to the Association; and  
(j)
for the purposes of Article IV of this Agreement, the Borrower has 
appointed an auditor, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement;
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the MDA Subsidiary Agreement and the AGETIP Subsidiary Agreement 
have been duly entered into; 
(b)
that the MDA Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
MDA and is legally binding upon MDA in accordance with its terms; and 
(c)
that the AGETIP Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
AGETIP and is legally binding upon AGETIP in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
Page  10
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Rue Charles Lainé
P. O. Box 4017
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Cable address: 
Telex:
Minifinances
3203 G
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  11
(1)
Civil works
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a)
For Municipal
23,000,000
Sub-Projects
(b)
For Rural 
 7,500,000
Sub-Projects
(2)
Consultants’ services,
100%
including audit
(a)
For Municipal
 6,600,000
Sub-Projects
(b)
For Rural 
   800,000
Sub-Projects
(3)
Training
 1,800,000
100%
(4)
Goods and
100% of foreign
equipment
expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures 
(a)
For Municipal
 3,700,000
Sub-Projects
(b)
For Parts B
 1,500,000
and C 
of the Project
(c)
For Rural
 1,100,000
Sub-Projects
(5)
Incremental
 2,400,000
100% for PY1
operating costs
through PY4
(Under Part C
and 80%
of the Project
thereafter
(6)
Management fees
 
   600,000
100%
for AGETIP
(In connection
with Part D
of the Project)
(7)
Refunding of
 1,100,000
Amount due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
 5,100,000
 _________
TOTAL
55,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
Page  12
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by MDA on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) works and goods under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms, under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual 
consultants, under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: to (i) improve the financial and 
organizational management of Eligible Municipalities; (ii) improve the programming of 
priority urban investments; (iii) rationalize and simplify the financing of urban 
infrastructure-related investments; and (iv) rehabilitate and upgrade the basic 
infrastructure in the Rural Communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Municipal Physical Investment
1.
Carrying out of sub-projects, in Eligible Municipalities, consisting, inter 
alia, of construction, rehabilitation or maintenance of: (i) public infrastructure, 
including roads, drainage, water banks, waste water connections, and lighting; (ii) 
educational, health and social and cultural facilities, including schools, health 
centers and sports centers; (iii) administrative facilities, including mayoral offices 
and other governmental buildings; (iv) revenue generating facilities, including market 
places and bus-stations; (v) environmental protection facilities, including on-site 
sanitation and solid waste management stations; and (vi) historic monuments.
2.
Acquisition of equipment to support the sub-projects referred to in paragraph 1 
above.
Part B:
Institutional Development 
1.
Creation of an enabling environment for the identification and financing of 
priority municipal programs through the provision of technical advisory services to 
Eligible Municipalities.
2.
Strengthening the institutional capacities of Eligible Municipalities to 
effectively undertake the appraisal of least cost and most efficient investments in 
urban services and infrastructure and preparation of MAPs and PIPs, including the 
acquisition of vehicles and equipment.  
3.
Completion of urban, financial and organizational audits of Eligible 
Municipalities and thereafter provision of technical advisory services in the 
preparation of Municipal Contracts.
4.
Strengthening the institutional capacities for urban management of the Eligible 
Municipalities and the Borrower’s central departments through support and training.
Page  13
5.
Carrying out of studies to assist in the improvement of the Borrower’s policy 
framework for improving mobilization as well as transfer of local resources from the 
central to the local authorities.
6.
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment for the purpose of carrying out the 
activities referred to in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this Part B.
Part C:
Administration and Monitoring 
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MDA in implementing the municipal 
development programs.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the 
operation of MDA and for its program coordination and monitoring, and the 
implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project. 
3.
Acquisition of office equipment for the benefit of MDA.
Part D:
Physical Investment in Rural Communities
1.
Carrying out of sub-projects in Rural Communities, consisting, inter alia of 
construction, rehabilitation or maintenance of: (i) public infrastructure, including 
roads, drainage, water supply and sanitation and lighting; (ii) educational, health 
and social and cultural facilities, including schools, health centers and sports 
centers; (iii) administrative facilities; (iv) revenue generating facilities, 
including market places; and (v) environmental protection facilities, including 
on-site sanitation and solid waste management stations.
2.
Acquisition of equipment to support the sub-projects referred to in paragraph 1 
above.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  14
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $44,440,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,700,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Office supplies estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works.
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  15
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for architectural and engineering services, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants .
1.
Least-cost Selection 
Services for audits under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2. Single-Source 
Selection
Services for contracts administration under Part D of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for lectures and studies under Part B of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 200,000 or more each, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of  consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 each, and each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
Page  16
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Parts A, B and C of the Project
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying out Parts A, B and 
C of the Project, MDA shall apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the MDA 
Procedures Manual and shall not amend such MDA Procedures Manual or waive any 
provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Eligibility Criteria for Municipalities
2.
Without limitation upon the criteria specified in the MDA Procedures Manual, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, a municipality, prior to 
certification to receive financing, shall have:
(a)
submitted a request (dossier de candidature) to MDA;
(b)
completed an urban audit to prepare  a PIP;
(c)
completed a financial and organizational audit to determine the financial 
capacity of the municipality and the content of its MAP;
(d)
identified the PIP and the MAP consistent with the procedures and 
guidelines described in the MDA Procedures Manual, including the environment-related 
procedures and guidelines;
(e)
evaluated and made arrangements for the timely availability of the 
contribution of the Eligible Municipality, in accordance with the guidelines specified 
in the MDA Procedures Manual; and 
(f)
signed a Municipal Contract.
Eligibility of PIPs
3.
Without limitation upon the criteria specified in the MDA Procedures Manual, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no PIPs shall be eligible for 
financing unless MDA has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the MDA Procedures Manual, that  all the 
Municipal Sub-Project included in the PIP satisfies the eligibility criteria specified 
below and in more detail in the MDA Procedures Manual, which shall include, inter 
alia, the following: 
(a)
the Municipal Sub-Project is consistent with the municipal priorities as 
defined in the urban audit;
(b)
the Municipal Sub-Project is compatible with the financial capacity of 
the Eligible Municipality;
(c) 
if applicable, the Municipal  Sub-Project provides for the contribution 
of the Eligible Municipality, in accordance with  criteria specified in the MDA 
Procedures Manual;
(d)
the Municipal Sub-Project is environmentally sound and socially 
sustainable; and 
Page  17
(e) 
in the case of Municipal Sub-Projects  involving involuntary resettlement 
of population, an action plan for the resettlement of the affected population, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been agreed upon.
Terms and Conditions for the carrying out of the Municipal Sub-Projects 
included in the PIP:
4.
Municipal Sub-Projects shall be carried out pursuant to Municipal Contracts to 
be concluded between MDA and Eligible Municipalities, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Eligible Municipality to carry out the Municipal 
Sub-Project in accordance with the MDA Procedures Manual, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and 
management standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
Municipal Sub-Projects;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Municipal Sub-Grant or Municipal Sub-Loan shall be procured 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the 
MDA Procedures Manual; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Municipal Sub-Projects;
(c)
provisions regarding the disbursement of the Sub-Loans and Sub-Grants to 
be made in accordance with the MDA Procedures Manual;
(d)
the right of MDA to inspect, by itself, or if the Association shall so 
request, jointly with the Association, the goods included in the Municipal 
Sub-Project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documentation;
(e)
the right of MDA to obtain all information as MDA or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial 
conditions of the Municipal Sub-Project;
(f)
the right of MDA to suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible 
Municipality to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Municipal Sub-Project, upon 
failure by the Eligible Municipality, to perform any of its obligations under its 
Municipal Contract; and
(g)
in case of Municipal Sub-Loans, a repayment term not to exceed one 
hundred forty four (144) months and an interest rate of 4.25%.
B.
Part D of the Project
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying out Part D of the 
Project, AGETIP shall apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the AGETIP 
Procedures Manual and shall not amend such AGETIP Procedures Manual or waive any 
provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of Part D of the Project.
Eligibility Criteria for Rural Communities
2.
Without limitation upon the criteria specified in the AGETIP Procedures Manual, 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, a Rural Area Authority, prior to 
certification to receive financing, shall have:
(a)
submitted a request (dossier de candidature) to AGETIP; 
(b)
identified and prepared a Rural Sub-Project which is consistent with the 
procedures and guidelines described in the AGETIP Procedures Manual, including the 
environment-related procedures and guidelines; and 
(c)
evaluated and made arrangements for the timely availability of the 
contribution of the Rural Community concerned, in accordance with the guidelines 
specified in the AGETIP Procedures Manual.
Page  18
Eligibility of Rural Sub-Projects
3.
Without limitation upon the criteria specified in the AGETIP Procedures Manual, 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, only a Rural Sub-Project which 
meets the following criteria shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Credit: 
(a)
the Rural Sub-Project provides for the contribution of the Rural Area 
authority, in accordance with criteria specified in the AGETIP Procedures Manual;
(b)
the Rural Sub-Project is environmentally sound;
(c)
in the case of Rural Sub-Projects involving involuntary resettlement of 
population, an action plan for the resettlement of the affected population, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been agreed upon.
Terms and Conditions of the Rural Sub-Grants made for Rural Sub-Projects
4.
Rural Sub-Projects shall be carried out under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Rural Area Authority to carry out the Rural 
Sub-Project in accordance with the AGETIP Procedures Manual, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and 
management standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations in respect of Rural Sub-Projects;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Rural Sub-Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the AGETIP Procedures Manual; 
and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Rural Sub-Projects; 
(c)
the right of AGETIP to inspect, by itself, or if the Association shall so 
request, jointly with the Association, the goods included in the Rural Sub-Project, 
the operations thereof and any relevant records and documentation; and 
(d)
the right of AGETIP to obtain all information as AGETIP or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Rural Sub-Project.
C.
Miscellaneous Provisions
Annual Review
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall, in conjunction with MDA and AGETIP, carry out, in 
accordance with the Performance Monitoring Indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, jointly with the Association, a comprehensive annual project implementation 
review aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and 
resolving obstacles to project implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with 
the Association, targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project as of the date of the review, and ensuring 
responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall carry out, or 
cause MDA or AGETIP to carry out, recommendations arising out of said reviews, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon.
Mid-Term Review
2.
The Borrower shall: 
Page  19
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Monitoring Indicators 
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3), 
(4)(a) and (b) and (5) with respect to MDA Special Account, and Categories (1)(b), 
2(b), (4)(c) and (6) with respect to AGETIP Special Account, set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works  and services required for  the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to FCFA 
2,000,000,000 in respect of the MDA Special Account, and an amount equivalent to FCFA 
600,000,000 in respect of the AGETIP Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 300,000,000 in respect of AGETIP Special 
Account until the aggregate amount of withdrawals under 
categories 1 
(b), 2 (b), 4 (c), and 6 from the Credit 
Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 750,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Accounts of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested;
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
Page  20
the Special Accounts at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Accounts for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts: (a)
if, at 
any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  21
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Monitoring Indicators 
A.
Indicators for the MDA for the execution of municipal contracts
Destination
YR1
YR2
YR3
YR4
YR5
1) Number of signed municipal contracts 
2) Total of the signed municipal contracts in FCFA billions
___  () 
___  ()
___  () 
___  ()
___  () 
___  ()
3) Total of the signed CMA conventions, in FCFA billions
___   (5)
___   (5) 
___   (4)
___   (5) 
___   (4) 
___   (1)
___   (4)
___   (1)
___   (1)                                
TOTAL (9)
___   (5)
(the numbers in parenthesis indicate the goals)
4) Recovery rate of municipal monthly payments. 
(Paid monthly payments / estimated monthly payments)
______
5) Delay in the monthly payments. 
(Number of delays)
______
6) Annual evaluation of the execution of Priority Maintenance Program
((1) Number of executions to the budget)
______
((2) Number of activity reports)
______
((3) Number of verifications)
______
7) Number of staff who have benefited from training 
______
B.
Indicators for the CMA for the execution of PIP et PAC3
PAC3
1)  Percentage of projects for which the studies were achieved in the 
Page  22
allocated time period. ___  (75)
2)  Percentage of public works contracts achieved in the estimated time 
period. ___  (75)
3)  Percentage of contracts executed which follow the budget estimated 
in the 
study (10% more or less)___  (90)
4) Number of bidding documents initiated yearly___    ( )
5) Annual percentage of projects executed compared to the number of 
planned projects ___  (75)
6)  Average payment delays (in days)___  (30)
7)  Days between studies and contract award ___  (75) 
8)  Number of activity reports produced not including expected 
delays___    ( )
9)  Disbursements___    ( )
10) Annual total amount of signed contracts 
___    ( )
11) Investment by beneficiary___    ( )
12) Investment by project type 
___    ( )
13) Number of benefiting enterprises___    ( )
14) Number of benefiting contract management agencies 
___
    ( )(the numbers in parenthesis indicate the goals)
C.
Indicators for the institutional support Local level
1)  Number of municipalities having adopted regularisation plans with concessionaire 
societies (SDE, SONATEL, and SENELEC).
______
2) Number of municipalities that adopted alternative management methods for their 
revenue generating facilities.
______
3) Number of municipalities that improved the quality of their human resources without 
altering their financial situation.
______
4)  Rate of increase of current revenues.
(N/(N-1))
______
5)  Savings rate.
(current revenues - current expenses / current revenues)
______
6) Rate of increase of the local direct tax system.(TFPB + business tax) 
    (N/(N-1))
______
7) Rate of increase of other current revenues. (N/(N-1))
 
______
8) Rate of budget execution. (quality of the budget preparation)
______
- in revenues 
(Revenues achieved / expected revenues)
______
- in expenses 
(Expenses achieved / expected expenses) ______
Central level 
9)
Advancement of the fiscal reforms. (at mid-term review)
______
10) 
FECL reforms. (at mid-term review) 
______ 
