Report No. PID991
Project Name                     Senegal-Urban Development and (@ +) ...
Decentralization Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Urban Development
Project ID                       SNPA2365
Borrower                         Republic of Senegal
Supervisory Ministry             Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Municipal Development Agency (MDA)
for PAC1 and PAC2 and AGETIP for PAC3
Dakar, Senegal
Contact: Mr. Sakho and Mr. Sarr (MDA)
Tel: 221.823.93.56
Fax: 221. 823.93.60
Date PID Prepared                December 4, 1997
Date the initial PID prepared    July 15, 1994
Appraisal Date                   April 1, 1997
Board Date                       November 20, 1997
Country/Sector Background
1.      While the economy of Senegal grew at an average annual rate of
2.2 percent from 1982 to 1992, the population also grew at a
relatively high rate of 2.6 percent per year. The average urban
population growth rate was 3.7 percent from 1990 to 1995. The urban
areas are not equipped for the rapid pace of expansion which
severely tests the capacity of municipalities to efficiently deliver
basic urban services and manage economic, environmental and
investment resources. Investments in urban infrastructure have
increased over the past years, supported by a number of externally
funded projects.
2.      The Government of Senegal (GOS) has pursued a progressive, yet
cautious decentralization policy since independence in 1960. The
1990 reforms brought about a better definition of roles and
responsibilities of local governments but were not linked to the
transfer of financial or technical resources, both essential to
municipal development. The adoption of legislative reforms in
February 1996 are initial efforts to ensure the transfer of
financial resources to support the transfer of technical
competencies. With the emergence of the decentralization process,
municipalities are faced with the crucial issue of deciding, in a
context of limited financial, technical and human resources, what to
deliver (priorities), where to deliver it, who should be the primary
beneficiaries, and how it should be financed, managed and maintained.
Project Objectives



3.      This program supports the Senegalese Decentralization Policy
and aims at gradually shifting responsibility and accountability, in
terms of delivery and maintenance of urban services, and
infrastructure to municipalities. The program's objectives are: (a)
to improve the financial and organizational management of
municipalities; (b) to improve the programming of priority urban
investments; (c) to rationalize and simplify the financing of urban
investments; and (d) to upgrade basic infrastructures in urban and
some rural communities.
Project Description
4.      The program includes two main components: (1) capacity building
of central and local governments through (a) the implementation
of a Municipal Adjustment Program (MAP) based on a municipal
contract, a binding agreement between the central government and
municipalities, and (b) support activities aimed at providing an
enabling environment for these Municipal Adjustment Programs to take
place (training, fiscal reforms study, etc.); and (2) physical
investments including the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of public infrastructure, facilities and services under
the responsibility of local governments, including: (a) roads,
drainage and lighting; (b) education and health facilities; (c)
socio-collective facilities; (d) administrative and technical
buildings; (e) revenue generating facilities (markets, bus
stations); (f) environmental sub-projects (on-site sanitation and
solid waste management); and (h) rehabilitation of historic buildings.
Project Financing
5.      In addition to IDA credit of US$75 million equivalent, external
financing will be available. The Senegalese Government and the
municipalities will finance an amount estimated at US$19.3 million.
The donor community has expressed interest in parallel financing.
The CFD (Caisse FranQaise de Developpement) has agreed to a parallel
financing of Ffs 50 million.
Project Implementation
6.      The different actors who will participate in the execution of
the project include: (a) the Senegalese Government; (b) the MDA; (c)
municipalities; (d) the Mayors Association of Senegal and the
Association of Presidents of rural communities; (e) accepted
contract management agencies; (f) financial institutions; and (g)
the private sector (contractors, consultants and the beneficiary
population). The MDA was created as the delegated executing agency
for the UDDP. A manual of procedures defines the MDA's role and
operational procedures. The MDA will: (a) assist municipalities in
the preparation of municipal contracts and implementation of their
MAPs; (b) implement and supervise support activities; and (c) work
closely with the contract management agency. The collaborative,
independent relationship between the MDA and the administration will
enable the MDA to maximize its position of neutrality in decision
making while maintaining close contact with the Government.
- 2 -



7.      The Senegalese Government is responsible for the: (a)
allocation of the amount of the FECL; and (b) adoption of
legislative and local fiscal reforms to assist the MDA's objectives.
8.      Municipalities elaborate, negotiate and sign a municipal
contract, prepare an investment plan, work with the MDA on studies
and financing, and work with a Contract Management Agency (CMA) on
project implementation. The CMA will be the primary agency to
execute and supervise the investment program defined in the
municipal contract. AGETIP will be the primary CMA for PAC1 and
PAC2 and the executing agency for PAC3. All studies and projects
will be implemented by private sector firms. As is currently the
practice, the CMA does not execute any operations itself and,
therefore, contracts out all the sub-projects to local consultants,
entrepreneurs and suppliers in order to maximize the participation
of local entrepreneurs and generate employment through labor-
intensive approaches to public works. Contracting enables the
municipality and the CMA to avoid hiring additional technical staff
and remain focused on improving work quality and developing skills
of managers and workers. An improved quality of work will be
obtained through training consultants and contracting staff,
tightening classification criteria for contract awards and improving
supervision of work.
Project sustainability
9. The program is timely, considering the recent decentralization
reforms and the latest municipal elections (December 1996). The
tools to improve the programming of municipal investments and the
overall management of municipalities have been designed with the
major objective of being user-friendly and becoming, over time, part
of common management practices. The overall institutional framework
of UDDP responds to the need to simplify and rationalize the
distribution of responsibilities among the various public and
private actors in the financing and delivery of infrastructure and
services, in a political climate which is ripe for these changes.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
10.     While the previous two Public Works Projects have been
successful in the provision of urban services, they have not
addressed the crucial issue of transferring responsibility to local
governments for programming, financing and maintenance of these
services and infrastructure. The lessons learned from the Public
Works Projects include the need to: (a) increase the involvement of
beneficiaries in project identification and planning to secure
program sustainability, especially operations and maintenance.
Capacity development at the municipal and community level will
enable the municipalities to play their proper role in the
development process; (b) include social and economic analysis in the
appraisal process in addition to the technical engineering studies;
(c) require the deposit of counterpart funds before the review of
sub-projects to offset the slow disbursement of funds by the
Government; (d) increase environmental impact consideration; (e)
consider the proposed projects' impact on current projects; and (f)
-3 -



take into account the effectiveness of setting up an autonomous,
commercial oriented agency with stakeholders representatives on its
Governing Board.
Poverty Category
11.     The program will have an impact on a large percentage of the
urban and rural population, particularly in low-income, urban
neighborhoods which currently endure inadequate levels of services
with serious environmental risks. The Priority Investment Program
(PIP) is selected on the basis of an inventory of basic
infrastructure and services (Inventaire pour la Programmation des
Infrastructures et Equipements/IPIE), a tool which assesses and
identifies gaps in the level of neighborhood services. Each sub-
project is then screened on the basis of a poverty impact
evaluation.   Furthermore, the urban audit process places an
emphasis on underserved areas and aims to enhance the population's
access to basic services.
Environmental Aspects
12.     This category B program will facilitate sustainable
improvements in the living and working environment of Senegal's
urban areas. See annex for details.
Project Benefits
13.     The program will support the decentralization process and
promote a more active role for municipalities and to some extent for
rural communities. It will: (a) stimulate the capacity of local
governments to efficiently program, finance, execute and maintain
facilities, as well as to deliver the services; (b) facilitate
improved municipal financial performance and contribute to the
macroeconomic objectives, through a reduction of the public sector
deficit; (c) positively impact the urban and rural population
through: (i) reduced costs of and better access to municipal
services and to basic rural infrastructure; and (ii) employment
generation through sustained public works activities.
Project Risks
14.     The major program risks are: (a) introduction of parallel
competitive, less demanding sources of funding to municipalities by
other donors; (b) inability of the Government to enact the required
fiscal reforms or effectively manage the decentralization program;
(c) failure of municipalities to implement the municipal adjustment
programs or to reimburse their share of the credit; and (d)
unfavorable macroeconomic conditions during program execution.
15.     These are important risks which cannot be ignored, although the
rewards from the successful implementation of the Program are also
very high. Several factors reduce these risks: (a) continued
coordination with donors during project preparation and their
adherence to the Program as demonstrated by their willingness to
participate in UDDP; (b) strong ownership demonstrated by the
- 4 -



Government and the municipalities through their participation in
project preparation; and (c) a realistic assessment of the
municipalities' financial capacity and a pragmatic Municipal
Adjustment Program catered to specific local circumstances and
performances.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 23, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Environment
This category B program will facilitate sustainable improvements in
the living and working environment of Senegal's urban areas. The
physical and socio-economic conditions of the urban population will
improve due to the upgrading of urban infrastructure and increased
provision of basic urban services. In order to ensure the physical
components have a positive impact on the urban environment, an
environmental impact checklist will be included in the preparation
of the municipal contract. The checklist capitalizes on the 1993
final environmental report (etude sur l'Environnement Urbain au
Senegal) and the 1994 complementary study (Complement de l'etude sur
l'Environnement Urbain au Senegal). The creation of a checklist has
the dual advantage of: (a) screening sub-projects in a more
operational manner than with an environmental assessment; and (b)
enhancing the pedagogical value of raising local governments'
awareness of their proposed projects' environmental impact. Each
sub-project will be selected on the basis of an environmental impact
evaluation form, highlighting specific eligibility criteria.
- 6 -



