Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3006-SE
AGETIP Project Agreement
(Urban Development and Decentralization Program)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE D’EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D’INTERET PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI 
Dated December 29, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3006-SE 
AGETIP PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 29, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and Agence d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêt Public Contre le 
Sous-Emploi (AGETIP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty five million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
AGETIP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
AGETIP the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to AGETIP on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS AGETIP in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AGETIP declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to this 
end, shall carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part D of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and AGETIP shall otherwise agree, AGETIP shall carry out 
Part D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part D of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AGETIP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the AGETIP Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
AGETIP shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and AGETIP a 
plan for the future operation of Part D of the Project; and (ii) afford the 
Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with AGETIP on said plan.
Section 2.04. AGETIP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AGETIP shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AGETIP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part D of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
AGETIP shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGETIP of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of AGETIP 
Section 3.01. AGETIP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. AGETIP shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
Page  3
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, technical 
and environmental practices. 
Section 3.03. AGETIP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGETIP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
in respect of Part D of the Project.
(b)
AGETIP shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
such year as 
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements 
as 
well as the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AGETIP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify AGETIP of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
Page  4
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For AGETIP:
Agence d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêts Public
   Contre le Sous-Emploi
Bd Djily Mbaye et Berenger Ferrand
P.O. Box 143
Dakar
Republic of Senegal
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGETIP or by 
AGETIP on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its Director General, or by such other person or persons as AGETIP 
shall designate in writing, and AGETIP shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE D’EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D’INTERET
 PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
Page  5
