Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No.  9570
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1011-IN)
MAY 17, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distributiorn and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Name of Currency: Rupee (Rs.)
Rate of Exchange:   Appraisal (Sept. 1979)          US$ 1.00 = Rs. 8.40
Intervening years (average)     US$ 1.00 = Rs.12.25
Completion year                 US$ 1.00 = Rs.15.50
Fiscal Year of Borrower:        GOI and GOG: April 1 to March 31
Weights and Measures:           Metric System
Glossary
bhandara     -     Ungated Tidal Regulator
kharif       -     Wet season: June - October
rabi         -     Dry season: November - April
chak         -     Watercourse Cultivable Command Area
nala         -     Natural Drainage Channel
watercourse  -     Small channL! below outlet serving a chak
warabandi   -      A rotational water supply system (RWS) of allocating water among farmers
by fixed turns and ti-ne periods; flow rate is constant, and time periods are
proportional to land holding size.
Abbreviations
CADA         -     Command Area Development Authority
CDO          -     Central Designs Organization
GOG          -     Government of Gujarat
GOI          -     Government of India
PCR          -     Project Completion Report
RWS          -     Rotational Water Supply
WALMI        -     Water and Land Management Institute
WRD          -     Water Resources Department (GOG)



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olface of lrctoq-Cenera
Opeotam lvaludnt"n
May 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India Gujarat
Irrigation II Proiect (Credit 1011-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Credit 1011-IN)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by
the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
'2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
PROEc COMEtLTION RE-PORT
INDIA
GUIARAT IRRGTO n PROJECr
(CREDIT 101 1-IN)
TABLE OF CON1ENT
Page, No.
Preface ..........................................                                                                    i
Evaluation Summary ..........................                                                                      iii
EarI Project Review from Bank's Perspective
Project Identity ......................................                                                                1
Background  .......................................                                                                    1
Project Objectives and Description ..........................                                                          2
Project Design and Organization  ...........................                                                           3
Project Implementation .................................5 
Project Results ......... .............................                                                                6
Project Sustainability ..................................                                                              8
Bank's Performance  .    ................................                                                              9
Borrower's Perforrnance ................................                                                              10
Project Relationships ..................................                                                              12
Consulting Services ...................................                                                               12
Project Docrrmentation and Data ...........................                                                           12
Part n Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
Comments on Part I ................1...................                                                               13
Evaluation of World Bank's Performance  .....................                                                         15
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance .......................                                                          17
Effectiveness of Relationship Between Bank and Borrower ...........                                                   19
Statement I on Budget and Expenditure .......................                                                         2C
Part I   Statistical Tables .........                                  ......................                         21
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and Credits .....................                                                        22
Table 2 - Project Time Table .............................                                                            24
Table 3 - Schedule of Disbursements ........................                                                          25
Table 4 - Project Implementadon ..........................                                                            26
Table 5 - Project Costs and Financing
A  - Project Costs ..............................                                                      30
B  - Project Financing ...........................                                                     32
Table 6 - Project Results
A - Direct Benefits .............................                                                      34
B  - Economic Impact ...........................                                                       35
Table 7 - Status of Covenants ......                                                                                   39
Table 8 - Use of Bank Resources
A - Staff Inputs ..                                                                                    43
B  - Bank Missions .............................                                                      44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Ivi I
(CrDI 101 I-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Gujarat Irrigation Project
in the State of Gujarat, India, for which Credit 1011-IN in the amount of US$ 175 Million was
approved on April 29,1980. The Credit was closed on April 30, 1989 after an initial two-year
extension and a final one-year extension of Closing Date. The final disbursement was made in
November 1989 and US$ 15.7 M was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the New Delhi Agricultue Unit of the Agriculture
Operations Division 4 of the Asia Regonal Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision mission in
February 1989, and is based, inte alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit
Agreement and Project Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and various other reports, studies and analyses.



- iil -
PROJE( T CONFLMION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT IGAffi52EPROJECI
(CRErr101I-E
EVALUJAT10 SUMMARY
1.  The objectives of the project were to achieve an econiomic use of scarce surface water
resources and to ensure a reliable and equitable supply to individual farmers through: construction
of two new imgation schemes (Damanganga and Karjan); modernization of Ukai-Kakrapar
irrigation system; development of Saurashtra coastal salinity ingression control scheme;
establishment of a training institute for land deveiopment and water management (WALMI);
econstruction of Machhu I darn; rehabilitation of Machhu II irrigation and water supply scheme;
safety modifications of Machhu I dam and introduction of operational and management
improvements thiough warabandi-type supply (rotational water supply [RWSJ) on existing and
new schemes. The project also provided funds for preparation of new projects in Gujarat and in
other States.
IMmplnntation Eaj:n e,
2. Except for some specific work and components which moved ahead reasonably well, the
overall implementation of the project fell well short of achieving the project's established goals and
objectives despite two extensions in the Credit Closing Date from April 30, 1986 to April 30,
1989. Among the bright spots was the establishment and achievements of WALMI and the
construction of Machhu II dam rehabilitation works which showed good progress. As highlighted
in para. 15, Part I, constraints associated with slippage against achievement targets included
persistent land acquisition problems; misunderstood and slow derivation of solutions to multi-
faceted canal lining problems; persistent misunderstandings on implementation of rotational water
supply (RWS) networks in terms of bothe inability of Bank missions to communicate and
project staff to implement essential elements; major project restructurincluding substitution of
the Machhu for the Heran sub-project in 1985; retendering of Kajan Dam; severe drought
conditions from 1985 to 1987, preceded by destructive floods i 1979 and 1983 (leading to
consecutive redesign of spillways at all dams); mid-tenn reductions in budgeted oudays;
'adequate construction management; and, general lack of result-oriented implementation methods
by the Government of Gujarat's (GOG) Water Resources Department. These constraints led to
continuous slippage of targets, with the worst slippage occurring in the construcdon of distribution
networks in accodance with acceptable designs for lining and the agreed RWS procedures.
Despite GOG's eventual comnitment to the introduction of warabandi-type RWS during the agreed
Action Plan of 1987, the Water Resources Department reverted back to the appraisal standards of
employing chak sizes of 20 ha or less at Damanganga subproject. Adoption of such small size
chaks, made the field water applications impossible and the systems operations cumbersome and
expensive. Paras. 18, 22 and 31 of Part I bring out this deficiency.



- iv -
Project Results
3.  Physical achievements, subproject-wise, are detailed in Table 4, Part III. It reflects a
particularly distressing situation that whereas the subproject dams and reservoirs were virtually
complete and stood ready to supply water, the conveyance systemn (especially minors and water
courses) was woefully lagging in terms of its readiness to distribute water in accordance with RWS
criteria, thereby delaying or denying the benefits of irrigation deliveries to the farmers.
4.  Notwithstanding the lack of full accomplishment of appraisal objectives, many positive
results had emanated from the project which are listed in para. 25, Part I, including ever increasing
awareness and acceptance of warabandi-type RWS concept by the implementors and the farmers;
creation of a much needed storage potential at Damanganga, Kaijan and Machhu II dams as well as
at six bhandaras and four tidal regulators (in the Saurashtra coastal region) which will provide an
irreplaceable advantage for large drought-prone areas of the state in future years.
5.  Also, in terms of achievements, project impleir ntation by the Credit Closing Date of April
30, 1989 had progressed to such a stage that, given a determined push from GOG, the objectives
of irrigation sector RWS goals could be significantly accomplished in the subprojects in the near
future.
6.  The analysis detailed in Table 6B, concludes that the economic rate of return of the project as
a whole would be 3.2% as compared to the appraisal estimate of 18%. This shortfall in the
economic rate of return when compared to that evaluated at appraisal was due to: (i) enormous cost
escalation in both nominal and real terns; (ii) serious delays in the accrual of benefits; and (iii) a
net decrease in the command area.
7 .  The direct benefits as estimated on the Closing Date of the project, depicted in Table 6A, Part
HI, fall far short of the appraisal estimate. The benefits, estimated to accrue at full development,
would be about 80% of the estimated targets.
Sustai-nabiitv 
8.  The project as a whole has not reached a free standing cornpletion stage, though sub-project
dams are coxnplete and the canals and branches are nearing completion. Upon completion of the
high-priority components, including the distribution network and strengthening of Machhu I dam,
it is expected that the project, generally constructed to satisfactory standards and backed with
enhanced operation and maintenance budget sanctioned through GOG's Resolution of December
20, 1988, would give long and satisfactory service to the State of Gujarat and would be sustainable
over the nonnally accepted long life expectancy for projects of this type.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
9.  It was an unfortunate situation that despite the Bank's technical advice and supervision
inputs, the principal project objective of accomplishing operational and management improvements
on the modemization and new sub-projects distribution networks, the resultant irrigation benefits
to the farmers could not be achieved fully by GOG even with a three-year extension of the Credit
Closing Date. The basic inability of GOG over the years in solving land acquisition and canal
lining problems, and reluctance in accepting the warabandi-type RWS criteria combined with the
overnding need to provide workable and equitable solutions to water shortages in the project
command areas, caused abnormal delays in the implementation of distribution networks. In
retrospect, there are some lessons to be learnt. These have been highlighted in detail in para. 13 (a)-
(g). Principally, the Bank appraisal team had overestimated the opportunities for technical input by
the Bank as well as technical input of GOG and was accordingly unrealistic when it specified a
time schedule of five years for completing a composite project of such magnitude and complexity,
and particularly so in the State of Gujarat which was known to experience severe floods followed
by acute and prolonged droughts. A reasonable allowance should have been made in the



- v -
construction s^hedule to allcw for such vagaries of nature in this drought-prone state. The State in
its over-enthusiasm, had not properly assessed its land acquisition problems and had also over-
estimated its administrative, organizational, technical and resource capabilities when it agreed to
complete the project in five years. GOG did not make a proper and realistic analysis of all relevant
aspects before committing to such a tight implementation schedule. However, once committed, the
State should have adopted result-oriented goals at all levels including enforcement of contract
provisions and an aggressive management attitude and capability adequate to define and achieve
frequently revised implementation schedules which GOG failed to do. The Bank's other pnmary
deficiencies were iL.correctly setting the size of the chak at about 20 ha which was far too small to
crea te a usable minimum stream size for efficient and timely management of water supply rotations
within the chak. The Bank also did not interject adequate technical support for resolving technical
issues related to implementation of RWS systems and canal lining programs in a timely manner.



(CREDIT 101 1-IN)
PART I: PROJECr REVEW EROM EANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Prject Iden
1.          Name                     : Gujarat Irrigation II Project
Credit Number           : 1011-IN
RVP Unit                : Asia Region
Country                 : India
State                   : Gujarat
Sector                  : Agriculture
Backgund
2.   At the time of appraisal, India had a population of 640 M, growing at an annual rate of
about 2%. Over the period about 70% of the population was engaged in Agriculture which
accounted for a 45% increase in GNP. Conservatively ineasured, some 300 M people (47% of the
population) still lived with incomes below the poverty line. To remove unemployment as well as
significant under-employment and raise the standard of living for the poorest segments of
population, Covernment of India (GOI) gave high priority to agricultural development.
Accordingly, agricultural growth and the expansion of irrigation facilities were made the
cornerstones in the development strategy of India's Five Year Economic Plans.
3.   The Government of Gujarat (GOG) accorded high priority to Agriculture in its
Development Programs in line with the priorities fixed by GOI for achieving poverty alleviation
through accelerated growth of agricultural incomes. As a result, a number of irrigation projects
were started in the 1950's, and between 1952/53 and 1964/65, agricultural production in Gujarat
grew at an accelerated rate and, ma:nly as a result of favorable weather, agricultural production
reached a peak in 1970171 and 1971/72 and in 1978/79.
4.   The State of Gujarat covers an area of 19.6 M ha and had a population of about 32 M at
project appraisal. Notwithstanding the State being relatively urbanized and having a large
manufacturing sector, the economy of the State was highly influenced by agriculture, which, in X
normal rainfall year, contributed some 35 to 40% of the State's income and employed about 6i%
of the labor force. Low and uncertain rainfall in successive years makes Gujarat extremely
susceptible to droughts and famine.
5.   Inspite of the fact that Gujarat managed to achieve a relatively high proportion (90%) of its
targeted irrigation potential durirng India's Fifth Plan (1974-79), there was a serious lag in
utilization which, combined with low yields, held benefits well below the potential that v'uld
have been achieved. Deficiencies in planning, design and management also contributed
substantially to this unfavorable situation.
6.   Against the above background, the Second Gujarat Irigation Project (Credit 101 I-IN)
sought to help meet the National and State objectives of expanding agricultural development,
including modernization, and addressirg the causes of under-utilization of irnigation investments
with a special focus on improving the planning, design, implementation and managemnent of
irrigation subprojects.



2
Project Objectives and Description
7.    The project originally suppor-d three new irrigation schemnes (Damnanganga, Karjan and
Heran); modernization of U  *-Kakiapar irigaon system; Saurashtra coastal salinity ingrssion
and control scheme; a Water and Lan   anement   ning Institute (WALMI), and a fund for
preparation of new projects in Gujarat and other Indian States. After project arnendments of
January 7, 1986, Heran subproject was deleted and replaced with the Machhu sub-project complex
comprising Machhu I dam strengthening and Machhu II dam irrigation system and rehabilitation.
The major components are located in distincdy different areas of Gujarat State. Damanganga and
Karjan are located in the more backward Southern parts of the mainland, the Ukai-Kakrapar
modemization component is located on the fertile coastal plain of South Gujarat and the coastal
development component (a composite of smaller schemes) is located along the Saurashtra coast
where a very productive area irrigated from wells is threatened by intrusion of saline ground water
from the sea. The Machhu complex, on Machhu river, is situated in Saurashtra in Western Gujarat
near the Little Rann of Kutch.
8.    The project objective, as modified over time, consisted of financing a five-year time-slice of
Gujarat's major project irrigation developm.ent and support programs through implementation of
the following components:
(a)    Completion of dams and major canals and lined distribudon system down to the
sub-chak level on the two on-going major irrigation schemes (Darnanganga and
Karjan with cultivable command areas of 56100 ha and 56200 ha, respectively);
and improving the command area road networks in each case;
(b)    Reconstruction of Machhu II dam, rehabilitation of Machhu II irrigation and water
supply schemes and implementation of safety modifications to Machhu I dam;
(c)    Modernization of irrigation facilities at Ukai-Kakrapar on about 52,000 ha of which
33,000 ha was to be completely modernized and completion of drainage
improvements on abcut 20,000 ha;
(d)    Construction of storage, diversion and distribution facilities to provide supplies for
the irrigation of about 25,000 ha along coastal areas in Saurashtra, where
groundwater was affected by salt-water intrusion from the sea due to overpumping.
It included the construction of tidal regulators, Bhandaras, check dams and gully
plugs and also envisaged afforestation of 10,000 ha along the coast and in the
upper watersheds of the contributing catchments;
(e)    Operational and management improvements including installation of Rotaional
Water Supply (RWS) networks on existing modernization and new irrigation
schemes;
(f)    Establishing a training center for land development and water management
improvements (WALMI) to fill the cadre of the special Command Area
Development Authority;
(g)    Monitori -- and Evaluation studies; and
(h)   Financing of consultants, incremental staff, equipment and special studies for the
preparation of irrigation projects in Gujarat and other Indian States.
9.    Project physical indicators are given in Table 4 and the project cost estimates in Table SA,
Part III. The proiect cost estimate at appraisal was US$ 360 M (Rs.3024 M). A Credit of US$ 175
M to finance about 49% of the total project cost was signed on May 12, 1980 and made effective
on June 27, 1980. Closing was scheduled for April 30, 1986. A 2-year extension was approved
through the amendments of January 1986 which deleted Heran and added the Machhu complex. A



3
third-year extansion was approved by the Credit amendment of April 28, 1988 up to April 30,
1989 at Nhich time the Credit was closed due mainly to lack of adequate overall perfornance.
Financing details are given in Table 5B, Part III, which indicates the Final (March 1989) revised
cost of the project as Rs.5182 M.
PriJct Design and Organizadon
10.  The project appraisal and the staff appraisal report covered all the key features and project
execution requirements, including the organization and management structure. The Project
Agreements comprehensively listed the cniteria, standards and procedures required to be followed
by Government of Gujarat regarding project planning, design, construction and operation. It also
required the establishment of an independent panel of experts to periodically examine the concept,
design and constiuction of dams and spillways as well as the quality and adequacy of operation
and maintenance. It envisaged a separate Command Area Development Wing, adequately staffed
with WALMI-trained land and water development specialists to carry out water management of the
completed sub-projects under RWS principles. The overall project framework was thus well
defined and illustrated for achieving the end objective, vis-a-vis to ensure a reliable and equitable
supply of water to individual farmers under agreed RWS operations. However, in retrospect the
human and financial resources to carry out the complex and composite State-wide project in both
quantitative and qualitative terms among the responsible Deparutents was considerably
overestimated at appraisal, resulting in delays ard an incomplete project.
11.  The direct responsibility for planning, design and implementation of the project rested with
the Irigation Departnent which l1ter became the Water Resources Department (WRD). The State's
independent Central Designs Organization (CDO) prepared detailed designs of earthen and
masonry dams and canals and canal structures. It was assisted by the Gujarat Engineering
Research Institute in Vadodara and the State's agreed Dam Review Panel (for major irrigation
projects) on resolving the specialized technical issues referred to them from time to time. The
Central Water Commission of GOI also rendered advice to CDO on specific issues refen-ed to it
such as flood hydrology.
12.  Construction methods were boadly outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report. Although
conceding that the construction would continue to be by and large labor intensive, a stipulation was
made in the report that where quality control and safety was especially important or q""-ities
difficult to estimate in advance, the WRD would implement the work with heavy and specialized
departmental equipment. In addition, it was made mandatory to carry out compaction of dams,
canals and road embankmnents with mechan; A equipment. In this context, the construction of the
entire earthen dam component in Machhu I dam complex was efficiently completed using the
Department's equipment
13.  Descrptions and specifications for each subproject and the major components listed in the
Staff Appraisal Report were generally adequate. However, in the way of a constructive critique,
principal shortcomings in project implementation and concept can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Inadequate time was allowed for the resolution of land acquisition steps under State
law including situations that required condemnation proceedings some of which
persisted throughout implementation, holding up critical Alements of some
subprojects, particularly canal construction.
(b)   Inadequate allowance was made for time-consuming resolution of design and
construction issues involving, testing and decisions inherent in the design and
selection of suitable canal linings. The problem was complicated by occurrence of
substantial areas of heavy (clayey) soils with expansive tendencies calling for a
flexible lining such as bricks or tiles and related difficulties with quality control in
the manufacture of concrete tiles, all of which resulted in a time-consuming trial and
error situation.



4
(c)   Tle early decision by GOG to retender Karjan Dam as required to fulfdll Bank
procurement requirements following its initiation by the public sector Gujarat State
Construction Corporation, and subsequent award to a private sector contractor was
a time-consuming and disruptive expetience for all concerned.
(d)   An early decision by GOG to delete the Heran subproject for socio-environmental
reasons led to a full restructuring and re-evaluation of the project in 1985 that
resulted in the inclusion of the Machhu subproject complex all of which was a time-
consurning and disruptive process.
(e)    The Staff Appraisal Report specified in the Design Standards of the distribution
network that chak sizes should, in general, not exceed 20 ha. This specification
was, in reality an inherent errr and an obstacle in the implementation of RWS.
Thereby, despite GOG's agreements in the Action Plans of April 1987 and April
1988 to implement irrigation in accordance with warabandi-type RWS, ie., chak
sizes of between 30 and 60 hectares, the Department had initiated and then reverted
back to appraisal standards of emnploying chak sizes of 20 ha or less (some as small
as 5-6 ha) which were too small to effectively implement the agreed RWS
networks. The Department rejected the Bank's interim suggestions of combining
the adjacent smaller chaks into larger chaks (30 to 60 ha) and creating water course
linkages so that the entidtled discharge at the outlet could fonn an adequate irrigation
stream GOG's insistence on literally following the appraisal report's specified
standards and not constructing required additional parallel water courses, as
rcommended in the agreed Action Plans, had thus ruled out the accomplishment of
warabandi-type RWS in 56,CY)O ha at Damanganga.
(f)    The project's implementadon schedule of 5 years was in retrospect far too
optimistic. It is none-the-less found to be typical of most Bank financed 5-year
irrigation projects in India which have been shown to slip an average of about 2
years due to a variety of masons including insufficient mobilization time, delays in
land acquisition, poor management, slow procurement processing, etc. However, it
may be argued that the accumulated 3-year extension of this Credit resulting in large
shortfalls in meeting physical objectives (requiring an estinated additional 2 years
to complete) was also due to deficiencies in the appraisal analyses of the time
required for administering and managing this particular complex and widespread
muld-component project comprising five major multi-element irrigation sutrojects
and several large support progiamn' (VALMI, Interstate Planning Facilities, other
studies, etc.) which was also designed to set new and improved standards for
construction quality and operation performance. This large performance shortfall
was also due to the occurrence of both unforeseen and unprecedented floods and
droughts. Severe localized rainstorms in 1979 and 1983 caused the failure of
Machhu n1 dam and state-wide redesign of spillways at all dams twice in
succession. This was followed in 1985-87 by three of the most severe water short
years of record throughout Gujarat resulting in a substandal drain on State finances
and diversion of Department staff to drought scarcity programs. Nature's
intervention has contributed to the implementation delays but the extent of such
delays vis-a-vis shortfalls ^aused by inaccurate scheduling is impossible to
quantify. However, it may be important during future irrig4don project preparation
to include a reasonably adequate allowance of time for variables including: severe
vagare of nature; socio-cultural practices including extended holidays; unexpected
financial constraints; mobilization delays; procurement delays; procedural delays;
implementation of Dam Review Panel suggested investigations and resolution of
design issues; and, more training as needed to improve the implementation
efficiencies of staff and associated construction agencies. It is estimated that the
sum total effect of these factors would restrict the availability of time for actual



5
construction to only about 50% of that considered at project preparation and
apprisal stages.
(g)   The appraisal had over-estimated the capability of GOG to complete the required
implementation of distribution networks in accoidance with RWS principles within
the time frame of five years. Accordingly, intrduction and full implernentation of
RWS concept in Gujarat State, which was hitherto following the Shejpali system
for many decades, needed: muldple crossover and follow-up steps including the
overoming of inertia and reluctanee associated with a complete changeover from
one system to the other, commitment in full to agreed critena at the management
level with regard to intended RWS operation and water management principles;
modification of State-wide legal framework; mnobilization of famers willingness to
accept and participate in the new system; training of planning and design staff;
preparation of a manual of design guidelines for network planning, including
structures; metdculous construction of distribution network and structures basod on
RWS standards and criteria; trairing for operations staff; finalization of operating
plans and establishment of farmers organizations for active participadon. Given
this situation and related complexities of managing the widely dispersed and diverse
project components within Gujarat and, the quantum of multi-disciplinary inputs
needed for achieving the project objectives, the appraisal mission should have
forrnulated a more realistic time schedule. It is, in retopect, apparent that the
borrower aid its implementor, in over-enthusiasm, agreed to the implementation
schedule of five years without proper and realistic analyses.
14.  The project fell well short of achieving the project's established goals and objectives in both
quanttative and qualitative terms despite two extensions, totalling three years, of the Credit
Closing Date from April 30, 1986 to April 30, 1989. Project implementation condnued to
experience delays, both avoidable and unavoidable, leading to significant perfonnance deficiencies
right from the early stages of the Credit. Furthermore, it would not be reasonable to blame "stan
up" delays since several major components were on-going at appraisal. Except for some specific
works and components which moved ahead reasonably well, the overall implementation of the
project was less than satisfactory. Among the bright spots was the establishment of WALMI
according to the agmed schedule though it too suffered a lack of progrss for many years before
becoming an effective trainng institute. Persistent slippages against achievement targets were
encouterd because the physical implementadon of major components of almost every subproject
fell short of the targets soon after the finalization of the sequential Revised Implementation
Schedules. Numerous revised implementatdon schedules were loosely formulated by GOG at
regular intervals and during each semi-annual review, the sub-projects persistently lagged behind
the targets which had been revised only a few short months before. The dam and spillway works
on Machhu II dam rehabilitaton wors (included in the Credit through project amendment of
January 7, 1986) constituted one of the rare works complexes that was executed with reasonably
good speed as was also the roads network, although the latter works were often found defieient
quality-wise.
IS.  Persistent land acquisiton problems, slow technical decisions and related slowness in
dewrmining suitable canal lining designs and installaton methods, time-consming retendering of
Karjan Dam, a major project reformulation (substitution of the Machhu Dam's reconstruction and
modificadons for the deleted Kaijan subproject), extensive and persistent drought for three yeas
(from 1985 to 1987) preceded by unprecedented and destructive floods in 1979 and 1983 (leading
to consecutive redesign of spillways at all dams), inability of Bankl missions to communicate and
GOG staff to implement canal lining and RWS programs, were major factors in the slow
implementation by the WRD. The severe diversion of physical and financial resources to drought
scarcity programs, and frequent reassignments of the staff, also were   'stent constraints to
progress. Deficient constrcdon management, mid-term reductions in budgeted outlays, and lack
of sult-oiented scheduling and co-ordination, and implementation methods of the Department,



E
were the other principal factors which contributed to shortfalls in progress even during the non-
drought affected years. Interrlated constraints associated with these factors led to continued
slippages of targets.
16.  The components which lagged most consistently and severely included mninor distribution
networks, field channels and construction of aqueducts on Left Bank Main Canal of Damanganga
and Ka:Jan; modernization and improvements of canals and distribution systems to the 8 ha sub-
chak level and field channels of Ukai-Kakrapar, construction of main canal and distribution
network of Machhu II Irrigation Scheme; drainage systems under the Damanganga, Karjan and
Machhu II irrigation subprojects; erection of spillway gates at Kajan dam; dam safety
modifications of Machhu I dam and lift irrigation components of Saurashtra Coastal Sub-project.
17.  The most severe lag occurred in the implementation of minor distibution networks. This
situation was distressing in view of the fact that whereas the subproject dams and reservoirs were
virtually complete and stood ready to supply water, the distribution networks were woefuLy
lagging in terms of their readiness to distribute water in accordance with agreed RWS procedures
and criteria, thus, delaying interminably the benefits of irrigation deliveries to the farmers.
18.  Despite GOG's commitment to the introduction of warabandi-type RWS, the WRD
continued an overniding reluctance to actually construct and operate RWS networks as agreed.
GOG also exhibited reservations with regard to the rigorous application of RWS principles under
the existing legal framework. GOG did not initiate the needed steps with the promptness required
to clear those obstacles standing in the way of fully introducing RWS, including orientation of
system design features, training of design and operation staff, preparing the planning and design
manual, finalizing operating plans, and amending the Irrigation Act.
19.  Construction quality on some project components remained a cause of concern throughout
the project implementation and remained generally variable and at times alternated between
acceptable and poor. Quality of dam construction on Karjan conformed to very good professional
standards. The quality of constructon on Damanganga and Machhu II dams was also good.
However, the standards of canal lining in Damanganga continued to remain, by and large, poor
though there were intermiittent improvements. Frequent bulging and/or disintegration of concrete
lining blocks occurred at random in reaches of canal along with joint cracking in the uppermost
tiers of some canals. The plastic film underlining placed behind pre-cast concrete block lining had
been punctured at many spots during placement of blocks, thereby losing its intended utility as a
barrier against seepage. The cast-in-situ concrete lining in Damanganga cracked at places where
cohesive non-swelling soil layers (non-expansive soils) of adequate thickness were not provided in
expansive black cotton soil reaches. The Central Quality Control Unit discharged its "policing
role" only when it was adequately strengthened towards the advanced stages of construction.
Particularly, the state of disrepair of a large number of lined reaches in Damanganga canal system
presented an unfortunate example of poor quality construction and comnplete lack of interim
maintenance. In accordance with agreements in 1987 and 1988, GOG had to initiate a
comprehensive work programme for recdfication of defective work, which was in progress and
proceeding in the right direction at closing.
20.  Reservoir operation and flood forecasting manuals of Damanganga and Karjan dams were
furnished by the Water and Power Consultancy Services albeit late, inclusive of prior Bank
comments and approved by the Dam Safety PaneL However, the urgently needed third operation
and maintenance manual for the Machhu Complex by the Nadonal Insdtute of Hydrology
(Roorkee), lagged severely and was still in the drafting stage.
Proect Results
21.  The physical achievements under the project up to the revised Closing Date of April 30,
1989, following a three-year extension, are listed in Table 4, Part ml. From this, it is noted that
Kaijan, Damanganga and Machhu II dams and spillways are vitually complete; completion of
canals and branches at Damanganga and Kaijan subprojects is 93.5% and 82%, respectively. Also,



completion of the distribution network is 52.5% at Damanganga and only 22% at Karjan. Machhu
II main canal was 26% completed but there was no progress on its distribution network. On the
Ukai-Kakrapar modernization subproject, Karanj irrigation block and Surat drainage block are
complete while the Hajira and Umrath irrigation blocks are 50 to 60% complete. On the Saurashtra
Coastal Salinity Works Complex, check dams and nala plugs are virtually complete, excluding
original targets, tidal regulators and bhandaras are 65% complete, and the conservation program is
just 42% of the target. Progress on the construction of lift irrigation works is nil though irrigation
of 5,120 ha was accomplished by the farmers through their own pumps.
22.  It is in the minor network conveyance system (especially minors and water courses) and the
drainage network that the most serious delays have occurred. At Damanganga (56000 ha ±),
inspite of GOG's commitment to implement irrigation in accordance with RWS standards, the
Department reverted back to the appraisal standards of employing chak sizes of 20 ha or less (some
as small as 5-6 ha) which were too small to effectively implement the agreed RWS networks. At
Karjan, overall planning for 56,000 ha is good but the implementation is virtually at a standstill and
the work on minor networks under the 43,000 ha left bank main canal is minimal. GOG is thus
depriving the farmers of huge benefits which would have otherwise accrued to them had RWS
deliveries been made to them through accelerated completion of the distribution network. The
inordinately slow speed of rectification of the damaged and poor quality lining on Damanganga
Right Bank Main Canal and Vapi Branch Canal has been hampering the full and acceptable
operation of these canals and their distribution networks, thereby delaying utilization and benefits
of the irrigation potential.
23.   Despite resolution of all design issues by the Dam Safety Panel, the initiation of
strengthening and modifications of Machhu I dam has been abnormally delayed by GOG. Being
of vital importance to the safety of the downstream Machhu 11 dam, these dam safety works should
have been taken up for execution quickly without any reservation. It is unfortunate from a safety
point of view that GOG is delaying the strengthening of Machhu I dam and modifications of its
spillway energy dissipation component.
24.   Resettlement and rehabilitation activities have been successfully completed in the
subprojects and all oustee families are resettled. In most cases, the economies of the relocatees has
also fully stabilized. Pending cases of land ownership titles also were resolved.
25.   Notwithstanding the lack of full accomplishment of project objectives by the extended
Credit Closing Date of April 30, 1989, many positive results have, nevertheless, emanated from
the project, namely:
(a)    Except for Damanganga, RWS planning of the distribution network has proceeded
well in accordance with principles of the Agreements and subsequent Action Plans;
(b)    Warabandi-type RWS concept has started making impact in a big way but very late
in the implementation period. Farmers have started demanding RWS deliveries in
Ukai-Kakrapar modernization sub-project in ever increasing numbers following
prototype and drought-induced demonstrations of longer rotations which resulted in
increased production;
(c)    The project has progressed to a stage that, given a determined push from GOG, the
objectives of irrigation sector RWS goals could be positively accomplished in the
subprojects in the near future, except for the Damanganga command. Even at
Damanganga, if GOG constructs additional parallel water courses as recommended
and planned, and combines the adjacent small chaks into larger chaks, Warabandi
type RWS can be effectively achieved;
(d)    With the completion of subproject dams at Damanganga, Karjan and Machhu II, as



8
well as the completion of six bhandaras and four tidal regulators, the much needed
storage of water was successfully accomplished, which will be an irreplaceable
advantage for large drought-prone areas of the State in future years; and
(e)    Storage of water against the completed check dams, nala plugs, bhandaras and tidal
regulators in the Saurashtra Coastal region during the 1988 and 1989 good
monsoons, has resulted in very encouraging results in the overall status of
groundwater parameters such as higher water tables, better water quality, increases
in ground water recharge, etc. As a result thereof, salinity encroachment has
measurably declined in certain segments of the coastal belt.
26.   Direct project benefits are shown in Table 6A of Part III.
27.   Financial indicators including project cost estimates are shown in Table 5A. Project costs
have registered a steep increase, having risen from the appraisal estimate of Rs. 3,024 M to Rs.
5,741 M at the March 1989 closing date. Major cost increases are evident on all subprojects. This
is despite the fact that there were almost no physical increases in any component of the respective
subprojects except for redesign modifications of spillway configuration as a result of the 1979
Machhu II dam failure and highly intensive June 1983 storn in Saurashtra. Also the increase in
"establishment" (overhead) costs rose from about 16% of budget, as estimated at appraisal, to as
high as one-third of the budget as a result of severe drought-induced budget reduction. Continued
shortfalls in accomplishing the targets and slippages beyond the project dme schedule leading to
price inflation is another major factor. Unrealistic assessment of the project costs by the
preparation/appraisal teams consistent with the requirements for improvements and more extensive
and costlier distribution network was also a significant shortcoming - a common failing in several
similar vintage irnigation project appraisals.
28.   Revised economic rates of return have been calculated for the project as a whole and for the
individual components as well, based on the cropping pattern, updated costs and recent prices of
the commodities. Presently, the economic rate of return of the project as a whole is estimated to be
only 3.2% as compared to the appraisal estimate of 18%. The low rate of return is due to:
(a)    Enormous cost escalation in both nominal and mral terms. Individual project
components have shown a substantial cost escalation, ranging from 60% + to
110% ±; The nominal per ha cost has increased from Rs.13,999 at the time of
appraisal to about Rs.30,133 at present (115% increase). The nominal per ha cost
has increased by a greater proportion (115%) as compared to the incease in the
nominal cost of the project (80% ± increase), since the command area to be
benefitted by the project declined by 16%.
(b)    Serious delay in the accrual of benefits. At the time of appraisal it was assumed
that the benefits would start flowing from 1979-80 and full benefits would be
attained by 1992-93, but the benefits commenced only from 1987-88 and the full
benefits would hopefully be attained by 1997/98.
(c)    Decline in the command area. Total cultivable command area at the time of appraisal
was 210,022 ha, whereas it is now only 175,607 ha.
Table 6B, Part HI depicts economic indicators.
Prject Sustainability
29.   The project has not reached a free standing completion stage. Whereas, the dams are
virtually complete and the canals and branches are nearing completion (except for Machhu DI
canal), the implementation of distribution networks in accordance vvith RWS standards,
particularly the minors and field channels, is lagging. Modification of minor networks by
increasing chak sizes at Damanganga to assure agreed RWS operations has still to be initiated.



9
Also, design and construction of d!ainage networks has not taken off yet. The GOG needs to
make a determined endeavor to maximnize the progress and complete the distribution network in the
next 2 to 3 years in accordance with agreed Warabandi-type rotational water supply deliveries so
that the project objectives can be accomplished. Initiating and completing the strengthening of
Machhu I dam is urgently needed to eliminate the anticipated safety risks at the Machhu I and H
dam complex. Upon completion of these high-priority components and finalization of the pending
operational manual of Machhu dam complex, it is anticipated that the project, constructed to
generally satisfactory standards and having developed the needed infrastructure and operational
plans, will render valuable and prolonged service to the State of Gujarat. The uldmate
sustainability and reliability of the project would, of course, depend on the adequacy of operation
and maintenance but, in the context of enhanced operation and maintenance budgeting norms
sanctioned through GOG Resolution of December 20, 1988, there see.ms to be encouragement that
the project components and facilities will be sustainable over the normally accepted long life
expectancy for projects of this type.
Banlc Performnance
30.  The Bank had provided project management and 00G with technical advise throughout the
project implementation cycle as indicated below. Tables 8A and 8B show the level of staff inputs.
(a)   Project engineers at the office and field levels were given a comprehensive
background in the Warabandi-type RWS implementation concept, including the
layout and design and operation of distribution network in accordance with the
governing principles of this concept;
(b)   Improvement of construction quality was introduced through the establishment of a
Central Quality Control Unit to help improve monitoring and implementation of the
quality assurance aspects of construction;
(c)   A Technical Review Committee was established at Bank's recommendation for
reviewing the existing deficient canal lining practices and formulating new practical
guidelines on placing lining in black cotton soil reaches resulting in certain
improvements;
(d)   The Bank assisted the GOG-appointed consultant, Water and Power Consultancy
Services, in evolving the overall technical framework of operational manuals for
Damanganga and Karjan dams and reservoirs and gave detailed suggestions and
guidance to them in finalizing these manuals - the first ever model Operation and
Maintenance Manuals to be published by GOG;
(e)   The Bank missions provided result-oriented suggestions on implementation of the
Machhu dam complex, which helped in accelerating the construction of the Machhu
n earthen dam section and resulted in quality improvements of the masonry
spillway section; and
(f)    The Bank missions assisted in the resolution of many problems and technical issues
from time to time and also emphasized the streamlining and functioning of specific
provisions and requirements associated with an efficient operation and maintenance
organization.
31.  The Bank's greatest implementation deficiencies are re-emphasized for the record below.
The first was in improperly sening the size of the Chak (basic farm by farm rotational area) at about
20 hectares which was far too small to create a usable minimum stream size for rotation within the
Chak (35-60+ hectares should have been the acceptable range). Adoption of 20 ha chaks made
the operation of RWS systems impossible and other forms of scheduled operation difficult and
expensive due to the inordinate manpower requirements. In fact many chaks were built to the 8 ha
standard which was even worse. This problem also was made worse by inconsistent advice



10
during the early years of implementation which contributed to inefficient implementation, a
condition that was later abetted by poor management decisions by WRD (See paras. 34-36). The
second was in providing somnewhat inconsistent technical advice to the implementors during the
investigadve stages of evaluating and selecting suitable designs for canal lining applicadons
throughout the State where construction conditions varied widely among the subprojects. As a
result, this advice has given rise to substantive misunderstandings.
32.  Concerned at heavy slippages in the WRD's commitments under the earlier Action Plans,
specifically the April 1987 Acdon Plan, the Bank made a critical review of weaknesses and
shortcomings in implementation and formulated a second Action Plan in April 1988, in agreement
with GOG. The objective was to help GOG and its WRD organize completion of the principal
physical works on a realistic time bound schedule. All the major project components by
subprojects were included in detail in the Action Plan together with targets to be accomplished in
each quarter. Notwithstanding the shortfalls again experienced in actual accomplishment of
targets, the detailed and comprehensive April 1988 Action Plan provided a good framework for
GOG and WRD in monitoring the progress, highlighting deficiencies, and identifying critical
components needing special attention.
33.  In retrospect, the Bank appraisal team had been fairly unrealistic when it derived a time
schedule of five years for achieving physical completion of the project works and introduction of
RWS deliveries under the extensive area of 112,270 ha of Damanganga and Karjan subprojects,
as well as 103,034 ha of Ukai-Kakrapar Modernization sub-project, and the 9000 ha in Machhu n1
irrigation scheme, in addition to compltion of extensive drainage networks in each subproject.
Also, the strengthening of Machhu I dam in itself involved substantial foundation investigations
prior to undertaking the specialized strengthening operations. The overall job complex was indeed
massive in magnitude and complex in nature by Indian irrigation project standards and its
implementation was made even more difficult by vagaries encountered in the drought prone state
of Gujarat. It is against this background that the Bank's appraisal seemed to be too cursory and
not thorough enough in deternining a more realistic project implementation schedule.
Borrower Performance
34.  The subproject dams and reservoirs were virtually completed and storage ready to supply
water for irrigation. However, the implementation of distribution networks woefully lagged in
terms of their readiness to distribute water in accordance with agreed RWS procedures and criteria,
despite heavy cost overruns and a three-year extension.
35.   No doubt the occurrence of the severe floods of 1979 and 1983 (para. 27) followed by
drought-induced farnine-like conditions during the three consecutive years of 1985 to 1987
adversely affected the implementation capability of the WRD. The floods induced the costly
redesign of the spillway of every dam in Gujarat and the prolonged drought induced financial
hardships and secondment of key staff to implement the drought scarcity programs. However, it
was the persistent reluctance of the WRD over years of actual implementation in accepting the
warabandi-type RWS criteria and related procedures and in initiating the planning, layout, designs
and construction of the RWS distribution networks, including the relevant structures, which
caused much of the severe lag in completion of distribution network. The delay in implementation
of the project canals was also complicated by the inordinate time required to establish canal lining
design and construction standards, a delay to which both GOG and the Bank contributed.
Nevertheless, the abnormnal delay associated with both RWS and canal lining issues, coupled with
unclear thinking in the WRD, caused heavy shortfalls in the implementation of the distribution
works, particularly the minors and field channels. The result is apparent: dams are ready, storage
are attained in reservoirs which are ready to supply water, but distribution networks are not ready
to receive water, and most importantly, the farmners are still not receiving the benefits of dependable
deliveries.
36.  WRD's decision not to modify mninor networks at Damanganga by increasing chak sizes
through water course linkages as needed to assure agreed RWS operations, was indeed short-



11
sighted. It overlooked the fact that the annual operation and maintenance advantages accruing from
such modifications for achieving Warabandi-type RWS in terms of fewer operation and
maintenance personnel, etc., would have outweighed the cost of constructing additional parallel
water courses.
37.   Barring inidation of the construction of an additional ground bar waste weir at Machhu I
dam complex, GOG did not exhibit seriousness in implemnenting the strengthening of Machhu I
dam along formerly agreed lines and in modifying the needed energy dissipation components.
Despite the Dam Safety Panel's positive conclusion indicating the inevitability and advisability of
agreed dam strengthening, GOG was still side-steppi-g agreed decisions and considering other
studies resulting in a standstll situation on decisions that are urgently vital regarding dam safety
aspects.
38.   Notwithstanding its shortcomings, there were bright spots in the implementation
performance of WRD. Though behind schedule, the construction of on-going Karjan and
Damanganga subproject dams were completed with overall sound engineering practices. Of
particular significance is the rehabilitaton and reconstructon of Machhu II dam which was
included in the Credit through project amendment of January 7, 1986. The construction of this
large and important subproject involved the resolution of some complex technical/design issues
emanating from the failure of the original dam in 1979. Nevertheless, its reconstruction was
efficiently completd by June 1989. Accordingly, WRD engineers meticulously implemented
Bank and the Dam Safety Panel recommendations and suggestions in the construction of this sub-
project.
39.  Realizing the pressing need for proper maintenance and management of irrigation projects
through adequate operation and maintenance grants, GOG made an upward revision in the norms
for operation and maintenance budgets through its Resolution dated December 20, 1988. The
dmely revision of norms, coming on the heels of the completion of subproject dams and canals, is
a step in the right direction and lends assurance for future maintenance of the completed
components in a good state of health.
40. The attention by GOG/WRD to compliance with major covenants is detailed in Table 7, Part
IIL During implementation most covenants were in compliance or were being addressed.
However, exceptions were:
(i)    Section 2.07 (a) - GOG failed to implement the distribution network at
Damanganga in full concurrence with Warabandi-type RWS principles;
(ii)   Section 2.08 (b) - GOG was not adequately maintaining the completed roads;
(iii)   Section 2.11 - GOG has made partial compliance. Operations and Maintenance
manuals for Machhu I and II dams and reservoirs have not been prepared so far.
Moreover, only the Operations and Maintenance Plans for Damanganga and Karjan
subproject reservoirs have been prepared while the manuals for the dams have still
to be prepared;
(iv) Section 3.03 - GOG did not introduce revised water charges and complete related
studies as agreed;
41.  Project monitoring by the Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell was fairly
comprehensive. However, the monitoring and evaluation activities remained confined mostly to
data collection and progress repordng. It had still to address the project requirement of monitoring
and evaluation of improved conveyance, technologies and establishment of more efficient
operational procedures during project implementation.
42.  The credit facility for funding interstate studies and consultancies (mainly associated with
preparation of the Sardar Sarvar Nannada Project) were efficiently and fully udlized.



12
PWcgt Relationships
43.  GOG agencies and the Bank maintained very cordial relations throughout the project cycle
which enabled frank discussions and presentation of each other's view points. However, in respect
of adoption of Warabandi-type RWS, conL.ontation continued to manifest and dominate during
various Bankl mission discussions with GOG until January 1988 when GOG issued firm
instructions and guidelines to the project engineers for implementation of RWS works in
accordance with agreed standards. Regarding technical aspects, Project Management gave full
consideration to Bank observations and suggestions and took appropriate actions in fulfillment of
the relevant suggestions and recommendations. Notwithstanding some minor stresses and strains,
a strong link of professional association continued to exist between the Bank, GOG/WRD and
Project Management throughout the project implementation period, which led to the resolution of
numerous issues.
Consuldng Services
44.  A significant weakness of the project was GOG's reluctance and delayed actions in
engaging a drainage consultant to do initial drainage plans for Damanganga, Karjan and Machhu II
command areas. It was only at the latter stages of project implementation that GOG initiated steps
to hire a joint local and international consultant to undertake drainage studies; however, it ultimately
rejected this proposal as being too expensive and opted to hire a local consultants. This work was
not fully defined, nor was it completed at closing.
45.  Provision of an operation and maintenance plan (manual) on the Machhu Dam Complex fell
far short of expectations following the indigenous award of consultancy services contract for such
purpose. The consultant was not able to furnish a first draft of the anticipated manual within the
contract period and prior to closing date.
46.  A public sector (state) engineering research institution was used to conduct various
hydraulic modelling studies and other engineering test activities. These were canied out
objectively and efficiently.
47.   Virtually, the construction was carried out by private contractors except for both the left and
right bank earthen non-overflow sections of Machhu II dam complex which were constructed
trough use of departmental equipment and labor. Speedy and high quality construction was
achieved on this important component. Some foundation invesdgation/exploradon work at Machhu
I dam was also done through departmental drilling equipment. In addition, fabrication of all the
twenty radial gates for the additional spillway of Machhu II dam was done Departmentally.
Project Documnention and Data
48.  The legal documents were found to be appropriate and adequate. The staff appraisal report
provided a broad-based coverage of all subproject components and a good guide to project
development.
49.   Comprehensive documentation, data collection, monitoring and implementation of the sub-
projects (located as they are in distincdy different and widely spread areas of Gujarat State) could
have been achieved and put to use if a computer-based MIS system had been introduced. Such
computerized project monitoring would have also served as a reminder and "conscience keeper" on
the cost and time overruns of the major components of the project and, therefore, could have
helped in initiating appropriate correcdve acdons at proper times.



13
PART II: POJECT REVIEW       OM BORROWERS PERSfflVE
COMMENTS ON PART I
1.   In para. 10 of Part 1, the emphasis for delay and incomplete project on over-estimation at
appraisal for human and financial resources is partly correct. The project was hampered due to non
starting of Heran sub-project and late decision for inclusion of Machhu complex sub-project. This
in reality upset the estimation of the human financial resources.
2.   Para. 13 of Part I describes the useful critique and shortcomings in project concept and
implementation. Regarding para. 13 (a), it may be stated that implementation of warabandi type
RWS, adopting larger chaks (30-60) ha, has been adopted in Ukai-Kakrapar modemization and
Karjan sub-projects; whereas in case of Machhu-II project, planning of the distibution system for
implementation of warabandi type RWS, adopting larger chaks (30-60 ha), is done. In case of
Damanganga sub-project, this could not be done as much of the distribution system had been
executed adopting chak size of 20 ha, as defined in the project estimate. The concept c f Warabandi
type RWS adopting lager chaks was really clearly defined, only after October 1987, d uing the
visit of World Bank supervision mission at that time. GOG then issued a circular em'"lying this
concept in January 1988 and after that time the implementation of Warabandi type RWS got an
accelerated start. Unfortun' tely the modification for switchover to Warabandi type RWS adopting
larger chak (30-60 ha) in .Ase of Dananganga was costing very high - to the tune of Rs. 14 to
Rs. 15 crores, which GOG considered prohibitive, looking to the location of the subproject in the
rainfed terrain.
3 .   GOG feels that had there been no delay in the execution of Heran sub-project and had there
been a clear concept of RWS, as envisaged in Cr. 1496-IN (signed in June 1984), right from the
beginning of the project, the implementation schedule of five years would have been quite
sufficient. The time lag that may crop up due to natural calamity, as described in para. 13 (f),
would have only to be compensated. Similarly the capability of GOG to complete required
implementation of distribution network in accordance with RWS principle within the time frame of
five years had been jeopardized because of non-specific definition of RWS principle in -'e project
agreemnent and also due to various experiments carried out by the World Bank officials dunng this
period, which confused GOG and was responsible for non-implementation of RWS principles.
4.   Poect Implmntadon. The implementation of project had slippages due to the occurrence
of both unforeseen and unprecedented floods and droughts during the imnplementation period. This
resulted in State-wide redesigns of spillways at all dams due to unprecedented floods and diversion
of state finances and departmental staff to scarcity works due to drought. Besides these,
implementation was also affeed due to non-starting of Heran sub-project and inclusion of
Machhu sub-project at a later stage.
5.    Statement in para. 18 of Part I is misleading. In fact the concept of RWS was more
vigorously specified and understood only after the Bank supervision mission of October 1987.
Thmediately themafter, GOG issued a circular in January 1988 giving guidelines for introduction
ot i'WS in various subprojects. Sensing the need for modifying the existing Irrigadon Act, the
subsequent mission had been infomied about the needed requirement and GOG started the framing
of draft for the new Act. At the same time, GOG assured that in the absence of legal framework for
applicaton of RWS principles, necessary rules will be framed for vigorous applications of RWS
pinciples tll the new Act will come into force. At present, the draft bill is introduced in the
Legisladive Assembly.
6.   In para 19 of Part I, it has been stated that the state of disrepair of large number of lined
reaches in Damanganga canal system presented an unfortunate example of poor quality
construction. GOG feels that this is not true as can be seen from the vari';us mission reports. GOG



14
feels that the state of disrepair is due to non-attendance of repairs in time, which may be due to
shortage of funds for the purpose. The deformadion in the canal lining may be due to non-use of
the canal system for considerably long period and canal lining has been subjected to high
temperature difference of summer and winter seasons.
7.    Pject Results. The progress on construcdon of lift irrigation works could not be achieved
because of many alternatives put forth by various supervision missions, as also the farmers'
unwiUlingness to take over the system on their own for operation and maintenance purpose.
8.   The design issues resolved by the Dam Safety Panel to inidate the strengthening and
modification of Machhu I dam involve virtual brealdng of many components of the existing dam.
GOG feels that since the existing dam had withstood the severe floods of 1979, the breaking.of
components did not seem necessary. The GOG has undertaken deep study by performing model
studies, stress analysis, examining cracks in the body of the dam and such other studies.
However, the advice of World Bank mission on all these design issues were studied at the highest
level of Secretary, WRD and Secretary, Command Area Development. The following works
suggested by the Darn Safety Panel would be executed as decideC 'inally:
(a)    Pre-stressing of masonry dam to be done in unsafe portion of block Nos.3 to 11,
i.e. from Chainage 119.00 mm to 527.0 m with adjoining transition length.
(b)   Earth dam, existing non-overflow section and the existing approach bridge for the
Right Bank Main Canal to be raised as per free-board requirement without raising
Of head regulator.
(c)    Necessay protection to top of head regulator well to be done.
(d)   Additional ground bar waste weir of 200 meters length on left flank to be completed
by June 1990.
(e)    Necessary protective remedial measures for canal and energy dissipation
arrangements would be taken as and when found necessary in future.
However, GOG has, from time to time, assured the Bank that all appropriate actions shall be
considered for safety of Machhu I dam and the letter to this effect has been addressed to Mr. G.W.
Fauss of World Bank by Secretary, Command Area Development vide D.O. No. IPM- 1088-1157
(26) dated 23.1.89.
9.    Bank Performance. It has been stated in para. 32 of Part I that the Bank made a critical
review of weaknesses and shortcomings in implementadon and formulated an Action Plan in April
1988 in agreement with GOG. The targets of Action Plan in April 1988 could not be achieved
inspite of the sincere efforts put in by GOG officers because of the financial constraint caused due
to previous three consecutive drought years in this financial year also. Had there been given one
more year's extension beyond Arril 1989, the project as a whole could have achieved results better
than what have been achieved at the present closure of the Credit, i.e. April 1989.
10.  Consulting Services. Ithas been stated in para. 44 that GOG initiated steps to hire Core
Consultant, Ahmedabad, as drainage consultant at the later stage of implementation for preparing
drainage plans of the subprojects. The proposal was sent to New Delhi Office in the early part of
February 1989. But concurrence to proposal could not be given because of the insistence on
preparing the proposal in the prescribed format. Had this proposal been given concurrence in
March 1989, subject to preparation of the documents in the prescribed format, the drainage plans
for Darnanganga, Karjan & Machhu 1I sub-projects could have been prepared within the extended
time period beyond April 30, 1989. Unfortunately, the Government of Gujarat could not frame the
proposal in the prescribed format in time, i.e. before April 30, 1989. The proposal could not get
the required concurrence of the World Bank before the Closing Date and hence Govemment of
Gujarat could not get drainage plans for Damanganga Kaijan and Machhu II command area.



15
EVALUATION OF WQ=uf BANK'S PERF-ORMANCE
11,  Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1011-IN) was started from June 27, 1980 and the first
supervision mission visited the project in January 1981. The projectcompletionl date was April 30,
1989. The last mission visited the project in February 1989. In all, there were about 20 supervision
tnissions comprising of members of various disciplines ranging from economics to sociology.
Initially the project started with good zeal with both World Bank and Government of Gujarat.
Somehow or the other, the progress on the project drifted from good to bad even though the size of
the supervision mission was increased from 2 to 3 members initially to 8 members maximum. The
progress on the project was hampered from 1985 to 1986 till the end of the project because of three
consecutive drought years prevailing in Gujarat. This event of drought occurrence was
unprecedented in the history of Gujarat. Because of the severity of the consecutive droughts, the
finance of the state was largely stra.ned which resulted in drastic cuts in the budgetary provisions
for this project. During the evaluation and implementation of the project and with the increase of
the members of the supervision missions, the problems of the project were aggravated and the
supervision missions, even though increased in size, could not show the solution of the problems
encountered by the Government of Gujarat in this project. This can be seen from Table 8B in
which the performance ratings were given. The various missions could not show the solution of
the problems encountered by the Government of Gujarat on account of severe drought situation
faced by tle people of Gujarat. In fact the evaluation and implementation of the project rest with
both the agencies, namely the Govemment of Gujarat and the World 13ank, the Govemment of
Gujarat in the executive position and the World Bank in supervisory position. The World Bank
could have help the Govemment of Gujarat by suggesting solutions to various major problems, as
noted by various supervision missions, instead of simply passing comments and putting the finger
on the problems. Though the Government of Gujarat hes responsibility for solving the problems
shown by the supervision mission, the World Bank could have acted in riding capacity in the
interest of project implementation.
12. Initially the project agreement and agreed minutes provided the guidelines for developing
the command for the introduction of RWS. These guidelines were followed in various subprojects
till the project agreement for Credit 1496-IN was implemented from June 1984, wherein the
principle of RWS has been clearly defined. Till then the concept of RWS was followed as per the
guidelines given in the agreed minutes. With the clear concept of RWS, as defined in Gujarat
Medium Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1496-IN), Government of Gujarat issued guidelines in January
1988. With the introduction of this concept of RWS, the design of distribution system of various
subprojects, as prepared and implemented on the previous guidelines as defined in Cr.101 1-IN,
has to be reviewed and the modifications required have to be implemented. The World Bank did
advise, through an Action Plan prepared in April 1988, for such a review which the Government
has undertaken promptly. While the modifications in case of Karjan subproject were easy to
implement, the progress could not be achieved due to land acquisition problems. In case of
Damanganga subproject, modifications were difficult to be implemented because of hilly terrain of
the command area. These modifications were to be done at exorbitant cost due to hilly track in the
region to which the Government of Gujarat was not in favor of introducing rigid type of RWS, but
alternative arrangement to adopt RWS to suit this region was made. The difference was only that
the World Bank insisted on automatic operation of the outlet, the GOG desired to provide outlet
regulated by chowkidars in some of the difficult cases. It was fulfilling the agreement with the
Bank, the method was most suitable for such type of region. The Bank should have been flexible
to accept it and help Government of Gujarat by clearly defining the disbursement policy for such
modifications, especially where the clear concept is specified at a latter stage and much work had
been done as per old concept, necessitating modification.
13.  The Gujarat Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1011-IN) was initiated with effective date as June
1980. At that time, the project was consisting of sub-projects: (1) Damanganga; (2) Heran; (3)
1 Extended Project Completion Date



16
Karjan; (4) Ukai-Kakrapar (Modemization); and (5) Saurashtra Coastal Development Scheme.
During the course of implementation it was found that Heran subproject could not be started
because of growing opposition from the people of surrounding areas. The Government of Gujarat
then requested the World Bank for exclusion of the Heran subproject and inclusion of Machhu
subproject. This proposal was readily accepted by the Bank. This flexible approach of the World
Bank is commendable. However, during the course of progress of the project, Government of
Gujarat suggested certain additional schemes for salinity control like Balmba, Bandhara, Bodaki,
Boghat and Rukmavati Tidal Regulators, for inclusion in the project. But the World Bank rejected
the suggestion. It is felt that principles fo- which the salinity ingress works were taken in this
project should be given more weight rather than other factors such as location, as has been
considered in the rejection of the Government of Gujarat's proposal.
14.  Initially, the disbursement rate for the Machhu subproject was 45% instead of 70%, as
admissible for other subprojects of Cr. 101l -IN. However, on the request of Government of
Gujarat, the World Bank allowed the disbursement rate of 70% for the Machhu subproject also.
This approach of World Bank is also commendable.
15.   The closure of the credit by the Bank by 30.4.1989 is abrupt and in doing so the Bank has
simply obsei ved their rules rigidly. About 90% of the credit has been utilized by the Govemment
of Gujarat leaving only 10% unused. This has happened not on account of the implementation
problems but on account of the unforeseen and unprecedented drought situations (prevailing from
1984 to 1987), which forced the government to mobilize the limited resources towards combatting
the drought effect. The Bank should have considered prevailing situation in Gujarat and allowed
the Credit to continue till its full utilization. This could have given the ber.efits, as described in the
project agreement, to the people of Gujarat.
16.   During implementation and evaluation of the project, the Bank supervision mission's
insistence for introducing Warabandi type RWS, as defined in Schedule 4 of the Agreement
(Cr. 1496-IN), is noteworthy. It is because of this insistence that GOG judged the inherent
advantage of the economical usage of water in this system and issued guidelines for introducing
this type of water management system, not only for World Bank-aided sub-projects but also to be
followed for all irrigation projects of the State. Similarly, due to the continued insistence by
supervision mission regarding resettlement and rehabilitation activities in the direction of regaining
standard of living comparable to/or better than pre-location situation of oustees, the Government of
Gujarat is continuously improving its Resettlement and Rehabilitation policy with the ultimate goal
of regaining a standard of living comparable to/or better than the pre-location situation of oustees.
The more and more aw areness of providing alternative means of livelihood to the oustees has now
percolated right up to the lower administration.
17.   On the suggestion of the World Bank, the concept of block by block development to
construct all the works in the areas to be served is introduced.
18.   On the suggestion of World Bank, the Reservoir Operation Manuals are prepared for
Karjan and Damanganga subprojects through consultants. For Machhu, it is under preparation.
19.   The World Bank have also supplied various articles and literatures of high technical value
from the experience gained throughout the world regarding improved standard and quality of
works. This has helped GOG to improve upon the quality of works.
Lessons Learnt
20.   When project is not progresoing, as envisaged in the Agreement, it is necessary to have
more interaction between the Bank ana Borrower for finding out ways and means to bring the
progress of the project in tune with the Agreement.



17
21.   Greater vigilance and more time is needed when a particular provision of the Agreement is
modified during the implementation period. Moreover, modifications necessitated due to
changeover should be suitably compensated.
22.   All natural calamities encountered by the borrower, the Bank should cor 'der in
compensating such perils of calamnity by relaxing Bank rules and regulations.
EVALUATION OF BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23.   During the implementation and evaluation of the project, Govemment of Gujarat tried to
provide budgetary allocation, as per requirements, to accelerate the project for each subproject
which can be seen from Statement I. However, due .o non-starting of the Heran subproject and
due to the revision ox hydrology on account of the storm of 1983, the implementation schedule had
been upset. The desigv' of many components of the subprojects had to be modified in the year 1984-
85. The Government of Gujarat suggested to include the work of rehabilitation of Machhu II dan
instead of Heran subproject, which suggestion was accepted by the World Bank in January 1986
towards the end of the 5-year time slice of the Credit (which started in June 1980). Unfortunately,
the Government of Gujarat was faced with severe drought for three consecutive years which upset
the schedule of working of the Department. This in turn resulted in non-utilization of the Bank
Credit fully though the Government of Gujarat had established necessary infrastructure for all the
sub-projects to expedil.e works on various components of the subprojects right from the beginning
of the project.
24.   The Government of Gujarat has maintained the Dam Review Panel, composed of
specialists, all throughout the project implementation. The Panel has visited frequently various
subprojects for reviewing and evaluating of data, design and construction practices.
25.   The Government of Gujarat has also established Command Area Development Authority
(CADA) Wing for water management in the WRD which at present looks after inanagement of
irrigation water, arranges for various activities required for introduction of Rotational Water
Supply not only the World Bank aided projects but also in other projects as well. Four Area
Development Commissioner offices have been established for operating and maintaining CADA
activities. It is felt that the work of these f^ur offices will speak in near future.
26.   The Government of Gujarat has also established Water and Land Management Institute
(WALMI) which has up until now conducted various courses, short-term as well as long-terrn and
a number of officers, subordinate staff and farmners have been trained. This institute has now
become the focal point of the Department for carrying out new introductions like RWS, land
preparation, etc.
27.   The standard design of distribution network system has been adopted as per the criteria
given by the World Bank as per the Project Agreement. The socio-economic studies for the
subprojects have also been carried out through a Consultant.
28.   The command areas of the subprojects are systematically classified for irigability.
Similarly, the collection of hydrological data from the rivers, feeding the project, is continued,
utilizing scientific equipment. The data are now evaluated more rationally.
29.   Operation and maintenance plans for reservoir operation and flood forecasting for
Damanganga and Karjan have been prepared and that for Machhu complex is under preparation.
30.   The people rffected by submergence of the subprojects have been resettled adequately as
per the provision of Government Resolution dated June 11, 1979. Most of the oustees, in case of
Karjan, have been given replacement of land by arranging settlement between the land owners and
the oustees. In case of Damanganga oustees, who have not opted for replacement of land, they
have been given cash compensation and many oustees were given all facilities in their new



18
settlement as far as practicable. Mostly, all the oustees are resettled and in most cases their
economy had stabilized and they now live better.
31.   The Government of Gujarat has continued the remaining works of these irrigation projects
even after the completion of the Credit, adopting the same standard as has been followed during the
Credit period. For this purpose, the Government of Gujarat will provide necessary budgetary
support for early completion of the subprojects.
32.   Lessons Learnt: Overall, the project has been successful. However, the project
experienced following problems during implementation:
(a)   The acquisition of land for ihe construction of main canals and distributary system
was delayed because of lengthy land acquisition procedures.
(b)   Following the local competitive bidding procedures, even for works which were
scattered and which could be done with small agencies, delayed the implementation
of minor distribution networks.
(c)   Considerable delay has been noticed in acceptance of any proposal because of
procedural requirement.
(d)   Some complications are also experienced in tendering under local competitive
bidding procedures. The conventional B 1, B2/A 1, A2 type tenders are found
su.table as the time limit for inviting tenders is less.
33.   Arbitration: According to provision under clauses nos.51 and 52, the disputes arising
between the contractors and the government, when not settled in specified time, are required to be
referred to "Arbitration". Provisions of these clauses have created a number of arbitration cases.
The provisions under clauses 51 and 52 are such that they appear to be interdependent. However,
here in legal terms, both these clauses are treated independent. This interpretation has made the
contractors to go for arbitration even for minor disputes which can be solved by the departmental
officer easily. Moreover, arbitration is wide open for all types of issues as these clauses do not
limit the issues. As a consequence of these clauses, the GOG has to pay huge compensation. Also
the works have suffered. Experience of GOG suggests that the clause nos. 51 and 52 should be
modified for restraining the contractors from going to arbitration on flimsy issues and without
obtaining in writing the disagreement from the concerned government officers. GOG's suggestions
in this regard are as under:
(a)   The contractor is required to provide written evidence to the government officer in
support of his issues/claims to which the Superintending Engineer may reply within
30 days. In case the contractor is not satisfied with the decision of the
Superintending Engineer and evidences given are not accepted, he may again appeal
to the Chief Engineer within specified time with all supporting evidences and
reasons for disagreements with the decision of the Superintending Engineer. The
Chief Engineer may give his decision within a specified time. Even if the contractor
does not agree with the decision of the Chief Engineer, he may then show intention
to refer the issue to sole arbitrator. The issues regarding excess works, extra
additional rate, which can generally be agreed to mutually, should be outside the
scope of arbitration.
(b)   For delay in any payment/payments, after arbitration or by court decree, some sort
of provision regarding rate of interest shall be specified in the clause itself.
(c)   T{he interdependency of these two clauses shall be made more specific by either
making one clause from the two clauses or suitably modifying clause no.52.



19
34.   Difficulties Experienced
(a)   Great difficulties are experienced in fixing the rates mutually agreed to by applying
clause nos.31 & 32 of local competitive bidding tenders as these clauses do not
specify the manner in which the new rates are to be arrived at. These clauses are
required to be more specific.
(b)   It is experienced that the contractors do not agree with the provisions in the tender
for the price escalation as the present provision is insufficient to cope up with the
inflation trend in the country. Some sort of workable formula shall be found out
and provided in the tenders.
EFFECTIVENESS OF RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BANK AND BORROWER
35.   During evaluation and implementation of the project, the relationship between the Bank and
the Government of Gujarat was cordial. The recommendations made by the Bank during the
supervision mission were readily complied to. The Bank staff were cooperadve whenever they
were approached for clarification and guidance.
36.   During the implementation of the project from May 1980 onwards, it was experienced that
Heran subproject could not start because of unavoidable reasons. The start of this project was
delayed for about 4 years and as a result, the implementation was hampered and Credit could not
be utilized to the extent required. In order to utilize the Credit usefully, GOG suggested to drop the
Heran sub-project and to include Machhu complex. It may be put on record that this proposal was
readily accepted by the Bank and credit e:xtended by 3 more years. In the Agreement letter for
inclusion of Machhu complex, the disbursement percentage for civil works was specified as 45%
against 70% for civil works in case of ou1)er subprojects. This discrepancy was pointed out and
Bank requested to raise the disbursemre,;. percentage to 70%. This was also agreed to by the Bank.
Due to the three consecutive drought vezas, the Credit could not be utilized during the extended
period of three years. The Credit was not utilized fully with the result that GOG had to request the
Bank for a further extension of two ye;,ius. The Bank, however, granted extension of one vear.
37.   After the signing of the Agreemer'. the designs of spillways were required to be modified
in view of the unprecedented storns in 19  and 1983. This fact was put before the Bank and the
Bank readily agreed to such modification ahii advised GOG to take the guidance from the Dam
Safety Panel.



20
STATEMENT I
Gujarat Irrigation H Project (Cr.101 1-IN)
Statement showing budget allocation and total expenditure
incurred and disbursement released by World Bank
Rs. in Million
Year              Budget     Programme   Actual       Disbursement Released
Rs.M.        as per    Expend.    US$ M          Rs.M.
SAR       Rs.M.
Before 5/80          -             -      558.8         -
1980-81          347.70         538.00    280.1        0.94          7.9
1981-82          384.50         761.00    366.6       13.82        116.1
1982-83          531.50         755.00    475.5      27.47         212.6
1983-84          712.30         620.00    525.8      20.83        214.3
1984-85          687.00         349.00    578.0      27.04         316.5
1985-86          385.50            -      427.2       22.71        279.0
1986-87          441.10            -      460.4       16.01        196.2
1987-88          380.00            -      385.1       11.68        150.6
1988-89          405.00            -      358.2       11.05        158.5
1989-90          470.50            -      211.10       7.71        127.3
(upto 10/89)



21
PART III    STATISTICAL TABLES
GOG confirm the adequacy and accuracy of
information contained in Statistical Tables,
which have been updated wherever considered
relevant,  through  appropriate  incorporation  of
inputs provided by GOG.



TARL I
Page I of 2
INDIA
GUJARAT IRRIGATION II PROJECr
{Credit 101 1-m
Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose              Date of           Status                 Conmments
Approval
1.  Credit 13-IN:    It was the Bank's first Credit for    1961    Infonnation    The Shetrunji project failed to achieve its
Shetrunji      inigation development in India                 not readily     agnicultural potential due to an inadequate
Irrigation     which financed the construction                available.     irrigation infrastructre and weak
Project        of Shetrunji's canal system.                                   agricultural supporting services.
(US$ 4.5 M)                                                                                                           N
2.  Credit 176-IN:   To expand and stabilize       February 1970   Project         Full credit was disbursed. There was a
Kadana         agricultural production in rain-               completed in    delay of three years in comEpletion due to
Inrigation     deficient areas; to complete                   1979.          two extreme floods. The project achieved
Project        irrigation facilities where past                               its objectives and the agricultural support
(US$ 35M)      investments had brought only                                  services were greatly strengthened.
partial realization of agricultural                           Kadana area is now one of the most
potential and to complete an on-                              advanced farming areas in India.
going irrigation scheme that had
been under construction since
1948.
3.  Credit 191-IN:   To support the development of  1970           The Credit     Objectives were largely achieved.
Gujarat        ground water in the State through              closed.
Agricultural   the construction of 41,000 wells
Credit Project   and about 450 tubewells and
(US$ 35M).    installation of about 45000
pumpsets.



TABlLE1
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
GUJARAT IRRIGATlON II PROJECT
(Credit 1011-IN)
Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Tide              Puwpose               Date of           Status                 Comments
Approval
4.  Credit 808-IN:   To promote investments in      May 1978        Closed on      Of the 22 new MIPs, only one sub-
Gujarat Medium  mediwn sized iigation projects                June 30,        project (Panam) was operational in 1984
Irrigation     (MIPs) thmugh: financing the                    1984.The       and that too was having problems. The
Project        construction of 22 medium                      project was     six modernization subprojects were still
irrigation projects, the                       fully disbursed.  in the various stages of construction at the
modernization of 6 projects                                    Credit Closing Date. Hence the benefits
already in operadon, the                                       would only accrue under the follow-up
establishment of a network of                                 project when completed.
automatic discharge meassuring
staions and providing technical
services needed for monitoring
and evaluation studies.
S. Credit 1496-IN    To complete: the on-going      June 1984      The Credit,     Progress on dams, spillways and
Gujarat        medium irrigation subprojects                  closing date    distribution system is satisfactory.
Medium         including dams, lined canals and               was extended    Remedies have been agreed to improve
Irigation      distribution network; the                      to December     dam safety. Compliance with mnajor
Project           nizton of 6 subprojects                     31, 1991.       covenants is satisfactory except for water
(SDR 164.3 M    andinoduction of rotational                   However it      charges. Government has however
US$ 172.0 M    water supply management system                 would require   increased operation and maintenance
equivalent).    in the Project Aea.                           one more year   funding norms. Some incomplete
for physical   components of the closed Gujarat Major
completion of   Irrigation Project (Cr. 101 1-IN) have
the project    now been included in this project.
components.



24
ble 2
INDIA
GUJARAT IRRGATION II PROJECI
(Cr.101 1-IN)
PrXt Tinne Table
Item               Date Planned     Date Revised     Date Actual
Identification                not available    not available     not available
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                   not available    not available     not available
Appraisal Mission             not available    not available     Sept., 1979
Loan/Credit Negotiations      not available    not available     March, 1980
Board Approval                not available    not available    Apr.29, 1980
Credit Signatures             not available    not available     May 12, 1980
Credit Effectiveness          August 12, 1980   June 27, 1980   June 27, 1980
Credit Completion             Apr.30, 1985     Oct.31, 1989      Oct.31, 1989
redit Closing                 Apr.30, 1986     Apr.30, 1989     Apr.30, 19891/
l/ The Credit closed on April 30, 1989.



25
Tabe 3
GUJARAT fQGA11ON M         PRQOEJ
(CREDrr 1011-M
Bank FY/                CQuMdative Disbursements                   % Acual to
Semnester         Appxaisal    Revised    Revised     Actuw        SARor
Projetion    Projction    Pjroection            Revised
(4J88)     (2089)                  Projection
* (US$ M)
1981   1st            -                                -
2nd            5                               10.0           200
1982   Ist           18                               12.3            70
2nd           35                               21.4            60
1983   1st           56                               29.8            53
2nd           79                               49.4            62
1984   1st          102                               54.6            53
2nd          124                               76.3            61
1985   Ist          145                               82.8            57
2nd          164                              100.5            61
1986   Ist          175                              107.1            61
2nd                                           120.4
1987   1st                                           123.6
2nd                                           125.8
3rd                                           128.8
4th                        133.2              133.2           100
1988   1st                        135.0              135.3           100
2nd                       139.0               138.2            99
3rd                       145.5               140.5            90
4th                        152.0              144.4            95
1989   1st                        154.0              146.8            95
2nd                       158.0               147.3            93
3rd                                 150.0    151.5            101
4th(AptlV - June '89)               154.0    154.0            100
1990   1st                                 155.0    156.4            101
2nd21                               156.3    1S9.3V2
1J/ Disbursement on Credit Closing De of April 30,1989 -S 151.84 M.
2/ Fuua disburement mae m November 15,99.



TabkA
Page I of 4
INDIA
GUIARAT IRRIGATION II PROIECI
(CR.101 1-IN)
Jj&icator          Unit    Total       Appraisal     Project    Revised    Total Actual   Completion
Estimate                Estimate   Achievement      (%)
Pre-Project              (Project)    (04/89)
L DAMANGANGA
Dmn                  %        100         65            35         35         99             99
Canals & Banches     km      98.3         60.4         37.9        37.9       91.9           93.5
Distributaiy Service
Areas               ha      56070        0            56070       56070      29466 2        52.5
MainDranageSystem   %         100         0             100        100        0              0
Command Area Roads  km        134         0             134        134        105            78.3
IL KARJAN
Dam                  %        100         25           75          75         99.8           99.8
Canals & BrAnhes     km      70.5         5.6          64.9        63.6       57.0           82
Distributary Service
Areas               ha      56200        0            56200       56200      12300          22
Main Drainage system   %      100         0             100        100        0              0
Command Area Roads  km        198         0             198        187        173            92



Table 4
Page 2 of 4
Indicator          Unit    Total   Appraisal      Project    Revised     Total Actual   Completion
Estimate               Estimate    Achievement        (%)
Pre-Project             (Project)     (04/89)
III. UKAI KAKRAPAR MODERNIZATION SCHEME
Karanj Distributary  ha      9820        0          9820        8770         8770         100
Hajira Branch        ha      28200       0          28200       28200        14210         50
Umrath Branch        ha       14000      0          14000        13009       12743         60
Surat Branch Drainage  ha    57450       0          57450       57450        57450        100
Command Area Roads  kan       188        0          188          188         170          90
Coastal Saline Land  ha                                          1990        0           0
IV. SAURASHTRA COASTAL DEVELOPMENT SCHEME
Irrigation           ha      25000       0          25000        13685       NllY        Nil
Conservafion         ha       10000      0          10000       10000        4168        41.6
Tidal Regulators     no.     4           0          4           5 (100%)    65%          65
Bhandaras            no.9    9           9          9 (100o)    9 (100%)    65%          65
Check Dams           no.      150        0          150         277          237         85
Storage Reservoir
Scheme              no.      1          0          1 (100%)    1 (100%)    100          100
Nalla Plugs          no.      1000       0          1000        2500         2452        98
V. MACHHU I DAM I/ STRENGTHENING AND MACHHU II DAM REHABILITATION
(A) Machhu I Dam, Strengthening
(a) Additional Spillway
i) Excavation     m3                                   95512       85000        89



Table 4
Page 3 of 4
Indicator           Unit    Total   Appraisal     Project    Revised      Total Acua    Completom
Estimate               Estimate     Achievement        (%)
Pre-Project             (Projet)       (04/89)
ii) Masonry    m3                                           4400       330             8
iii) Concrete   m3                                          1460        65             4.4
(b) Masomy Dam & Main Spillway
i) Dismantling of
masonry    m3                                            5398        0              0
ii) Raising of OF &
NOF blocks
Masonry   m3                                              10905      0              0
Concrete   m3                                            366         0              0
(c) Modification of Spillway Apron
Rock Excavation    m3                                            72645      0              0
CoDnceing         mn3                                            10756      0              0
(d) Prestressing the Dam
Drilling holes,
installation of cables &
grouting          No.of cables                                  177         0              0
(e) Raising and strengthen-
ing of Earth Dam
Sections          m3                                            38976       22000          56



Tabe 4
Page 4 of 4
Indicator          Unit    Total   Appraisal    Project    Revised      Total Acual   Completion
Estimate               Esfimate    Achievement       (%)
Pre-Project             (Project)    (04/89)
(B) Machhu II Dam
i) Earth Dams       m3                                           2,726,000  2,785,000      100
ii) Masonry Dam & Spillway
Masomy            m3                                            79345      79180         99.8
Concrete           m3                                           45877      45200          98.5
Spillway Bridge    Span                                         20 spans   20             100
iii) Radial Gates
Fabrication      m.t.                                          1375       1375          100
Erection          no.                                         20 gates    18            90
VI. MACHHU II IRIGATION SYSTE:M
Main Canal          km                                            15.09      3.90          26
Distribution        ha                                           9000       0              0
I/ Heran Project was deleted from the Credit and replaced with Machhu I Dam Strengthening and Machhu n1 Dam rehabilitation and
irrigation system, on January 7, 1986.
v  Distribution network requires combining of chaks to achieve larger chak sizes (25-60 ha) which necessitate water courses linkages
These have been planned but not implemented by GOG. Such linkages are not likely to be completed, thereby obviating full
implementation of agreed RWS.
yf Lift Irrigation Schemes have not been executed by GOG so far. Irrigation done in 5120 ha through private pumps by the farmers.



TABLE SA
Page 1 of 2
GUJARAT IRRIGATION IT PROJECT
(Credit 101 l-IN)
Projct Costs
Item                  Appraisal Estimate   Appraisal Estimate    Revised   Pre-project  Revised  Actual       Balance
Local FE  Total    Local FE       Total Estimate    Cost      Project Cost  Expenditure    Estimated
(3/89)                Excluding    at 4/89   Expenditure at
Pre-project   (Credit      4/89
Cost      Closing)
(US$ M)              (Rs M)         (Rs M) 1/   (Rs M)     (Rs M)      (Rs M)    (Rs M) (USSM
Damanganga           43.9  9.2  53.1    368.7  77.3   446.0  1695.25     420.90      1274.35     1022.00   252.35 16.28
Karjan               49.i 12.3  61.4    412.4 103.3  515.7  1934.30       105.80     1828.50     1400.60   427.90 27.60 o
Heran 2/             33.3  8.4  41.7    279.7  70.6  350.3  59.40 Machhu I 2/          59.40        5.50    53.90  3.48
366.45 & l Complex      366.45     229.70    136.75  8.82
66.20 Heran road        66.20      67.90   (-) 1.70 (-)0.1 I
Ukai-Kakrapar        26.7  4.7  31.4    224.3  39.5  263.8   677.85        6.70       671.15      552.70    118.45  7.64
Modernisation
Savrashtra           20.7  6.5  27.2    173.9  54.6  228.5   791.20       25.40       765.80     464.70   301.10 19.42
Coastal development
Training Institute    3.0  0.8   3.8      25.2  6.7    31.9)
Oper. Improvements    2.0  0.4   2.4      16.8  3.3    20.1)  150.15        -         150.15      111.00    39.15  2.52
Monitoring & Eval.     1.7  0.1   1.8     14.3  0.8    15.1)
Engineering & Admn   33.9  Q     33.9    284. 8 O      284.8    4/
BASE COST          214.3 42.4  256.7   1800.1 356.1  2156.2  5740.80   558.80      5182.00    3854.10   1327.90 85.65



TABLE SA
Page 2 of 2
Item                   Appraisal Esdmate    Appraisal Estimate    Revised   Pre-project  Revised    Actual    Balance Estimated
Local FE   Total    Local  FE   Total  Estimate    Cost         Project Cost Expenditure  Expenditure at
(3/89)                Excluding    at 4/89         4/89
Pre-project   (Credit
Cost      Closing)
(USS M)               (Rs. M)                   (Rs.M) J1      (Rs M)    (Rs.M)    (Rs.M) (US$M)
Physical Contingency   23.3  5.7   29.0    195.8  47.9  243.7
Expected Price         54.0  10.3  64.3    453.5  86.6  540.1       -         -           -           -
Contingency
Gujarat Project Cost  229    MA   350.    2449.4 490.  2940.0
Preparation of future  9.4  0.6   10.0       33.6  50.4   84.0      -         -           -           -           -      -
Irrigation Poejcts
Total PROJECT         301.0 59.0  360.0   2483.0 531.0 3024.0   5740.80  558.80        5182.00    3854.10    1327.90  85.65
COST                            (US$M)                  (Rs.M)                         (Rs M)      (Rs.M)    (RsM)  (US$M)
11   1 US = Rs.8.40
21   Heran Project was substituted with Machhu I dam strengthening and Machhu n1 dam rehabilitation and irrigation system.
&    1 US$ = Rs.15.50
A1   Engieering and Adminisation components included in the subproject components.



32
TAli5.
Page 1 of 2
GUJARAT IRRIGATION II PROJECr
(Cmrdit 101 I-IN}
Poect Fiancing
Source                                        Planned in     Actual (4/89)
Credit Agreement
(USS'000}      (USS 0001
A. IDA Credit Categgoies
i) Parts A through C ofthe Project as
per schedule 2 of the Development
Cedit Ageement
a. CivilWorks I/                      125,000          127,056
b. Vehiclesandequipment                28,000           11,169
ii)  Parts D through F of the Project
(Establishment and initial operation
Of training institute for land and
water managment; intoduction of
RWS, establishment of the monitor-
ing and evaluation program
of the project).                        6,500            3,247
iii) Part G of the Project
(Preparation of future rrigaptio
projects in India)                     10,000           10,368
iv) Unallomated                             5,000                0
Total                               175,000          151,840
B.   ofinancing Instiutions                         0                0
C. Other Extenal Sources                            0                0
D. Domestic (GOG)                              185.000           96.810
Total (US$'000)                         360,0002/        248,650 41
Total(RsM)                               3024.0          3854.10 41



33
Pag 2 of 2
Nos
/    Credit amended to delete Heaan and substitute Machhu I & II dams. The
allocadon was revised as under.
i)  for Machhu I dam, Machhu II dam and
imgaton and water supply         =      US$ 11,300 M
ii)  for all others                   =      USS 114a0M
Total d                  US$ 125,500 M
2/    US$ 1.00    =Rs.8.4
3/    This does not reflect mue expenditure as the disbursements were made at
different exchange rates through rspective periods of project execution.
4/    Additional USS 85.65 M (Rs.1327.90 M) shall have to be expended to
compelte the prescibed works as per revised cost esdmate of works
(Rs5182 M). US$ = Rs. 15.5.



34
TABLE6A&
MIA~~~~~AlL~
GUJARAT IRRIGATION   PRQJEI
(Cr.101 1-IN)
Direct Benefits
Indicator         Appraisal Esiimate    Closing Date   Full Development
Estimate 1/        Estimate
1. Benefitting farm
families (No.)          136,000           20,050              109,200
2. Increase in area receiving
mngation (ha)           190,000            10,200             168,249
3.   ease in food grain
production (tons/year)  204,000            12,300             165,414
4. Increase in cotton
production (tons/year)   20,000               900              26,320
5. Increase in fruit
production (tons/year)  185,000            11,005             129,140
6. Generation of full dme
family employment
(jobs/man days)          10,500/3.2 M         646                8817
7. Generation of employment
for hired farm labour (jobs)   21,300        1200              17,099
8. Generadon of non-farm
employment jobs)         58,500              1650              43,350
9. Value added to local (State)
economy (Rs.M/yr.)        1,860            115.60              1515.43
.1/ Cedit Closing Date of 04/30/1989.



35
INDIA                             Table 6B
Page 1 of 4
A       O JEZNTINI&Jcr
Economic Impact
A. Economic Rate of Return
Appraisal      PCR
Estimate    Estimate  At Full Development
(%)          (%)
Damanganga                    16            2      The economic net returns for
the project as a whole, at full
Heran                         17         Deleted   development is expected to
increase from Rs.56 M
Karjan                        21           4.6    (without project) to Rs.429 M.
The highest incremental
Ukai-Kakrapar                 20           3.7     benefit w3uld be attained in
Kaijan component (Rs.189 M),
Saurashtra                    18           0.4     while the lowest would be at
Macchu (Rs.21 M)
Macchu                   Not applicable    2.6
Whole rroject                 18
- Including Sunk Costs                   2.4
- Excluding Sunk Costs                   3.2
B. Costs                   Appraisal     Current
Estimate    Estimate
(in Rupees)  (in Rupees) Percent Increase
1. Project Cost Per Hectare
(Excluding Sunk Costs)
Nominal 1/                      13999        30113             115
Real (1989-90 Constant)2/       19122        39799             108
2. Project Cost Per Hectare
(Including Sunk Costs)
Nominal 1/                      13999        33295             138
Real (1989-90 Constant)2/       19122        47008             146
Footnotes:
1/ Sunk costs are for 1979-80 which amounted to Rs.558 M in nominal
terms and Rs.1226.0 M in real terms.
2/ Costs Include projected future costs also.



36
Table 6B
C. Irgation- Potential                                                          Page 2 of 4
Development (in hectares)
Appraisl     Curent
Estimae     Estimate
Year             (cumulative)  (cumulative)
1979-80                   510
1980-81                  4310
1981-82                 14110
1982-83                 31867
1983-84                 63452
1984-85                104632
1985-86                136451
1986-87                167466
1987-88                180345         3187
1988489                199698         5331
1989-90                210022         8563
1990-91                              24100
1991-92                              43859
1992-93                              70847
1993-94                              89263
1994-95                             102673
1995-96                             116697
1996-97                             134654
1997-98                             163392
1998-99                             175607
D. Command Area Benefitted   Command   Submerged
and Submerged Area (Ha)      Area         Area
Damanganga                        51138         4368
Karjan                            56200         3677
Ukai-Kakrapar Modern. Scheme      45584
Machhu                             9000          1396
Saurashtra Coastal                 13685        6714
Total                           175607        16155
E. Area and Productivity of Major
Crops (at full development) 1/   Percent Area           Productivity (kgjha)
Appraisal    Current     Appraisal     Current
Major Crops           Estimate    Estimate     Estimate     Estimate
Paddy                                 27          24         3000         3010
Wheat                                 23          21         2050         2050
Groundnut                             15          34         1600         1600
Footnote:
/ These are averages and the % area and productivity varies from one scheme
to anodher. The without project assumptions are kept more or less similar for
appraisal as for current situation.
Page 1



37
Table 6B
Page 3 of 4
F. EconomicPrices 1/           Appraisal     Current
(Rupees per ton of Crops/Input)  Estimate   Estimat4
N                                    4630         9720
P                                    4190         9180
K                                    1860         4850
Wheat                                1910         2043
Paddy                                1570         1688
Sorghum                              1750         1278
Groundnut( nuts in shell)            2520         3180
0. Pi-ce Assumptions
1. General. For traded commodities, economic prices were derived from the Bank's
commodity forecasts 1995 (projected) expressed in 1989 constant values with appropriate
adjustments for freight, handling and processing. Wheat, paddy and sorghum were valued at
export parity prices, and groundnut at import substitution prices (farmgate price is for nuts in
shell). A standard exchange rate of US$1 to Rs.16.0 was used for 1989 period. For non-traded
commodities, market prices were multiplied by a standard conversion factor of 0.8.
2. Agricultural Wages. The wage rate is Rs.20 per manday for the unskilled labor. Shadow
wage rate of labor is taken as Rs. 16 per manday (80% of Rs.20).
3.    Fertilizers. These have been valued at world market prices which on an average are 79%
higher (1995 projected) than the domestic retail prices. The border prices for nutrients/kg. were
estimated as Rs.9.72 for N; Rs.9. 10 for P205 and Rs.4.85 for K20 in 1995.
4. Seeds. By-products and Farm Yard Manure. The economic prices for seeds, by-products
and farm yard manure were calculated by multiplying the market prices by the standard conversion
factor of 0.8.
5.    Economic value of project cost was calculated by multiplying the actual cost with the
standard conversion factor of 0.8. The real economic cost (1989 constant) was computed by using
wholesale price index.
Footnote:
1/Appraisal is 1990 projected at 1980 constant prices; and current is 1995 projected at 1989
constant prices.



H. Cost and Benefit Streams
LIFE SPAN - 50 YEARS
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__---------------------------------------- ----
'COSTS  IN RS. MILLION                INCREMENTAL BENEFITS IN RS. MILLION    INCREMEENTAL BENEFITS-COST
YEAR  NO. DAIAN NARJAN L'EAI- SAtR tACHIIU TOTAL DAMAN KARJANUKAI- SAUR MACHIIU TOTAL DAPIAMN  iARJAN UKAI-  SAUR  PACHHU  TOTAL
GANCA       KAKARA SHiTRA             GANCA      NANARA SHTRA              GANGA        KAKARA  SIITRA
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__---------------------------------------------
79/RO  1 738.5  185.6  11.8  44.6   0.0 980.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 -738.5 -185.6  -11.8  -44.6    0.0 -980.4
80/81 2 246.2   85.0  29.2  47.3   7.2 414.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 -246.2  -8b.0  -29.2  -47.3   -7.2 -414.9
81/82  3 220.5  147.6  47.1  34.2  25.3 474.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 -220.5 -147.6  -47.1  -34.2  -25.3 -474.8
82/83  4 196.0  200.0 124.7  41.5  12.1 574.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 -196.0 -200.0 -124.7  -41.5  -12.1 -574.3
83/84  5 163.0  263.1 129.0  50.8  17.9 623.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 -163.0 -263.1 -129.0  -50.8  -17.9 -623.8
84/85  6 114.9  304.3 127.4  75.4  31.8 653.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 -114.9 -304.3 -127.4  -75.4  -31.8 -653.8
85/86  7  87.3  211.5  60.7  60.6  43.1 463.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  -87.3 -211.5  -60.7  -60.6  -43.1 -463.1
86181  8  81.7  195.8  55.1  79.5  64.6 476.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  -81.7 -195.8  -55.1  -79.5  -64.6 -476.8
87/88  9  81.8  115.8  36.4  60.7  49.8 344.5   0.8   0.0   0.2   0.9   0.0   1.8  -81.0 -115.8  -36.2  -59.9  -49.8 -342.7
8/89 10 61.6   82.1  27.3  76.4  65.3 312.8   1.9   0.0   0.9   1.7   0.0   4.5  -59.8  -82.1  -26.4  -74.7  -65.3 -308.3
89/90 11 92.8   95.3  32.6  73.2  54.9 348.8   3.8   0.0   2.3   2.8   0.0   8.9  -89.1  -95.3  -30.3  -70.4  -54.9 -339.9
90/91 12  94.4  90.3  68.0  73.1  44.5 370.4   5.6   3.8   6.0   3.1   3.1  21.7  -88.8  -86.5  -62.0  -70.0  -41.4 -348.8
91/92 13  74.9  90.8   3.8  57.1   1.4 228.1   9.6  12.2  12.7   3.4   7.8  45.7  -65.3  -78.6    8.9  -53.8    6.4 -182.4
92/93 14  32.7   73.2   5.2  32.2   1.9 145.2  16.8  26.2  23.3   3.5  14.8  84.6  -15.9  -47.0   18.1  -28.7   12.9  -60.6
93/94 15   4.3    4.0   4.1   2.1   1.2  15.8  25.7  42.5  33.2   5.8  18.8 125.9   21.4   38.5   29.2    3.6   17.6  110.2
94/95 16   4.1    4.1   4.8   1.4   1.2  1f.6  33.7  59.3  42.0   8.0  21.1 164.1   29.6   56.1   37.2    6.6   19.9  148.5
95/96 17   5.0    4.5   4.6   1.7   1.2  16.9  40.2  75.5  47.8  10.8  21.1 195.5   35.3   71.0   43.3    9.1   19.9  178.5
96/97 18   6.0    6.0   3.6   2.4   1.2  19.3  48.1  94.5  51.7  13.4  23.1 228.8   42.0   88.5   48.0   11.0   19.9  209.5
97/98 19   7.3    8.9   3.6   3.2   1.2  24.2  59.3 125.3  53.2  19.1  21.1 277.9   52.0  116.4   49.5   15.9   19.9  253.7
98/99 20   7.0    7.2   3.6   2.1   1.2  21.2  71.2 157.9  53.2  24.2  21.1 327.5   64.1  150.7   49.5   22.1   19.9  306.3
99/00 21   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  79.3 181.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 362.4   73.7  175.9   49.5   25.2   19.9  344.2                           t
22   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3                           OD
23   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
24   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
25   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 388.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   !;.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
26   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.0   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
27   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
28   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
29   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  IB.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
30   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
31   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  38.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
32   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.3   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
33   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
34   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 388.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.6   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
35   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
36   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
37   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
38   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
39   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
40   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.3   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
41   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3         
42   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3                   W
43   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3                    
44   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3         
45   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3                     c 
46   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3                  ° to
47   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8  49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
48   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.3 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
49   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
50   5.6    5.7   3.6   2.1   1.2  18.3  82.5 188.6  53.2  27.2  21.1 372.6   77.0  182.8   49.5   25.2   19.9  354.3
EIRR (t)                                                                              0.43   4.12   3.61   0.I5   2.59   2.41
EIRR WITH  1979-80 COSTS EXCLUDED                                                     1.96   4.63   3.70   0.38   2.59   3.22
NOTE: OTiIER COSTS LIKE KAL331, PP. AND ilERAN ROAD ARE EXCLUDED.



Table 7
Page I of 4
INDIA
GUJARAT IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit 1011-IN)
Status of Covenants
Covenant Reference             Subject                  Deadline for            Status
Compliance
Section 2.01         GOG shal canry out the project with due  -                 GOG consistently faced severe drought-
diligence and in conformity with                          induced financial difficulties since 1985
appropriat adminstrative, financial and                   which resulted in the reduction of
engineering practice, and shall provide                    budgeted oudays thereby seriously
pqdy as needed, the funds, facilitie,                      affecting its capability to perform
services and other resources required for                                    repairs to
the purpose.                                              Damanganga canal system, which was
earlier not in conformity with appropriatw
engineering prctice, had since improved.
However, the quality of recently
completed roads was not upto the
requisite standaid. The project
management could not maximize the
physical progress on the project even
with two credit extensions and an amount
of only US$ 159.26 M was disbursed by
the final disbursment date in November
1989, against the total Credit of US$ 175
M.
Section 2.04 (c)     GOG shall prompdy but not later than six   10/31/1989      PCR, Parts I and El[, prpared by Bank
months after the closing date prepare a                   to new format. GOG fumished Part 11 of
Project Completion Report                                 PCR and conments on Part I on
04/16/1990.



iable 
Page 2 of 4
Secon 2.07(a)        GOG shall construct and oper  the       -                 Not adequately complied. Ihe Appraisal
Project in accordance with procedures                     Report specified in the Design Standards
agreed between the Association and                        of distribution network that chak sizes
Gujarat                                                   should, in general, not exceed 20 ha,
which became an obstacle in the
implementation of RWS. Despite GOG's
agrement to the Action Plans of April
1987 and April 1988 to implement
irigation in acordance with Warabandi
style of RWS, the Dqartnent reverted
back to the Appraisal Report standards on
Damanganga sub-project and rejecting
Bank's suggestion of combining the
adjacent small chaks into larger ones and
creating water course linkages. GOGs
insistence on literally following Appraisal
Report specified standards, and not
constructng aditional parallel water
courses, has ruled out the
accomplishment of Warabandi type RWS
in 56,000 ha at Damanganga. GOG
advanced 'undulating topography of
command and huge cost of modifications'
as the reasons for non-implementation of
Warabandi type RWS at Damanganga.
GO's implementation of RWS at Karjan
is correct but the progress is ver,, slow.
Section 2.07(b)      GOG shall upgrade road system to       -                  Upgrading complied with but
appropnate road standards and mantain                     maintenance of completed works not fully
all co mand area roads in accordance                      in accord with sound engineering
with sound engineering practices.                         practices.



Iabkl
Page 3 of 4
Section 2.11  1/     GOG shall furnish to the Association for   06/15/1988 and  Pardally complied. Operation and
its approval a detailed dam and reservoir   09/30/1988     Maintenance Plans/Manuals funiished for
operation plan including operating                         Damanganga and Karjan Reservoirs and
facilities therefor for Damanganga dam by                  those for Machhu I & II have still to be
June 15, 1988 and for Karjan, Machhu I                     funished by GOG. Moreover, operation
and II dams by September 30, 1988.                         and maintenance plans for dams have not
been prepared so far.
Section 3.02         GOG shall take all necssary measures to  -                 While WRD contends that the Public
minimi malaria and odter water-related                     Health Departnent of GOG is taking
diseases in the areas covered by the                       necessary steps through its wide network
Project.                                                  for malaria eradication, the Bank does not
fully share this view in view of the fact
that GOG is still to frame a
comprehensive prOgram, outining the
overall eurnts including measures
that may already be in place or eadily
available to mitigate adverse impacts of
the project to control malaria and the
water-related disease.
Section 3.03 2       GOG shall "maintain at all times, the  To furnish the first  Not complied with. No report on the
irrigation water charges at such levels as   report by 07/31/1988    review of irrigation water charges has
shall be required to cover full operation  and to review the  been furnished by GOG. However, by its
and maintenance costs and a reasonable  water charges by   Resolution No. WMU-1087(3) P.2 dated
porion of the capital costs, taking into  March 31 of each year.  December 20,1988 GOG has approved a
accoumt the repayment capacity of the                      significant increase in the irrigation
farmers". GOG shall also review the                        prOJeCtS operation and maintenance
irrigation water chages on March 31 of                     budget to the following level, (against the
each year, and revise these charges, if                    previous amount of Rs.lI00ha).
reqired, and furnish such report to the
Association, beginning with the repor                      a. Rs. 180/ha gross irrigated area; of this
due after March 31, 1988 to be submitted                   Rs.30/ha would t - for the headworks
by July 31, 1988.                                          with ungated spillway and Rs.401ha for
gated spillway,
b. Additionally Rs.60/ha for unutilized
cultivable command area during the
development stage;



Tiatk2
Page 4 of 4
c. Additionally Rs.90/ha for engineering
adminisuton.
The impact of these increases shall be
known after the system is operated for
some years.
Tbis Covenant was added by the amendment of Project Agreement on 02/06/1986 and compliance dates extended by further amendment
to the Project Agreement on 04/29/1987 and April 29, 1988.
'f Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement was first amended on 04/29/1987 and again amended on April 29, 1988. The Covenant relating to
cost recovery was not retained.



TABLE 8-A
INDIA
GUJARAT IRRIGATION II PROJECT'
(Credit 101 I-IN)
Staff n2uts
Stage of
Project Cyce     FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY9l  Tota
Pre-appraisal    4.40   55.70                                                                                         60.10
Apprais                        118.80                                                                                118.80
Negodations                      1.00                                                                                  1.00
Supervision                           29.20  34.80  26.30  33.60  34.70  26.80  41.20  25.80  16.30                  268.70
Project Completion                                                                              3.10  4.50   0.60      8.20
TOTAIS:          4.40   55.70   119.80 29.20  34.80  26.30  33.60  34.70  26.80  41.20  25.80  19.40  4.50   0.60   456.80



Table"8w
Page  of 3
INDIA
GUJARAT IRGATION II PROJECr
(CREDIT 1011-IN)
Banlc Missiores
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/Year   No.of      Days in   Specialisations   Performance    Type of        Comments
Persons     Field    Represented 1/    Rating 2/   Problems 31
1. BNefore A.ssal        Not available
2.                        09179          8       Notavailable
3. B                      Not available
4. SUWj3zsion             01/81          3          5        ECJGW1PROC         211       P/Legal and  First Supevision
'start-up'    Misson aeR the
problems    effectiveness of
Credit.
12/81          2         5        EN/EC               2V3       M            Suerision Mission
04/82          2          6       EN/EC               312       M/PR         Supervision Mission
11/82          2         8        EN/EC               3/1       T            Supervision Mission
04/83          2         8        EN/EC               211       AG           Supervsion Mision
11/83          3         11       EN/EN/EN           2V3        WI'          Supervision Mission
04/84          4          10      EN/EN/EN/EN         213       Mi/AG        SWpri   Mission



Table 8-B
Page 2 of 3
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/Year   No.of    Days in   Specialisations   Perfonnance    Type of        Camments
Persons    Field     Represented 1/    Rating 21   Problems 31
10/84      4          11          EN/EN/EN/FIN        2/2      L4ND         Supemvision Mission
03/85      4          9           EN/EN/EN/EN         2/1      T            Supervision Mission
I2185      8          5           EN/EN/EN/EN/        2,2      PROC/F/    Supervision Mission
PROCFINI/AGIRG               Public
Employees
surikeumles
04/86      7           12         EN/EN/EN/EN/        3/3      FW/AG        Supervision Mission
R&R/EIN/AG
04/86      2          5           EN/EN                                     Review mission on
adequacy of yre-
consruction design of
Machhu I dam   cons-
truction woiks of
Machhu 11 dam.
SepL/      3          12          EN/EN/EN/PROCf   3/3         F/Drough    Supervision Mission
OcL86                             AG                           T/RWS
10/86      1          2          EC                                        Suplerma1 missions
finigs of theMa$
10/86      2          2          EN/EN                 -                   Proect Ficld Mi
ApIiI      12         17          EN  = 7            3/2       Q/DS)M      Supervision Mission
May 87                            EC  =1
GW  = I
SOC = I
R&R= I
AG  = 1
10/87         5          12      EN/NENREN/RR 32               QJMRWS    Supervsion Mission



Table 8-B
Page 3 of 3
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/Year   No.of    Days in   Specialisations   Perfonnance   Type of         Comments
Persons    Field     Repr,ted 1/    Rating 2J   Problems 3/
04/88      3          6           EN/EN/EN            3/1    MJRWS/DS    Supervision Mission
10/88      3          7           EN/EN/EN            3(2    FIMRWSADS  Supervision Mission
02/89      5          8           EN/EN/EN/AGITRG   3(2    F/MARWSA)S  Supervision Mission
4aL
Abbreviatons as used:
Specifications represeted 11: EN - Engineer, EC - Economist; AG - Agriculturist; PrOC - Procurement Specialist;
FIN - Financial Analyst; TRG - Training Specialist; HYD - Hydrologist;
SOC - Sociologist; R&R - Resettlement & Rehabilitation Specialist
Performance Ratings:     1st indicaor, I - minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems;
2nd indicator, 1 - improving, 2 - static; 3 - deteriorating.
Types of Problems:       M - Management Problems; F - Fnancial; OR - Orgnisational; T - Technical (Engineering);
P - Political Interference; LEC - Serious Covenant Non-compliance; AG - Deficiencies in
Agrcultural Support Services; PR - Procurenent; Q - Quality Construction Wnfringernent;
DS - Dam Safety Problems; RWS - Infringement in Implementation of Warabandi Type of
Water Management.



