Document of
The World Bank                  jILE COfY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2765-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND GUJARAT IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1, 1980)
US$1.00       =  Rs 8.278765
Rs 1.00       =  US$0.12079
Rs 1,000,000 =  US$120,790
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against
a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now floating,
the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to
Rs 8.40, which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI     -    Government of India
GOG     -    Government of Gujarat
CADA    -    Command Area Development Authority
RWS     -    Rotational Water Supply



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND GUJARAT IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             State of Gujarat.
Amount:                  US$175 million.
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending                As part of Central assistance to States for develop-
Terms:                 ment projects on terms and conditions applicable at
the time.
Project
Description:           The proposed project would support the introduction of
improved planning, design and management of irrigation
schemes in Gujarat. Specifically it would help finance
a five-year time slice of Gujarat's investment program
for irrigation which would comprise: continuation of
construction of three on-going major irrigation schemes
and improving the village-to-market roads network in
their command areas; modernization of parts of Gujarat's
largest existing irrigation scheme (Ukai-Kakrapar)
including reclamation of coastal lands; catchment pro-
tection and construction of irrigation facilities in
the coastal areas of Saurashtra peninsula; operational
and management improvements on existing and on-going
irrigation projects; establishment of an institute for
training of land development and water management
specialists; and project monitoring and evaluation.
In addition, the proposed project would include the
preparation of future irrigation projects in India for
possible Bank Group financing, including Narmada devel-
*                                  opment projects.  The project is designed to increase
agricultural production and the standard of living of
the farmers in Gujarat. The risks under the proposed
project are those normally associated with irrigation
projects in India.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wlorld Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                     Local  Foreign  Total
---(US$ Millions)----
New Major Schemes           126.3    29.9   156.2
Modernization of
Ukai-Kakrapar              26.7     4.7    31.4
Saurashtra Coastal
Development                20.7     6.5    27.2
Training Institute            3.0     0.8      3.8
Operational Improvements    2.0       0.4      2.4
Monitoring and Evaluation   1.7        0.1     1.8
Engineering -and Adminis-
tration                    33.9      -      33.9
Base Cost of
Gujarat Project      214.3    42.4   256.7
Physical Contingencies       23.3     5.7    29.0
Expected Price
Contingencies              54.0    10.3    64.3
Total Cost of
Gujarat Project 1/  291.6    58.4   350.0
Preparation of Future
Irrigation Projects         9.4     0.6    10.0
Total Project Cost    301.0    59.0   360.0
Financing Plan:                                      Local  Foreign  Total
---(S  Millions)-----
IDA Credit                  116.0    59.0   175.0
Local Financing (GOG)       185.0     -      185.0
301.0    59.0   360.0
Estimated                                            (US$ Million)
Disbursement:                        FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85  FY86
Annual         5      30      44     45      40    11
Cumulative    5       35      79    124    164   175
Rate of Return:          18%.
Appraisal Report:        No. 2843-IN dated April 9, 1980.
1/   Taxes and duties included are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR THE SECOND GUJARAT IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$175 millen on
standard IDA terms to help finance a five-year time slice of Gujarat State's
investment program for irrigation, and the preparation of future irrigation
projects in India. GOI would channel US$165 million from the proceeds of the
credit to the Government of Gujarat (GOG) in accordance with GOI's standard
terms and arrangements for financing state development projects. Part of the
remaining US$10 million for project preparation would also be chann l-d to
the six concerned Indian states on the same terms. The exchange risk would
be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project
(Report No. P-2753-IN), dated March 27, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world inflation have led to significant increases in prices during
the first half of the 1979/80 fiscal year. The wholesale price index for
September 1979 was 18.4% above that of the previous September. Together, the
rise in the prices of food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thirds of the increase in the index. However, prices of almost
all commodities moved up significantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase in the prices of the residual commodities. Government attempts
to regulate the supply and price of commodities like sugar and edible oils,



- 3 -
ceilings on credit, adjustment of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn
of the fruit and vegetable prices after summer helped the wholesale price
index to level off after September. However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal factors, prices are still rising at approximately an 18% annual rate.
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 13-15 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 17-20 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.



- 4 -
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter
of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year.
However, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely
to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates. As a
result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of reserves
sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports covered by
reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange posit-ion, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to dea:L with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by thes National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within



- 5 -
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and'others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.



Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on clevelopment projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. Indiia has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part



-7-
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUIP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,051 million had
been repaid, and US$3,377 million was still undisbursed as of February 29,
1980. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
February 29, 1980, totalled Us$366 rnillion, representing an increase of about
32% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of February 29, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.7 million, US$31.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of February 29, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions.  Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. ProjBcts supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need



- 9 -
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
February 29, 1980, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled
US$1,519 million, of which US$579 million remained to be disbursed, leaving
a net amount outstanding of US$940 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA _/
General
26.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 43% of value added and
accounts for a major share of exports. Investments in agriculture have been
given priority by GOI and the State Governments, especially since the mid-
1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
1/   Paragraphs 26 to 33 are substantially the same as the corresponding
paragraphs in the President's Report for the Second Maharashtra Irriga-
tion Project, Report No. P-2624-N, dated September 26, 1979.



- 10 -
27.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth
obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of time, between crops,
and between regions. The overall rate is very much affected by the serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974.  At the see time, the
success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to annual increases in wheat
production of about 20% between 1967 and 1971, and three consecutive favorable
monsoon seasons in 1975, 1976 and 1977 resulted in bumper crops in these
years. Other foodgrain crops have not enjoyed anything like the same success
as wheat, mainly because of the difficulties of developing high yielding
seeds adapted to local conditions. The effects of the green revolution have
been concentrated in northwestern India. In 1979, the late on-set of this
year's southwest monsoon has caused considerable concern. Rainfall has been
deficient in many parts of the country, which as a whole has experienced a
renewed dry spell since mid-August. Severe drought conditions are reported in
49 out of the 56 districts in Uttar Pradesh as well as in areas of Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Eastern Rajasthan.
Shortages in electrical power and diesel fuel required to run irrigation pumps
have aggravated the situation. In the absence of good September rains, summer
foodgrain production in 1979/80 will likely fall short of 1978/79 summer
production levels (85 million tons) by at least 10 million tons. The total
shortfall for the year may even be higher, as the winter crop (35-40% of total
production) may be adversely affected by a low level of residual soil moisture
and stored irrigation water and continuing shortages of diesel and power for
irrigation pumps.
28.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence is the expansion of irrigation and the
extent to which more effective use can be made of the existing investment in
irrigation facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis on the
improved supply of inputs, such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural
credit, and extension services.
Irrigation
29.       Up to 1964/65, the irrigated area in India increased, at a rate of
only 2.1% per year, of which about two-thirds was from surface water resources
and one-third from groundwater. Since then, the rate of increase has about
doubled, mainly through an accelerated program of groundwater development.
At present, the total irrigated area is approximately 50 million ha, of which
about three-fifths is irrigated from surface sources and two-fifths from
groundwater.
30.       The pace of surface water development remained roughly constant at
about 0.5 million ha per year until the end of the Fourth Plan (1969/70-
1973/74). During this period, actual increases in the surface irrigated area
lagged behind GOI's physical plan targets for more rapid development. A major
problem was the continuing tendency of the States to start a large number of
projects, which, given the limited financial resources, could only be con-
structed slowly so that benefits accrued with much delay. However, in recent



- 11 -
years, budgetary allocations have grown rapidly and the authorities have in-
creased their efforts to complete on-going projects. As a result, the new
area brought under command in 1976/77 was 1.1 million ha or about twice that
achieved in any single year before the start of the Fifth Plan in 1974/75.
However, while the increase in area brought under the command of new surface
irrigation projects is impressive, the increase in area actually irrigated
has been more modest than the figures imply, particularly in the case of
major and medium irrigation schemes, due to incomplete distribution and
inadequate drainage systems. In areas actually receiving water, irrigation
efficiencies remain low and water supply is unreliable.
31.       The Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1976, also found that the underutili-
zation of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated
development in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training, lack of
effective extension services and poor administrative coordination. It has
been estimated that the majority of recently completed irrigation projects
require additional investments up to US$600 per ha to make them fully produc-
tive. Accordingly, GOI and the State Governments have adopted various measures
to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department has been set
up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work on selected high
priority projects. Such measures for command area development (CAD) include
public investment in irrigation-associated infrastructure - such as drainage,
roads, markets, agricultural extension and research - and private investments,
mainly at the farm level - such as land shaping and leveling, watercourse
lining, field channels and drains.
32.       In view of the emergence of high productivity farm technologies
dependent on effective water control - and given India's already substantial
investment in surface irrigation - the economic return on investment that
improves water delivery or facilitates better use of the water provided, can
be very high. Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation
infrastructure as well as command area development are being given high prior-
ity by GOI, and a relatively large proportion of public sector investment in
irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan allocations have been
supplemented by the resources of agricultural and commercial banks participat-
ing in financing command area development programs through farm credit. In
addition, major institutional changes have been introduced affecting the
coordination of services in command areas and the administration of credit.
33.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where rela-
tively sma'll incremental investments are required. Thus, modernization of
existing irrigation infrastructure and development of groundwater are also
given high priority, and new projects are being designed, implemented and
operated on the basis of improved irrigation technologies.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Gujarat
_~~~~~~~~
34.       Gujarat, with an area of about 196,000 km  and a population of about
32 million in 1979, is one of India's most advanced States. It is relatively



- 12 -
urbanized (about 30%) and has a large modern manufacturing sector, which
together with related secondary sector industries and mining activities con-
tributes about 30% of Gujarat's domestic product. But agriculture and allied
activities, whose contribution to Gujarat's domestic product averages 36%, is
predominant in the State's economy. While the industrial sector in Gujarat
has grown over the last ten years at a slower pace (3.3% p.a.) than industry
nationwide (4.7% p.a.), growth of agriculture in the State has been faster
(2.9% p.a.) than nationally (2.3% p.a.). Agriculture employs about 65% of
the labor force in Gujarat.
35.       The State consists of2thrtse distinct geographical areas.  First is
the Gujarat mainland (85,000 km ) formed by extensive coastal plains flanked
by hilly terrain in the east. This area slopes gently towards the west and
southwest. The State's four major rivers (Tapi, Narmada, Mahi, and Sabar-
mati) and numerous small streams, wlhich traverse these plains, cause wide-
spread floods at frequent intervals. Poor natural drainage resulting from
the low gradient has caused waterlogging and salinity 2n a significant scale.
The second area is the Saurashtra p(eninsula (65,000 km ). A number of small
rivers originate in its central tabLe and run radially into the sea. In recent
years over-exploitation of groundwater in the coastal areas has resulted in
salt water2intrusion into the aquif(er. Finally, there is the Kutch land mass
(46,000 km ) where large areas are saline and unsuitable for agricultural pro-
duction without reclamation and the provision of irrigation.
36.       6f the 18.8 million ha area of Gujarat, for which land use is
reported, about 9.8 million ha are under cultivation. There is little scope
for increasing cultivable land except through reclamation of desert, saline
and ravine areas. The cropping int(ensity is only 107%, one of the lowest in
India; but, given the low rainfall, it cannot be significantly increased with-
out irrigation. At present, only about 18% of the cropped area (1.76 million
ha) is irrigated. This figure is l(ess than two-thirds of the national average,
and only two States (Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra) have a lower percentage
of their cropped areas irrigated. The ultimate pot5ntial of irrigation water3
resources in Gujarat is estimated al: 38.3 billion m , of which 13.1 billion m
would be derived from groundwater development and 25.2 billion m from surfac3
schemes.  So far, 34% of the potential has been developed, with 4.3 billion m
coming from groundwater and 8.85 biLlion m3 from surface irrigation. Develop-
ment of irrigation from surface sources, however, is limited by a number of
factors. All rivers, except Narmada and Tapi, are seasonal. The topography
is unfavorable and makes construction of major infrastructure costly. The
catchment areas of the major rivers extend into other Indian states, which
subjects Gujarat to water sharing agreements with the upper riparian States.
37.       Gujarat's climate and soiLs are particularly suitable for cotton,
groundnuts, and tobacco, and the State produces about one-quarter of India's
cotton and groundnuts and one-third of its tobacco. Cotton and groundnuts are
the most widely grown crops in the State.  Cereals - primarily pearl millet,



- 13 -
sorghum, wheat, paddy, and maize - and pulses account for less than half of
the cropped area. As a result, Gujarat is a net importer of foodgrains, and
in a normal year foodgrain production is about 1.4 million tons short of the
State's requirement of 5.7 million tons.
38.       Gujarat has a tropical monsoon climate with temperatures suitable
for year-round cropping. Annual rainfall ranges from less than 300 mm in the
northwest to over 2,000 mm in a small area in the southeast, but most of the
State receives 500-800 mm. However, rainfall is highly unreliable in terms
of both timing and quantity, and this has made Gujarat extremely susceptible
to droughts, which the State experienced not less than 25 times since 1900.
The latest drought years were 1972/73 and 1974/75 when foodgrain production
fell to 50% of its normal level.
39.       Gujarat's labor force constitutes 31% of its total population.
Farmers and agricultural laborers account for 43% and 22%, respectively, of
the labor force. About one fifth of the population belong to traditionally
disadvantaged groups: tribes (14%) and scheduled castes (7%). In a normal
year, about 40% of the rural population has incomes below the poverty line
(US$75). Poverty is heaviest in the eastern and southern parts of the State,
where two-thirds of the population live below the poverty line. The average
farm size in Gujarat is 4.1 ha, but there are large regional variations and
in general, due to agro-climatic conditions, farms in the low rainfall areas
of Sauraslatra are significantly larger than in the high rainfall areas of
Mainland Gujarat. The land ceiling in Gujarat is 4.1 to 10.9 ha for land
irrigated from a Government source, depending on soil type and reliability
of irrigation water. In rainfed areas, the ceiling ranges from 8.1 ha to
21.9 ha. For each family member in excess of five, the ceiling is increased
by 20%, up to a maximum increase of 100%.
40.       Because of the generally low and unreliable rainfall in Gujarat,
irrigation development is a prerequisite for a significant increase of agricul-
tural production, and consequently has been given increasing priority by the
Government of Gujarat (GOG) since India's Independence (1947). At that time,
there were only two small ancient canal systems in Gujarat and the area irri-
gated from wells was only 400,000 ha. In the early 1950s, three major surface
schemes were started: Mahi Right Bank Canal with a cultivable command area
(CCA) of about 143,000 ha; Kakrapar with a CCA of about 225,000 ha; and Shet-
runji with a CCA of about 57,000 ha. On all three projects, progress of head-
works construction was relatively rapid but canal construction lagged far
behind. The Bank Group's first financing for surface irrigation development
in India financed the construction of the Shetrunji canal system (Cr. 13-IN of
November 22, 1961, US$4.5 million). Like other irrigation projects of that
time, the Shetrunji project failed to achieve its agricultural potential due
to inadequate agricultural supporting services and lagging construction of
field channels and drains by the farmers. The problems encountered with pro-
jects such as Shetrunji have since led GOI, the State Governments concerned
and the Bank Group to reorient their concept of sound irrigation development
toward a more integrated approach., In 1960, the Ukai project was started to
provide carry-over storage for the Kakrapar project and to extend the CCA to
a total of about 375,000 ha. Part of the distribution system in the Ukai



- 14 -
project is still under construction; a major program of on-farm development,
drainage and modernization works on the Kakrapar system, part of which would
be financed under the proposed credit has been undertaken. The Kadana Irriga-
tion Project in Gujarat (Cr. 176-IN of February 9, 1970, US$35 million) was
the first of a second generation of Bank Group-financed irrigatir'n projects
in India designed to avoid the weaknesses encountered by the earlier projects
like Shetrunji (see above). Besideis the traditional irrigation infrastructure,
this project included some elements of command area development, in particular
the construction of field channels, drains and landshaping and financing of
these works through institutional credit, the construction of market roads,
and an agricultural support program. This project is now basically completed,
about two years behind schedule due to two extreme floods, which disrupted dam
construction. A project completion report is under preparation. Difficulties
encountered in this project included a too heavy reliance on farmer coopera-
tion in project implementation, particularly on-farm development, and--related
to this--too little emphasis on the need to generate an absolutely reliable
water supply. These shortcomings were identified early, and Bank Group
financed irrigation projects in India approved after about 1974 contain cor-
rective measures. In 1978, the Banlk Group financed the (First) Gujarat Irri-
gation Project (US$85 million credit of July 17, 1978; Cr. 808-IN) which
provides for construction of about twenty new, and modernization of about ten
existing, medium irrigation systems located in most parts of the State. This
project represented one of the Bank Group's first sector lending operations
for irrigation in India. It is progressing fully in line with expectations.
Groundwater development in Gujarat has accelerated since Independence. In
the 1950's, the area irrigated from wells increased by about 3.5% annually.
In the 1960's, the pace of groundwater development almost doubled, and diesel
pumps replaced the traditional lifting devices. In several areas, the limit
of groundwater resources is being approached. The Bank Group has been directly
involved in groundwater development in Gujarat through the Gujarat Agricultural
Credit Project (Cr. 191-IN of June 3, 1970, US$35 million), which was fully
disbursed on March 31, 1975. A project completion report found that about
81,000 farms representing a total population of 480,000 benefitted directly
from the minor irrigation component of the project, rather than 25,000 farms as
estimated at appraisal. The overall economic rate of return for the project's
minor irrigation component was 28%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 23%.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
41.       Expansion of the irrigated area is one of the cornerstones of
Gujarat's agricultural development strategy. Since the scope for groundwater
development is limited, GOG gives high priority to surface irrigation. The
plans for the next five-year period emphasize: completion of all on-going
major and medium projects in order to minimize the gestation period and achieve
a more rapid buildup of irrigation benefits; construction of new medium pro-
jects, especially in drought prone and backward areas; start on the Narmada
irrigation scheme; and modernization of existing projects, primarily through
the provision of additional control structures, canal lining, drainage works



- 15 -
and construction of watercourses/field channels. Investments in major and
medium surface irrigation schemes for the 1978/79-82/83 five-year plan period
are projected to total about US$750 million (in constant 1978/79 terms), of
which US$240 million would be spent for Narmada development, US$200 million
each for new major and new medium projects, US$70 million for modernizing
existing projects, and the remaining US$40 million for other irrigation
developments.
42.       The proposed project would reflect the priorities in both the
national and State Five-Year and Annual Plans. It would combine: the comple-
tion of three new major schemes in the backward areas; first-phase modern-
ization of Gujarat's largest project; coastal area development; operational
and management improvements; and a training institute for land development
and water management. The major objectives of the proposed project would be
to achieve an economic use of scarce surface water resources and to ensure a
reliable and equitable supply to individual farmers. In order to meet these
objectives, planning, design, construction, implementation and management of
the irrigation systems would be improved under the project. Under the first
Gujarat Irrigation Project (Credit 808-IN), a special set of criteria for
improved planning, design, construction and operation of the medium irrigation
schemes covered by the project were agreed with GOG. These and additional
criteria would be adopted for all the components under the proposed project
(Section 2.07 (a) of the Project Agreement). They were developed after a
comprehensive review of the performance of existing irrigation projects in
Gujarat (see "India - Staff Appraisal Report - Second Gujarat Irrigation
Project, Volume II - Sectoral Background," Report No. 2843a-IN, dated April 9,
1980).
43.       The criteria would establish specifications to ensure that all new
irrigation projects would be planned and designed to such standards that the
water would be supplied to each farm in the command area in a reliable and
timely fashion with a minimum of losses in conveyance between the dam and the
plant. Programs for modernization of existing projects would be geared to
raise current distribution and water use efficiencies. Responsibilities both
for systems/operation and for the development of agriculture in the command
area would be vested in a newly established separate command area development
wing in the Agricultural Department of GOG and special circles in the exist-
ing command area development authorities for the Project systems. Water
allocation and operational procedures that would help promote equity and
efficiency inside the command areas would be introduced. More comprehensive
technical, agricultural and socioeconomic investigations would be carried out
as the basis for project planning.
44.       The project was prepared by GOG, with substantial assistance by
Bank staff. It was appraised in September 1979. A supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report in two volumes entitled "India -
Staff Appraisal Report - Gujarat Irrigation II Project", Report No. 2843-IN,
dated April 9, 1980 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1980. The Borrower and GOG were
represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S.C. Jain, Director, Department
of Economic Affairs, GOI.



- 16 -
The Project
45.       The proposed project would consist of financing a five-year time-
slice (April 1980 - April 1985) of Gujarat's investment program for irrigation,
as far as this program is not covered under the (First) Gujarat Irrigation
Project (US$85 million credit of July 17, 1978; Cr. 808-IN, see paragraph 40
above) which focussed on GOG's development program for medium irrigation
schemes. The project would have three main components. They would be located
in distinctly different areas of the State: In the backward southeastern parts
of mainland Gujarat, construction of three on-going major irrigation schemes
(Karjan, Heran, and Damanganga) would be continued and the village-to-market
road network in their command areas would be improved. On the fertile coastal
plain of southern Gujarat, the existing Ukai-Kakrapar irrigation scheme,
Gujarat's largest, would be modernized. Along the Saurashtra coast, where a
very productive area irrigated from wells is threatened by intrusion of saline
groundwater from the sea, catchment protection and construction of irrigation
facilities would comprise the third main component of the proposed project.
46.       Under the new-schemes-component of the project, construction work on
three major dams would be financed. The Damanganga and Heran dams are comprised
of earth fill embankments with clay cores to impermeable bed-rock, and masonry
non-overflow and spillway sections provided with drainage galleries. The spill-
way gates are of radial design and operable by both electric powered and manual
lift mechanisms. The Karjan dam was originally designed as a masonry struc-
ture, but is now planned for concrete construction. The design and construc-
tion methods of the dams have been reviewed by GOI and IDA and found adequate
from the standpoint of structural stability, functional efficiency and safety.
To ensure continued adequacy of design and construction, GOG would maintain
its existing independent panel of experts who would periodically examine the
concept, the design and the construction of the dams and spillways. After
their completion, these structures would be periodically inspected to deter-
mine whether there are any deficiencies in their condition or in the quality
and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation, which may endanger their
safety (Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement). The dams are designed to
store surplus monsoon inflow during July through September for later releases
during the rabi and hot weather seasons and for early kharif waterings. The
Heran Dam would also provide carry-over storage from one year to another.
Water supply in all the schemes is adequate for the proposed cropping pattern.
Some 86 villages would be submerged by the project reservoirs and their present
population of about 5,700 farm families would be resettled under the project.
GOG has a well developed policy for land acquisition, resettlement and rehab-
ilitation of families displaced by major irrigation schemes. The most impor-
tant feature of this policy is not the monetary compensation for property lost
but the aim of rehabilitating dislplaced families by providing alternative means
for their future livelihood. For the reservoirs under the proposed project,
GOG would, as part of its resettlement plan, allocate land suitable for cul-
tivation to the farmers to be resettled from the Heran, Karjan and Damanganga
reservoir areas (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement). In the allocation
of irrigable land and the provision of irrigation facilities, preference
would be given to those farmers, whose submerged land had been irrigated.
New village sites are fixed in consultation with the displaced families, and



- 17 -
include amenities such as water and power supply, roads, school and community
buildings.
47.       The entire conveyance systems of the Heran and Karjan schemes would
be lined from the dam intake down to irrigation turnouts serving approximately
8 ha blocks, in order to ensure a timely and reliable water supply to all
farmers in the command area. The lining would reduce conveyance losses and
maintenance and, more importantly, would allow improved operation of the
system. The Damanganga scheme, with high rainfall, ample water available in
the river and relatively impermeable soils, would be lined on a selective
basis. The distribution system from minors down would be in pipes wherever
sufficient natural head is available (Damanganga 30-40%, Heran 10-20%, and
Karjan 20-30% of the culturable command area). Chak sizes would be based on
topography, soils, cropping patterns and farm sizes but would not normally
exceed 20 ha. Measuring devices would be provided throughout the systems down
to the chak outlet. All-weather service roads or bicycle/motorcycle paths
would be provided along all channels according to size. A radio-telephone
communication system would be provided. Planning and construction of field
drains within the chaks and drains connecting to the main drainage system
would proceed concurrently with the distribution system.
48.       The road program under the new-schemes-component would comprise
improvements to about 237 km of existing roads, reconstruction of about 138 km
of roads and tracks and construction of some 204 km of new roads. The network
would be plranned so as to provide all-weather road access within a distance of
about 3 km to almost all parts of the command areas and to villages having over
1,500 inhabitants. Existing road alignments and new canal embankments would be
utilized whenever technically and economically appropriate. Village centers
would be by-passed as far as possible. All roads would have adequate drainage,
hard shoulders and waterbound macadam pavements with black top surfacing. In
addition to the project roads, wherever necessary, GOG would upgrade to appro-
priate road standards, in phase with project road development, existing black
top roads that constitute essential links in the networks (Section 2.07 (b))
of the Project Agreement).
49.       The Ukai-Kakrapar modernization component of the proposed project
would comprise, over a five-year period, a complete package of works in specific
areas of the Kakrapar part of the command. Irrigation, drainage and road
infrastructure in this part of the scheme was constructed to standards prevail-
ing in the early 1950s, and its upgrading to more modern standards, together
with the introduction of improved management practices, could yield exception-
ally high benefits. In a staged approach, necessitated by the on-going agri-
cultural production in the area and designed to optimize the data base for
decisions affecting large areas, distributaries would be enlarged and select-
ively lined, all minors and sub-minors down to chaks of manageable sizes would
be lined, drainage works would be constructed or improved on a sub-catchment
basis, and necessary control structures and measuring devices would be con-
structed. These works would be implemented in two blocks of 9,820 and 28,200
ha, respectively, in the Kakrapar Right Bank Area and in the 14,000 ha command
of the Umbrath Branch canal of the Kakrapar Left Bank Area. Some 5,000 ha of
salt-affected coastal lands at the tail-ends of the distribution system would
be protected from tidal flows, provided with irrigation and drainage works, and
then fully reclaimed. A special feature of the Umbrath Branch modernization
would be a pilot operation with farmer participation. It would test the



- 18 -
technical, administrative and economic feasibility of conjunctive use of
groundwater and surface water. Drainage works would be completed for about
20,000 ha of the 50,000 ha Surat Branch Canal command in the Kakrapar Left
Bank area to remove serious waterlogging. A program for construction or
rehabilitation of about 190 km of command area roads in the i:rigation areas
to be modernized is also included in the project.
50.       The Saurashtra component of the proposed project would be part of a
comprehensive scheme, developed by GOG, for water conservation, direct irri-
gation and artificial recharge along the southern coast of Saurashtra, which
has been adversely affected by the intrusion of saline groundwater from the
sea. The scheme includes a comprehensive package of run-off conservation
measures and small reservoirs for direct irrigation. Under the scheme, IDA
assistance over a five-year period would focus on the following components:
construction of 14 tidal regulators at the mouths of the rivers and provision
of lift irrigation facilities at the reservoirs; and construction of about 150
small check dams along nallas and rivers and of about 1,000 small check struc-
tures across natural drains. A reservoir scheme for regulated releases to
downstream lift schemes would also be included. About 10,000 ha of government
waste land and community owned land in the upper catchment areas, where slopes
are too steep for cultivation would be afforested. In support of the scheme,
GOG will undertake a research and demonstration program for developing and
introducing water-conserving irrigation techniques to reduce groundwater use,
and for growing more salt-resistant fruit crops in areas where the groundwater
is already saline.
51.       In 1978/79, GOG introdured Rotational Water Supply (RWS, i.e. to
farmers in the same outlet command) as a pilot scheme on three of the minors
of the Mahi-Kadana Right Bank Command, with encouraging results. Since RWS
would be the basis for operation of the new projects financed from the pro-
posed credit, it would be essenti-al that sufficient experience can be gained
rapidly. Consequently, the proposed project includes the required works
(primarily construction of cross regulators, measuring devices and group
outlets within the chaks) on an area of about 60,000 ha, about half of which
would be in the Mahi-Kadana command.
Project Implementation
52.       Planning and implementation of the new irrigation schemes and the
main civil works in the Saurashtra Coastal Development Scheme would be the
direct responsibility of the GOG Irrigation Department. The Irrigation Depart-
ment is organized into six branchoes, headed by Chief Engineers (five of whom
are also Joint Secretaries) who work under the guidance of the Secretary,
Irrigation. The Irrigation Projects Branch is responsible for planning, design
and construction of all medium and some major irrigation projects in the State.
It would be responsible for implementing the Saurashtra component of the proj-
ect. The Projects Banch's responsibilities cover selected major projects in
central Gujarat, including the Heran and Karjan schemes. The Narmada Branch
is in charge of planning and consi:ruction of the Narmada project, part of which
has been proposed, tentatively, for Bank Group financing at a later stage. The
Damanganga Branch is responsible for implementing the Damanganga scheme. The



- 19 -
Irrigation Branch operates all major and medium irrigation schemes and assists
local authorities in the design and construction of minor irrigation projects.
It has also planned, and started to implement, the Ukai-Kakrapar modernization
component of the proposed project. The Irrigation Department's construction
organization is flexible and adjusted to the implementation program. It's
branches are divided into construction circles, each headed by a Superintending
Engineer. Each construction circle has a design office, which prepares all
designs of canals and minor canal structures for the circle. The Central
Design Organization, under three Superintending Engineers, prepares detailed
designs of earth and masonry dams and major canal structures, and formulates
design standards and provides typical designs for minor canals and canal
structures to the construction circles. In 1977, a Project Preparation and
Monitoring Cell, with a multidisciplinary staff, was established within the
Irrigation Department (then a branch of the Public Works Department) to
integrate agricultural development aspects in the planning of irrigation
projects. This Cell would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the
proposed project. Its activities would include a variety of hydrological,
agricultural and economic measurements and data tabulation, on a continuous
basis, both during and after project execution. Work programs for the
planning organization would be formulated annually. Under the proposed
project, funds from the US$10 million project preparation component (paragraph
60 below) would also be made available to GOG to finance eligible expenditures,
for the next two years, of Narmada development preparation.
53.       The Building and Communications Department of GOG would survey, plan,
design, supervise construction, and maintain the command area roads in close
consultation with the CAD Administrators (see paragraph 54 below). Two Command
Area Roads Circles would be created to be engaged exclusively on command area
road works. Maintenance of these roads is currently the resonsibility of the
semi-autonomous Panchayats. Since this arrangement has not been satisfactory,
responsibility for maintaining all project roads as well as all existing roads
forming an integral part of the command area road networks, would be transferred
to the Building and Communications Department.
54.       Operation and maintenance of the completed irrigation and drainage
networks under the Project are the responsibility of Command Area Development
Authorities (CADAs) within the Department of Agriculture, in addition to
their tasks of on-farm development and coordination of agricultural supporting
services. There are currently three such CADAs in existence, one each for the
Mahi-Kadana Scheme, for Ukai-Kakrapar, and for smaller schemes in Saurashtra
and North Gujarat and each headed by an Area Development Commissioner. Special
circles are being established within the existing CADAs for the Damanganga,
Heran and Karjan command areas. In addition, a separate Command Area Develop-
ment Wing for water management is being set up in the Agricultural Department,
initially with staff deputed from the Irrigation and Agricultural Departments,
with the ultimate objective to transform the Wing into a separate department
for water management with its own cadre of land development and water manage-
ment specialists. These specialists would be recruited from graduates of a
training program in water management and land development, which GOG would
commence under the project as a first step in a long-term program to build
up a professional cadre for irrigation management. The project would assist
the establishment of a new training institute for land development and water



- 20 -
management, and would provide financing for residential and training accommo-
dation, equipment, incremental staff salaries and training allowances, consul-
tant services and, to a limited extent, overseas training for the institute's
staff. The training program would commence not later than October 1, 1981
(Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement) and 700 students are expected to be
trained by 1985.
Agricultural Supporting Services
55.       Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Gujarat Agri-
cultural University, whose four campuses are located in different agroclimatic
zones. The university has seven main research stations, specializing in differ-
ent crops, and about 50 regional stations. Research on irrigated agriculture
is carried out primarily at the Navsari campus of the university, located in
the Ukai-Kakrapar command, and on 15 trial-cum-demonstration farms. The main
focus of this research has been on water requirements in relation to soil
types, climate and critical stages of crop growth.
56.       Agricultural extension is the responsibility of the Department of
Agriculture. The administrative set-up is presently being reorganized, with
financial assistance from IDA under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (US$25 million credit of February 16, 1979; Cr. 862-IN) in accordance
with the new Training-and-Visit-System. Under the new schemes, village level
workers (who are the primary contact with the farmers) would work only on
extension, covering 500 to 800 families, through a system of visiting groups
of 60-100 farmers every two weeks cn a regular schedule.
57.       There is a well developed system for distribution and sale of seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides throughcut the State. Certified seeds are produced
by the panchayats and by the State Cooperative Marketing Federation.  They are
distributed primarily through the cooperative marketing societies. Gujarat
is more than self sufficient in fertilizer production. Fertilizers and pesti-
cides are distributed through both cooperative marketing societies and approved
private retailers. Inputs are usually available within easy reach of the
markets.
58.       Gujarat has a well developed system for agricultural marketing and
processing. Most of the trade is through regulated markets, which serve a
specified area, usually within a 10 km radius. About three-quarters of the
storage and processing facilities are owned by the private sector.
59.       The organization for institutional credit to farmers follows the
normal pattern in India. Sihort and medium term credit is provided by the
cooperative banks. The State Cooperative Land Development Bank, with about
182 branches, provides long term credit. Commercial Banks, which provide all
types of credit, account for about 15% of all loans to farmers.
GOI Project Preparation Fund
60.       Over the coming years GOI and the State Governments intend to step
up their investment programs for irrigation substantially. Preparation of
projects under these programs to modern standards would involve substantial
expenditures for consultant services, equipment, selected pilot operations



- 21 -
and incremental staff cost for the establishment or strengthening of Project
Preparation and Monitoring Cells at the Center and in the States. Since many
of the future schemes would be proposed for Bank Group financing, the proposed
project would include a US$10 million fund for the preparation of such future
irrigation schemes including Narmada development in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.
Project Cost and Financing
61.       The estimated total cost of the project, including the GOI project
preparation fund, is US$360.0 million equivalent. Taxes and duties included
in the cost estimate are negligible. The foreign exchange component of project
cost is estimated at US$59.0 million (16%). The principal cost components,
net of physical and price contingencies and of engineering and administration,
are: construction of new major schemes (US$156.2 million), Ukai-Kakrapar
modernization (US$31.4 million) and Saurashtra coastal development (US$27.2
million). The balance is made up by the training institute (US$3.8 million),
operational improvements (US$2.4 million), monitoring and evaluation (US$1.8
million), engineering and administration (US$33.9 million), physical contin-
gencies (US$29.0 million), price contingencies (US$64.3 million), and prep-
aration of future irrigation projects (US$10.0 million).
62.       The proposed credit of US$175 million would cover 49% of total
project cost, including all foreign exchange cost and 39% of local cost.
COG would finance the remaining project cost. The proceeds of the credit
would be used to finance: civil works (US$125.5 million); equipment and
vehicles (US$28.0 million); training, and monitoring and evaluation (US$6.5
million); and preparation of future irrigation projects (US$10.0 million).
The remaining US$5.0 million would be left unallocated.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       The proposed project includes about US$174 million worth of civil
works (net of contingencies and engineering and administration). Of these,
contracts totalling US$40 million for dams and main canals in excess of US$6
million per contract would be let following international competitive bidding.
To encourage participation of small contractors, tenders would be designed
to allow alternative tendering on individual schedules. For bid evaluation,
a preference of 7.5% would be granted to Indian contractors. Tender documents
would specify this preference and the manner of its application. Four of
the eighteen ongoing multiyear contracts for construction elements of dams
and main canals, awarded after January 1979, when a pre-appraisal mission
identified them as components of the project, on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding in accordance with standard GOG procurement procedures, have
been found acceptable for financing under the project. The value of work
under these contracts, outstanding as of April 1, 1980 and eligible for
financing under the project would be about US$3.4 million worth. 1/ The
remaining civil works (US$130 million) are individually small, scattered over
1/   The remaining fourteen contracts were ineligible because they were let
before January 1979 and/or not in accordance with Bank Group procurement
guidelines. The cost of these contracts, about US$20 million, are
included in Total Project Cost (paragraph 61 above).



- 22 -
a large area and carried out interimittently as determined by weather conditions
and agricultural activities. Therefore, US$98 million worth of these works
would be carried out by local contractors, after local competitive bidding on
the basis of standardized competitive bidding procedures and guidelines
recently developed by GOI's Central Water Commission and approved by the
Association. The balance of these civil works (US$32 million) would involve a
variety of technical constraints wlaich would make these works impractical for
tendering. They would be carried out under small piecework contracts or by
force account. Force account, limited to US$16 million equivalent, would be
used only if required by safety or quality considerations or when the quanti-
ties are exceptionally difficult to estimate in advance.
64.       The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment to be procured under
the project is approximately US$28 million. Of this total, equipment valued
at about US$20 million (all heavy equipment and instrumentation) would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding. A preference limited to 15%
or the prevailing customs duty if lower would be extended to local manufac-
turers in the evaluation of bids. The equipment and vehicles will be grouped
to promote efficiency and attract competition; however, bids will also be
accepted on individual schedules to attract small manufacturers. The balance
(US$8 million), comprising light equipment and vehicles, would be procured
locally after local competitive bidding, in order that they could benefit
from existing servicing and spare parts supply benefits.
65.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles and against the
ex-factory price when procured locally. Where the ex-factory price is not
readily available, 70% of expenditure would be reimbursed. Disbursements for
civil works would be 70% in the case of expenditures incurred up to March 31,
1983 (which marks the end of the current Five-Year Plan), and 50% thereafter.
For training, and monitoring and evaluation, all foreign and 70% of local
expenditures would be reimbursed. Eligible expenditures for the preparation
of future projects would be fully reimbursed. Full documentation would be
required for all disbursements, except for payments of up to Rs 300,000
for civil works and Rs 150,000 for equipment and vehicles, and for force
account, as well as for expenditures for the preparation of future projects,
for which disbursements would be made against certificates of expen-
diture. The supporting documents for these payments would not be submitted
to IDA but would be retained by GOG or, in the case of project preparation
expenditures, by GOI and the concerned State Governments for inspection by
IDA review missions. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
June 30, 1986.
Benefits and Economic Justification
66.       The proposed investment would lead to completion of three ongoing
major irrigation schemes, modernization of Gujarat's largest irrigation scheme,
increased irrigation potential for coastal areas in Saurashtra, and would
assure operational and management improvements. Expected incremental annual
production of major commodities at full project development is estimated to
be 200,000 tons of foodgrains, 20,000 tons of cotton and 185,000 tons of fruit.
The project would generate year-round employment opportunities for an addi-
tional 10,500 farm family members, 21,300 landless laborers, and 58,500 workers



- 23 -
in non-farm sectors such as marketing, transport and processing. Net farm
income for the 136,000 directly benefitting farm families in the project area,
which presently averages Rs 990 in the three new major schemes, is expected
to increase to an average of Rs 4,720 (of which about Rs 3,220 would be due
to the project). The percentage of farm families below the poverty line
(US$75), presently about 70% in the project areas, should decline to about 20%.
67.       As a result of the project, local capabilities for the planning,
design, monitoring and evaluation of the irrigation schemes would be strength-
ened. The establishment of formal training and a pilot component would lay
the groundwork for improved and more reliable and equitable water supply to
individual farmers throughout the State which in turn will provide incentives
to farmers to invest in on-farm development. As a whole, the project would
lead to improvements in the efficiency, and thus in the economic returns, of
future developments in Gujarat's irrigation sector.
68.       The economic rate of return has been calculated for each major
scheme or project component. The economic cost of all civil works, equipment,
land acquisition, administration and engineering, operation and maintenance
costs have been included in the derivation of the economic rate of return.
Discounting costs and benefits over a 50 year priod, the economic rate of
return for the project schemes are: Heran, costing US$41.7 million or 19%
of base cost--17%; Karjan, costing US$61.4 million or 29% of base cost--21%;
Damanganga, costing US$53.1 million or 25% of base cost--16%; Ukai-Kakrapar,
costing US$31.4 million or 15% of base cost--20%; and Saurashtra, costing
US$27.2 million or 13% of base cost--18%. The overall economic rate of
return is 18%.
Cost Recovery
69.       The "project rent" (net incremental income less the necessary
rewards to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship and cultivation
risk) is estimated to average about Rs 2,660/ha at full development. The
annual financial requirement to recover total capital cost of the project
and the supplementary on-farm development (at 10% interest over 50 years
for infrastructure and over 10 years for other investments) and O&M expendi-
tures would be Rs 1,733/ha. At current rates, direct and indirect revenue
from the irrigated lands would total Rs 470/ha, equivalent to a total cost
recovery index of 27% and a project rent recovery index of 18%. However,
this overrates the net impact of the project cost on the budget since the
increased farm incomes would lead to further increases in GOG and GOI revenues
through other indirect taxes. Under the project, such incremental revenues
from non-agricultural taxes would be about Rs 250/ha. Also, if these taxes
are taken into account, the project cost recovery increases to about 42%.
70.       In general, volumetric water rates should promote a more efficient
water use than area-based water charges, but the unlined distribution systems
existing at present permit neither a reliable irrigation supply nor an accurate
measurement of the water supplied to each farmer. The new technical standards
for the distribution network and the rotational water supply introduced under
the credit are specifically designed to ensure that each farmer in the command
areas receives a fixed volume of water in a reliable fashion. Thus, it would
be technically feasible to charge the farmers on a volumetric basis.  When the



- 24 -
farmer is allocated a fixed amount of water, he tends to select his crops and
his intensity of irrigation in such a way that he optimizes his returns to
water. In the absence of major distortions in the price structure of major
crops, this allocation system generally leads to an efficient use of water.
Conversely, an area based water charge provides an incentive to the farmer
to use his water allocation on a smaller area than would be desirable from
society's point of view. Consequently, area-based charges might adversely
affect production if they are set at too high a level. Volumetric charges
would allow farmers to vary their c1-ops and the irrigated area to maximize the
private and social returns to water irrespective of the level of water charges.
Efficiency considerations, therefore, imply that the introduction of a charge
related to the volume of water delivered is of high priority. Consequently,
by December 31, 1981, GOG would review the water and water-related charges in
the State and, based on the outcome of the review and after paying due regard
to IDA's comments, it would begin to experiment with different systems of
volumetric charges. By December 31, 1984, when GOG will have evaluated the
experience from these experiments, and if their results have been favorable,
GOG would start implementing a volumetric system of charges in all areas of
the project (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement). The level of these
charges would be set to recover, to the extent possible, the cost of the
irrigation infrastructure; at the same time, due consideration would be given
to farmers' incentives and payment capacity and to the overall budgetary
requirements of the State.
Project Risks
71.       The project would be implemented by agencies with proven experi-
ence who would employ criteria for its design construction and operation
that take into account the experience gained in many years of irrigation
development and which represent substantial improvements over those now in
use. Given these considerations and the commercial orientation of project
area farmers, the risks associated with the project are small and acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Gujarat, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
April 9, 1980                                           By
Ernest Stern






ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S                         Page  1  of  5
RhPERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 01.)                inu                             - NOST RECENT ESTIMATE) L4
TOTAL           3287.6                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGEICULTURAL    Is1S.3                                MOST RECT       GEOGRAPRIC    INCOME     INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     UEGION L    GROW /d   GROUP A
GNP PU CAPITA (US$)                   60.0        90.0    180.0            191.1      209.6       467.5
ESUOY CONSUM0TION PER CAPITA
(ILOGRMS o0 COAL EQKIVALUT)        142.0       181.0     218.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPOLATION. NID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9       547.6     631.7 L
DuAl  POPULATION (PERCUT or TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      20.7            13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJETONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MLIONS)                       973.0
SIATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1643.0
TEAR STATIORARY POPULATION 1S REACD                   2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IN.                      132.0       167.0     192.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PrR SQ. 124. AGRICULTURAL LAID    247.0      308.0     347.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                         40.8        42.5      42.0            44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 nS.                         55.7        54.6      55.0            52.4        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.5          2.9       3.0             3.1        3.0         2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.3       2.1             2.4        2.4         2.7
URaAN                              2.5,^       3.3       3.1             4.1        4.6         4.3
CRM30E BIRTH RATE (PER TaoUsND)     43.0        40.0      35.0            44.4       42.4        39.4
CRIDE DEATR RATE (PER THOUSAIW)     21.0        17.0      14.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         2.9       2.4             3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0      3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED UOKEN)   ..         12.0      16.9             7.9       12.2        13.2
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEM  CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0       102.0     101.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT Of
RtEQUREM4ENTS)                  95.0        92.0      89.0            93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAT)         51.0         53.0     48.0             56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICE ANIMAL AaD PULSE       19.0        16.0      12.6            10.4       13.6        17.4
CHRLD (AGES 1-4) MOTALITY RATE      28.0        22.0      18.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
H.EALTR
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BERTH (YE4RS)    43.0        48.0      51.0           49.1        49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        134.0        .1 ..                   105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *      17.0         33.0            31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                               *-        60.0      83.0            63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..         6.0      20.0            20.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5s8OO..    4ss890.0    3135.0          7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     963O.O/    5220.0   6320.0           12064.0     5552.4      1522.1
POPUATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2590o.0c    2020.0    1231.0          2738.4     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               ..         ..                                 197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..    2445.9        1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..           ..        ..             ..        24.8        Z7.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         ..        5.2             ..         5.3         5.4
'JUAN                              5.2         ..        4.8             ..         4.9         5.1
RLRAL                              5.2         ..        5.3             ..         5.4        5.5
AVERAGE HNUMBER OF PERSONS PER RO00M
-OTAL                              2.6         2.3       ..
JRBAN                               ..         ..         ..
RURAL                               .           ..       ...
ACCESS TO -LECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF  WFELL.NGS)
TOTAL                               ..         2. ..                     ..        Z2.5         S.1
TESAN                              ..          ..        ..             ..        (7.6        45.1
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLME1T RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 61.0        72.0      79.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
MALE                 80.0        87.0      94.0            74.9        79.1        87.3
FEHALE               40.0        55.0      63.0            43.7        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 20.0        29.0      28.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
MALE                 30.0        39.0      38.0            27.8        22.1        33.0
FEIALE               10.0        17.0      18.0            10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  8.0          6.OL      ..              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0        40.0      42.0            42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0        17.0        ..              ..        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.0      36.0             25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.0       1.2             2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0      24.0            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.1       0.5              ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        16.0      16.0             6.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0         6.3       3.8              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
MTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0   226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE '(PERCENT)                 31.3        32.6      32.2            21.4       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0        73.0      73.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0      11.0             9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0        40.2      39.2            35.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                57.1        52.3      51.3             52.3       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              27.9        27.1      26.2            15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1              1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/1      ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.971      ..              ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.77       ..              ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.27       ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      83.0            86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      73.0            74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER. CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0            50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTILMTED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IYCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
CRBAN                               ..          ..      47.0            44.3       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      52.0            52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of coumtries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia;  /d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1978 mid-year population is estimated aL 640.4 =illion;   /j  1951-60;   !h  1962;
1958; S j  1967;  /k  1978 mid-vear lalbor force is estimated at 261 million;   '1  196465.
Most Recenc Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



ANNEX 
PEttNrITIIN   OF SOCIAL iEpICATORS                                                                   Page   3   of   5
Notes:  Although the data are drau  fce soures generally judged the met auth-iathe and reliable,it thold also he noted that they asp sot ho ist.oen-
tiocaily cosaps-sle becaue of the hack of etasdmdioed deftoitions aod concpts usd by diffeectcutrie  h  -olletisg the dts. The data are, aco-theleos,
useftil to deo-ie orders of -9gsitsde, hodiomte treado, acd oharstero- certal_mjo  differbesro                     ee    _ -.
The adjsoe   rupscso  for each htdicator are poplatios-eghted geoseteho men,  cldig the eotre-  oslues of the bodic-to- and the  -ot populated
ocutry ho  sob grouP.  Dit to lark of date, goupacer~- of all iedi-atore far Capitl harplos Oil Eooters end of indicator  of Access tc Wtter and trE-ts
hispooi, Pousicg, born.e Clatrihutios ard Pheety for other oustry groups ar  poplatics-eightedi geomtric ocan  uihakot etc luso  of the eutr-o  onuosd
the sot  psssltd routry.  Shoce the coeaeofcutie   mo  the iodheatera depeod  on avilahility cf data and is sot u-hfcr-. outi- eust be eoerc1oh
in relatiog oesge  of ou  id_oto_ to anthe.The. asavrges are inotly usefu  asapchsha f "e-ptetd" values ahe..sae                                         the osue  of 00
IAND0 AREA (oh-uud sq-ha.)                                                                    ocAs to TEoreta Dhsposl  ( poroest of popula1tiot) - totti. orhr  sadrua-
Total - Total  -srf-  arro orplh           -ad are  sad island eaters.                        umeofppl(totl, urba, and rur) seed by  -erta diop-l as
Agriculturl -  W-it retes  eatiate of egeh-utura  are  used teisperaily                      peerstge- of their  -epecti-e poplatiths.. oreta disposal eq  teoludI
to pe-emettly f- or-rp, pauture, macht and kitchen gardens or to                           the -clletioo sad disposal1, aith or etoh-t treetanot,of hk.n             ... eorte
lie fllie.                                                                                 and sate-eater by eater-horse systea  or the usetfpitporces end c-iolar
GNP PEP CAPITA (hSd) - 1V Per capita eatteatt  oh crent. erht prices,                        Po     ellato  pe   l0iin.Puoaibdcdd  pone   fpacilgpyiin
t                         ca~~~~~~~lunted by on  ccvr' nthod at Wcrld Bank Atlas (1976-78 basis);                      1ualifhEd fro-  a -edica   cha  at unkorsty level
1960, 1970, eoo 1978 data.                                                                 P.pe  tios per Nursig Presto - Ppulatioo divided by ooi-ertof peacticig male
ENERGYi CONSUPITSION PER CAPITA - AnsuI -ot-pti-s of co-orcial oeegy                           and feene grsdoate tes,prathoal cures, sod saoit_art--eo
(coal sad 11igit, tipeveoloun,  etuel gat and hydvo-, oucleu  sad geo-Pculatios el Hospital hed -  , toal  urban  and rurl - Ppolatlco Itotu.1  urLoc,
th-era    ivtrocot) it kiloen   of coa  oqulv-lect Per caPita; 196o,                         sad ru-I) divided by thei- epcio   ubro  hosia   ctsahhci
1970, sod 1976 Ants.                                                                        public and prct   ee           o PeoaIced hoopislsd roohiiitot-oto-t-ro
koipits.t are eutsliishnttt peranetly staf fed by at beotcc  thyso
PbPUiTCION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                tbtalish-ets providbg peiocipalby  usttd-Il  -ae se  sot i_toluded  bet
Total Popj~ltioo. Mid-Year (mliions) - At of July 1; 1b60, 1970, and                         hoapitai, h.aver   iso1ude health sod eods-1  -ett-  oot pc_anotly otaff,d
1977 datn.                                                                                byapyioan (hut by a. medica  asitast,  ura, midaife, etc.) ohioh offer
rbehu  Popultbon   P.-00th of total) - Rtso of urban to total pophatios;                     inpatient n       sdatihocad prolde a limited rage of medica  friiitiet
differoct hofointiotoof urtn  -r-t  ma ffect o-parability of data                       Adnsi-ns per  "cpital bed - Tota  hunte  of  dnii-  to tor dit-harge- froc
teogcoust-it;hOl 1970, sod 1975 dot,.                                                      ho-pitaht divided by the ounber of teds.
"Poplot kooPro 0         000HOSIN
Popohatocis prur% 00      - Correct populatlos pro)jectioss are based to              ObldN
1975 total  poltistho  by age and too sac their eotality and fertility                Avrae lice of Houshold (peso-  per household) - total,  rba, and rural-
r_te-  Projeotioc ps--ste-  for cetlity rates coepriseof theeo                          A houshold ..osists of a group of itdhi-duu ubo share hlitig quartere sa
_otsI suno  lif e.pectanop at birth ilecre.tieg eith coutry s                          their uni  noals   A boarder or lodger eq  or asp not he ioli,dd is the
pee  -spta  -o-o  hooc, nod feeshe iife -opctanoy  tbailislig at                        ho.sebId for    tisti-al purposes-
y7. pesr.  The pa-ent-r  for fertility rate a1- hae- thr-  Ier-I.                  drsccbeof peroc  pe-om   otl   ra,an   ua- oeeooc
atuat  doliri  it fe-tility a-crding to ihse-  ie-I and past                            of persooc pe  r oto  is  l  uban, ad rural  -cpoid t-vetti...oh d-elhico.,
faellp clacohg perfcro- . Ehac   cuntey ic tbes  assigned c-  ofthese                   respectively.         e g    clude  t-pe--not  trututres and uto-uptd por:
nineoca.bhaatioo of  -otalitp  sod fertility toothsd for projectice                   Aocem  to Eleoteicity (por-ost of d-efIiPgs) - total, ibrha, sid oral.  -    Po
I"put-ottl-eal d-ligs  ihth electricity ho I-ivig qourter  as percetogoi
ItutittopcopiistIo   -b  t ithtito-c   Poplntic- thoeeise.gr-etb                    total, urban, and rual d-ell-gi.. reuect_ioy.
okec- the hbrth osto is eqosl to the heath rate, and slat the age
o=t-utr  roei-b  --tolt. This is achieved osly after fertility retos                EDUCATIOIN
-ohc   so the rePIe-omect Ic-el of o-it tet reproduotise rate, abet                Adjusted Pnru1hmot Patios
rac  g--rti-o of .c.et rephnoc-  it-lf e-atly.  The statioha"y pope-                    Pel-y school -  .totl, male sad femae   O--Goa  totsl, sale sad feuh lec i
h ,ntiooolrestetimated 00 the ba-ie of the projected obarat-rlti-s                       soto ll age  at tho p-iesy le-e  noperetagos cf reproti   pr-sy
of tho populatloc is the y-5  2000, sad the rate of deoldac of fertdiliy                   orhool-age pcpu.iatot; --rIaly is-ludvo cidd-o  aed k-il y-an  hut
roet   epaoot lbIvo                                                              ndjuatod for differect hosgtbo of peheemp 1 edctihco;" ,orut-voeoith
Ibesro1tit-srypplto  soreached - The pear shot etati ..s  population                         unvrn   dctio    soictapece     poret _ c:_so e sooopu
ti-e hc bhoe  reahed.                                                                      arebls  rah- the offbil school ago.
Popohatiot lets,tp                                                    lecandary sc~Z hctl1 - total, male and female - Computed t: nI. 0;ooo::r
Per t. h. - Mid-pea  popuisoic  Per t0uaes~ioaoter (100 heot-ce) of                          eductito requires at leach fou  years of appocoed priour  Potrot_
'tota  ara5p-oodes gesreal cunti...al, ortecher t_aisirg issloutio.n!  0  tpipii
Por s.iol.  agiuhutln   - Compted as aboe for agricultura  land                              usually jo  2to 17 pears of age;  --rep-adeo,oeotreon                 n oer_lhy
coil'.                                                                                     -esluded.
Pou liathoovbtrtcaurserernt).- Childess (0-hiers,4                  ric-g                    Vocati=ta  es..olIest (000000 uf secooday) - V-uti-t1 i-oti-uti-ti-ihdr
(15ly6   ai,  and retc   b5 peart sad 00r) no poeetas o f aid-your                           truhi-ca, iodstrial, or other prigrn   soich op-erte iodcp-ottpJo  n
popuatIo; d9G,  970, sa   977 dots.                                                     departanot  of secondary iantitutiooa.
,Poplatlco Groth Rse  pecet -L total   A-Iu a  groeh rat-t of total ald-                     Poi-eoertt-piay   n   ends.ry - Ttsl etuloote r-1o1id
yerPopuatioc  fr 190b, 19b0_7h, and 1970-77.                                              prier  and tecoday le-e1a diebded by na,tert of t-ahert irn thcore
Poualoirahht  (eoet) - irha  - unta1 growth inlet of urha                                        odiag hoe-ls.
populatio.s for 1950-kb, l1960-70, and 1970-75.                                           .du1l litenoy onto (percet) - lIterte aduhts (able to read nod orit)t
Crude Birto Palt   ar- thouad) - Aunualihoc hirtho per thoucun  of  bid-                       apeoatgc tf total adut popuhatioc pgrd 11 yur  and00.
year Ppo,latino; 1Iqb, 1970, and 1977 data.
Crude loath Rate (pee tho.osa.d) - Atnual doho per thoo-ad of oil-your                  ChNSiPTIlN
Eoptihalo; 19b0, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                 Pa-so`ger Cur  (Per thousad  ouait(-paisesger cto-  o-pei-e  -t-r  -rt
Grosi Rp-oh-tio  Rate - A-erge auno  of dnughtv  a~ u                -11ih  hbs              seating Ies  than eight pees-o;  -cluis  anbclan-, hears-  and siLitry
ither oc Ia -oprod-to- period of shepe-lece  prect ag-rhi-be-
sPecifi  fertil,ity rates; uoIly Tirye-pour  aeges  diag it 196o,                       Radio Peceiver  (per thousand population) - ill types of reeier  f-c rout
i97l, sad 1915.                                                                           broadoasto  to g_nera  plio   e  thcuand of popuhtioc; etchodos ushe--
Rankly Plantiog -      Actookoul(th-tudo) - Asoonn eiubor of                                 recei-erisona-ri-  and it y-srs abet -egitatics tf ridioctass,
_ceptoo  hirtb-__tro    deie          _ne upi-e  of oslIosa.l fanily                      effect; dats for reot years eq  tot be  -up ... le sloc  0.-tdsor
plarichog progeun.                                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~boliehbt  litc...itg.
Penly P1-iag  --Ues)pretofcridaao  -iPorentago of savoed                                TV-okor   cr huad psoplatiot) - TV r-ci-ee  fsr brosod-it1tt.0riL
_cet of ohild-heuriogae(5kb            _ns   h. -t  bieth-cooteol d-eho-                   pblio Per thousan d popolatlus; et-1ude- uliceoed TP  .. rcic-rnooore
to all  -aried oomeo itsne age group.                                                      an d is yea aobe. registrati_on   f T  sets ass ho effect.
Nloapape Chroulantion (per thousand ouWeutto..) - Shoot the  --rge oircultk-
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~f dail  geera  interealasopaer ,dfined as aPeriodica  pobhiottlo
Itd-oo  fo  Prd-ti-o per Ctpita (196i9-71-100) - Inder of p              eepitap*a           d-ected pileuity tc re-ordiag goner-leo            ItC  i -esde-ed to hedoly
anua  p-ed-itio- of all fcd ooaodi_         _. Prod-ctiot eseldes seed and                 if it appears at lenit fou  time  a  ..ek.
feed and i. on o-1odhr your bsois.  Csaediti...o..v.e pehst-y goida                     CL.em  An..oal Attehoanc  prCapit  tee Year-hated oi thebe roficot
(eg. sagaroseisatead of sugar)  iic  are edhble aend  -tootis  .ttesta                   sold doritigthyer  incldhg  daisih   to dri-o-iscIte                  an-    o:h
)c..  toffee and tea are  -Iudeo(.  Aggregate produ-tico of  -ah coutry                   unts.
is hnled cc sathooh aveageproduer price. segh~ts.
7cr capita supply of caoies (percet of _eouloemeto) - Compatrd ft..                   LABOR PORCE
energy eqialn   f ceo food aupphi- a-aistlo is ocu..try P               er apita      Total Laher Fso-  (thiuuns -d  Ebc....i-aly active persons,  -olsiog urov
pe  day.  A-silablc suppl-r  c-pri-t doe-tlc prod-tilos, lepocts less                   f-rcaiand  ne:plcy'd' hut  -ooldiog hun eci-r,  etmdrsts, etc. pefai-tt:o:
ccpurtot, and cihnge ,in stock.  Net suppli:es-eclde aniea  feed, seds,                 It vaios  nutei-  ar   oto separable.
quslkio  used is fcod pr.ceoiug, and 1o-e  bh in          tihts        bquire-        Raloco -                -Feal  labnr ftree aspe-oetgo of total labor force
-sttwsree,tiantcd hy Fib biec on phyahologi-al oreds fc  tirnal                                    e        tldti&fR p - labor force is faroicg, f..r.stry, huntiug and
activityan  health -oosldering noi--etal teap.ertur, body  -eghts,                      fhshisgns pertetge of toha1 iabtr force.
ag  sd   dc drtri btboo-  tf popolltios, and ahlosiag hO por-t fir                  I.duatry (percoet) - Labor fcroe is nieig, oetru..t..  io,,  -nofsct-rio  and
sast  eat hoco-hild lse-l.                                                              electricity, aster and gasa  peroetage  ft tolsilbor forte,
Per  arlt  oiply  f pooco   grao pr da) -Pro teri  coto  .pe               Pertldipetios hats (percest)  - ttal   oo   a  fai-lgerti-ipatio  or
capita tot supply of food per day.' Net supply of food is deelned sacticity rates are osptda   ia,el,ad feeslo labor fnroe as Pe-
ahv.-  Roquiremets for.1 all ..tute-esotabliahed byUhSDk pescide far a                   -stges of total, sale and fseale popslatio  of all ages  ",P-ticll;
siniss-  alisoane  f 6b grams if total p_cteit per day sd 00 gran  of                   1960 , 1970, and 1975 data.  Th.ea  are Tint- prti-ipat-csrMesefh t;ing
animal and pulse proteie, of obich 10 gram   hbsaId he anles  prt-eh.                   ago-sea structure of tho puPulatios, and lang tier tread.  A fee  -titestr
Thos  otodrd-d  sere boo  than those of 75 gre-m  of total prteie and                   are fete  eatloa  sources
23 gears of anisa  prttit as an averge for the etd, prapo..ed by PAP                  F.oasmls Dpsadety Patio  -  batin of pnpolsti-  under 15 and 65 sad t,re  to
is thos Third AneId food Surv.ey,                                                       the labor force h inge getup of 15-64 year.
P-ercpita Proteia -oply fs toma  and noise - Protein supply tf food
deie Aftoai    elnd pussl   rasprdy                                              INTOMI DISTRIBUTION
Chld(ges 1-4) Iraiybt       e  prabuad d(-hsa%              etsprtosnd                 Pretm    fPiaeToe  (bobh it sah and hind) - Receied by ricos-t
inaegroup 1-4 yese, to child-o  in this ago group; for  -ct dec-1-                    5  een,rehs   0prst, pooest PC peroect, and pcreot h0 p-resnt
opisgeou,sties dota deri-h feca life tables                                               of hou-bolda.
HElALTHI                                                                                  POVERTY TAbGET GOblTJP
LIf    ecanyaBot'yas  - A-cgo number of pearm  of life                                    Tatianted Abecote Poverty la-oe  InnI(00  see caPita) - urban sod rurad
esoaitig atbirh;    9 WI 9h  an   977. data.                                         Abstiute psee.rty honme  leeI       eta   aoelve   ou   bc      iia
Infant Y-etality Rate (per thousand) - A-..aI deaths if hafants under one                    nutritittally adequate diet plus esasi.tial eth-f cod requirme_o_it          st
yea  ro  age Per thsusad live births.                                                      aff-dbale.
does,- to Inf  Water (oerc-rt o,f PoPulatice  -itttalI urban, ash rer   -                  Estimated Relative P--ety Isutmtyi e      leel (US! per eapita) - uban and rurl
Nbure  tf peopl   total,-ubn.s ualst   eaable  --sa  It                                   bRnal relathe "IPovrt,     ncm   level is ceo-third of ae e pe  capita
safe saner suppl  (inclde  tetdsraeaaeseruraedhtPereseii latt erf the coutry. Urban level is derived frio te rural leo-1
u-rcot.haatod aster suh as that fete p.t-tetd b-ehnle., springs,                            ihb adjusteent for higher cost sf h'ieg ic urban area.
sad sanitary aella) as pe-cetage  of their raspectice poplintloas.                       Estimated Papoletisa Beloa Ahboote Poverty Isct-  ILeve )roestt( - urban and
asuban are  a public funtait or stadpast 1asated nab mare than                           Mrura  - Pseent of pplattob  (urban and rura)  h. are  absalot  pe_r
BO  mters f_c  a h-os  eq he tt-idered as helo, eith.s           ..s..bls
acr es  of that hose   Jo rural aroma rea..sablo anees  asud hply
that the kouseifo or  -ebera of the h.ouseohil dc sot hoes ha speed aEreo.mlo and Snia  Pats Shritio
di,prop.ti-hoate part of the day ia fottbing the f-tlys. aster seeds                                                         hE-ttic  na.lysis sod  Drjie    ep-et-et
August 1979



ANNEX I
XoQoac Dl 3.ohiNW Da                                     Page  4  of  5
GNP PU ChUIA IN 1977: USO 150
ATIOb/                                                                                                                 e/
GROSS NTIONAL PaDuc= IN 1977t78                                                            M      R*52or  cT  (1. contnt prices)
USS zlD.      ,4                                            1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1976/77
CNP at Market Prices           101.47      100.0                                                 3.9                 3.8               3.2
Gross Domestic Invectment       21.65       21.3
Gross National saving           22.77       22.4
Current Account selanco  d/      1.04        1.0
Resource balance   d/          - 0.31        0.3
OUTPVT. I,OR PMCI AND PRODumTV!  IN 1971
Value Addd (at factor colt)         Labor ?ore$             VA, Per Worker
U$ 31.n         I                Nil,.      I              IlS      % of National Average
Ariculturs                       24.5           46.6              130.0    72.1            188 I4
Industry                         11.8           22.3               20.2    11.2            582             199
Services                         16.3           31.1               30.2    16.7            542             i6
Total/average                    52.6          100.0              180.4   100.0             292            100
GOVERNmEu  PINA= C/
Genral Governent                                           Central Governmt
RS. 1ln            %O                                       sA                   fO
177 /7L                   5-                                      1977/78            1974/75-1977/78
Current Receipts                164.42         18.9          18.2                           95.62         11.0           10.5
Current Expenditures            157.29         18.1          16.5                           S5.27         10.9            9.9
Current Surplus/Deficit           7.13          0.8           1.6                            0.35         n.s.            0.6
Capital Expenditures  f/         62.58          7.2           7.0                           43.31          5.0            5.0
Ixternal Assistance (net)  I/     9.82          1.1           1.6                             9.82         1.1            1.6
KOM    CUlTT AND UCBS              1970/71    1973174    1974n      1975/76    1976/77    1977/7S    Sent_ber 1977      Stember 1978
(Rs Billioan outstanding at and of period)
Money and Quasi Money               121.4      198.4      220.3      254.7      308.9      365.1          334.8           395.8
Bank  Credit to Gover;nnt (net)      52.6       87.3       95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7         119.3            139.5
lank Credit to Comrcial Sector       64.6      107.0      126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0         195.3            223.5
(percentage or Index Nutbers)                            January 1978     Januar- 1979
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    30.1       33.5       31.5       34.5       38.8       41.9
Wholesale Price I'dex
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0      139.7     174.9      173.0      176.6       185.8        184.5             1S4.6
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       20.2       25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2              0.1
lank Credit to Government (net)      10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1        9.0       17.7         13.4              16.9
lank Credit to Coinrcial Sector      19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6             14.4
*/ The per capitae GI@ estimte is at sarket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the asverge exchasne rate prevailing during She period covered.
b/ Quick latimtes.
c/ Computed from trend line of 1(P at factor cost series, including one observation before first yer and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ World lank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
./ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advsaces to third parties have been netted out.
B/ Sxternal grants and loans, less principal repsymants, as ricorded in the Central Budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS            1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ million)                                                      USS Mln.        X
Exports of Goods                 4,672      5,753        6,276       6,800              Engineering Gooda              610         11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928       -7,237      -8,400               Tea                           417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777     - 175        - 961      -1,600              Gems                           377          7
NFS (net)                           310       360          650         700               Clothing                      331          6
4                                                                                            Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                 -1,467       185        - 311      -  900                       Products              278          5
i/                                                             Jute Manufactures              267         5
Interest Payments (net)           - 216     - 180         - 50          -               Iron Ore                       265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)          -         -            -           -               Cotton Textiles                248          4
-    Net Transfers  jI                   470        730       1,400       1,300               Sugar                         244          4
Others                      2,530         45
Balance on Current Account      -1.213        735        1.039         400
Total                       5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                 2,341      1,953        1,628      1,805               EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1978 -/
Amortization                  - 531      - 560        - 645       - 725                                                   US$ billion
Transactions with IMF               242     - 337        - 330       - 158              Outstanding aed Disbursed                14.8
All Other Items                    - 45     - 216          384         205              Undisbursed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575       -2,076      -1,527                    Undisborsed                        19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172     3,747        5,823       7,350                                               h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/       1,365     3,276        5,668       7,350              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FMV 1977/78          15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                              IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                   US$ million
of which: Petroleum            1,417      1,581       1,817       1,980                                                 IBRD          IDA
Exports                              43        37           33       n.a.               Outsteandl.  ..Id Disbursed        613         3,864
of which: Petroleum               22         21           18       n.a.               Undisbursed                        615         1,992
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHAMNE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                  :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978          :  US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/ Estimated.
1/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                              1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .68
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.92
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI  I                               25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    4.31
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    7.22
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
St Marketing           --         13.0    7.66
481-IN     1974   India    Trcmbay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0      .44
lOll-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --      22.61
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   21.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   36.15
520-IN     1974   India    SirLdri Fertilizer         --         91.0    1.04
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            -          27.7   15.89
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.34
526-IN     1975   India    Drcught Prone Areas        --         35.0   11.33
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFF'CO Fertilizer         109.0       --      10.75
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Ind.ustry DFC XI           95.6       --       4.17
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.58
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   13.44
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    7.70
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.89
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   24.24
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   59.90
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   84.90



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0     2.41
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    14.40
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    108.56
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --     24.30
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --     24.22
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --     23.47
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --     10.36
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.04
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   16.76
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  112.46
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN,    1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        -          12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0    1.44
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.24
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.35
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.22
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --     67.51
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   52.06
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.93
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   49.46
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       -      37.75
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   95.97
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   62.79
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       -      25.00
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thnermal Power        105.0       --     94.13
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6  106.73
793-IN     1978   India    Korlba Thermal Power       --        200.0  179.25
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          -          14.0   13.96
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   79.84
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.23
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.97
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     62.55
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  143.57
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  194.78
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   85.47
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.90
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   35.66
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.90
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   24.29
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   24.61
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --     50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  200.00
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  123.34
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   48.00
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   22.47



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India      ARDC III                 --     250.0      250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India      Thal Fertilizer        250.0      --       250.00
963-IN*    1979   India      Inland Fisheries                 20.0       20.00
Total                                 2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid              992.1      58.4
Total now outstanding                 1,536.7  7,196.6
Amount Sold                   133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2       17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,519.1  7,196.6
Total undisbursed (excluding*)          579.4  2,797.6
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                                   Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                       Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.               0.8        O.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co, Ltd.            11.8        1.4       13.2
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0        0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                           6.6         -        6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                               4.0        1.4       5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.           7.5       1.1        8.6
TOTAL                               61.1      11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                 5.9        1.7       7.6
Repaid                              17.4        -        17.4
Cancelled                            6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                            31.6       9.1       40.7
Undisbursed                         11.7       1.7       13.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$538.3 million in FY79 or 39% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year
through February 29, 1980 totalled US$366 million, representing an increase of
about 32% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,377
million as of February 29, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-est,ablished development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$:250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: February 29, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial produc-
tion is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a
result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in comple-
tion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project prep-
aration and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-
projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date:  June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; andl to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal.  In order to improve the situation, arrangements have beeni
,nade to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and. staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Paee 11 of 17
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Coimand Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainave, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Pate 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow.  The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects.  In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Paze 16 of 17
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874        May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Pale 17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND GUJARAT IRRIGATION PROJECT
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years
(b)  The agency that has prepared the project
Government of Gujarat
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
September 1977; September 1977
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
March 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
June/July 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  Gujarat to maintain its existing independent panel of
experts, who would periodically examine the concept, the
design and the construction of the dams and spillways.
After their completion, these structures to be periodic-
ally inspected to determine their continued safety
(paragraph 46).
(b)  Gujarat as part of its resettlement plan, to allocate
land suitable for cultivation to the farmers to be
resettled from the Heran, Karjan and Damanganga reser-
voir areas (paragraph 46).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c)  Gujarat to upgrade to appropriate standards, wherever
necessary, existing roads in phase with the roads included
in the Project (paragraph 48).
(d) Gujarat to commence a training program for land develop-
ment and water management specialists not later than
October 1, 1981 (paragraph 54).
(e) Gujarat to review the water and water-related charges in
the State by December 31, 1981 and, based on the outcome
of the review and after paying due regard to IDA's com-
ments, to begin to experiment with different systems of
volumetric charges; if the results of these experiments
are favorable, iGujarat to start, by December 31, 1984,
implementing a volumetric system of charges in the areas
of the Project (paragraph 70).



IBRD 14606
OCTOBER 1975
INDIA
RA                            MAJOR AND MEDIUM IRRIGATION PROJECTS
P  A   K  I S  T  A   NA                                                                                                                  GUJARAT IRRIGATION Tr PROJECT                                 GUAT
0                                       ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~COMPLETES   SEDNSUN  POPEOBSE  IRRIGATION II
'A                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
FL-rn.--  -'        .-r    "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I        1   ~~~~~~~~i ~~DAB SITES                                   AI
BANASKANTHA            1    PNP0           /ASHCMANDS   ...                                                                    --
C7>-.                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS
MAJOR RAILROADS
0          MAJOR TOWNS
2  N   27                                         UI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITOICT BOUNOARIES
RD  BA                               2OGANDH                                                                               - - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G20STATE BROUNDARIES
RIVERS
-~                                                                                        110  16 110 \1480137                        FOR EXPLANATION SEE SEPARATE TADLC
A    101~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
~~  ~~'   140  J ~~~~~          43A 144     8
so     A1442-                       MEL            0
-\                   A           4    ARELAMnEj-e9I
77          ~~BH  V                                            10      >/. , 
30  75                    L1-                                                          A.V  N*                                                           CI I N A
KVRAL                               ,AkCC                                    -     M
~~,                                                                                          .~~~ -P-A KISTAN  IY                 BHUTAN
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                                                                                                              I A~ N
A~~~~~~~~~~~'
I  I  I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~9                                                                                                         (    IDA             7     p\
MILE$
(                                                                 >59~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)11 LANKA



