Report No. PID9890
Project Name                     Senegal-Nutrition Sector Enhancement Program (APL)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Population; Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       SNPE70541
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
Implementing Agency
Address
The Commission National de Lutte Contre
la Malnutrition
Contact Person: Mr. Mbeye Diack
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 18, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 7, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 22, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
In recent years Senegal has returned to the path of economic growth.
According to estimates, GDP grew on average by about 5 percent annually
over the last six years. Yet, despite this resumption of economic growth,
Senegal's social indicators, including malnutrition, remain a cause of
concern. Social development has lagged behind economic growth and poverty
has actually increased. Over 58 percent of households are living below
the poverty threshold as defined in terms of a minimum caloric intake
(2400 calories per day for adults). Support for the Government's poverty
reduction objective is at the center of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy. The Government's overall development strategy is to reduce the
incidence of poverty and create gainful employment opportunities for youth
through higher growth rates and the application of effective measures of
social and human development. The proposed Nutrition Sector Enhancement
Program (NSEP) would directly support the Government's poverty reduction
strategy by improving nutritional status. Malnutrition is not only a
result of poverty, but also a cause of poverty. Anemic adults, short
adults, and very thin adults are often less productive - have lower work
output in physical labor than better nourished adults- and are less likely
to be hired. By improving nutritional status at an early stage in life,
the NSEP would improve not only the quality of life, and decrease child
morbidity, it would also positively impact on education and productivity
in later life and thus reduce poverty. Linkages between this effort and
the HIPC and PRSP processes, as well as decentralization, are important.
The proposed NSEP supports the objectives in the recently developed
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) and Senegal's
decentralization process, which promotes regional development through more
active partnership between the government, social and professional groups,
and communities. The NSEP would apply this approach as follows: the
government would serve as the policy making entity, universities and
leading professionals would provide technical input and, the private
sector and NGOs would serve as executors of the interventions. Local
government and communities would be at the center of the program and



responsible for the development of the regional and local nutrition
plans. The NSEP broadens and expands the nutrition activities that were
implemented under the successful Community Nutrition Project (CPN) (Credit
no. 27230). These activities consisted principally of an urban community
nutrition program which combined food supplementation and nutrition
education, and an urban potable water program. The purpose of the CPN was
to ensure a safety net to respond to a feared increase in malnutrition
following the CFA franc devaluation in 1994. The NSEP complements other
ongoing projects, such as the Social Development Fund Project, and the
Integrated Health Sector Development Program (PDIS). NSEP would provide
the missing focus on nutritional status and improvement of women of
child-bearing age and infants, an area not easily or appropriately tasked
to others. It would complement, not compete with, the new social
development fund or health delivery system investments and integrated
management of childhood illness approach by filling in nutritional gaps
not addressed; by providing another window of promotion and coverage for
the social fund and health sector; and by referring communities to the
social fund and health facilities.
2. Objectives
The Nutrition Sector Enhancement Program development objective is to
improve the nutritional status of children under three, pregnant and
lactating women in poor urban and rural areas. The program follows the
successful Community Nutrition Project CPN in Senegal. This project,
supported by the World Bank, World Food Program WFP), and Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW), was successful in reaching the poor and
recuperating malnourished children under three, but it was limited to the
urban areas and applied an emergency type approach. The proposed NSEP
would adopt lessons learned from the Community Nutrition Project and go
significantly further in emphasizing links to other projects such as the
Social Development Fund Project as well as other interventions, to address
the multiple underlying causes to malnutrition. More specifically the
proposed NSEP aims to: (i) substantially reduce underweight prevalence and
micronutrient deficiencies among children under three and pregnant and
lactating women in poor urban and rural areas; (ii) contribute to the
reduction of under five child mortality by improving the Integrated
Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) at the community level; (iii)
further increase access to potable water and sanitation facilities in
targeted areas; (iv) ensure long term sustainability by improving the
quality and quantity of food intake by children, pregnant and lactating
women at home; (v) increase community's awareness of malnutrition as a
development problem; and (vi) increase access to the opportunities offered
to women to free up their time to take care of their children.Phase I
would establish the institutional capacity required to enable the
Commission National de Lutte contre la Malnutrition (CNLM) - established
in 1994 with the mandate to ensure a safety net for the poor and reduce
malnutrition - and its partners in the public and private sector, to
develop, implement and monitor nutrition activities that would lead to the
achievement of the development objective of the proposed NSEP. The
former nutrition project made an impressive start with the building of
capacity; however, it was largely concentrated in the private sector.
NSEP Phase I would be a transition from the ongoing nutrition activities
in urban areas, namely current "emergency-type" community nutrition
intervention, to longer-term preventive nutrition activities. The focus
would be on ensuring access for all children under three to the growth
-2 -



monitoring and promotion program and access to adequate nutrition
information for all. Phase I would also build management and execution
capacity to implement nutrition activities in the rural areas, where
malnutrition rates are highest. Different delivery mechanisms would be
tested to identify those that are cost-effective, efficient, and
sustainable to deliver nutrition interventions to communities in the rural
areas. (Phase I would tentatively extend from 2001-2003).Phase II would
scale up and extend the nutrition interventions in both rural and urban
areas, to national coverage. (Phase II would tentatively extend from
2003-2008)Phase III would focus on mainstreaming and institutionalizing
nutrition to ensure access to adequate nutrition interventions and
information for young children and women. At the end of this phase the
Government would have in place functioning and effective institutional
mechanisms capable of managing and modifying nutrition policy,
coordinating the relevant actors, monitoring nutritional trends and
operational activities, and responding to changing circumstances. Indeed,
mainstreaming is considered a key factor for long term project
sustainability. (Phase III would tentatively extend from 2008-2010)
During appraisal further consideration will be given to the phasing of the
APL, including whether two or three phases are needed, the duration of
each phase, and objectives to be accomplished before moving from one phase
to the next.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Based on its positive experience with the Bank-supported Community
Nutrition Project, the Government decided to broadened this activity so
that a Nutrition Sector Enhancement Program would provide the missing
focus on nutritional status and improvement of women of child-bearing age
and infants, an area not easily or appropriately tasked to others. During
the October 2000 workshop held in Dakar and involving all stakeholders in
nutrition in Senegal and the international donor community, the
stakeholders decided to propose a multi-sectoral program, addressing
nutrition as a development issue, and not to propose a single sector
project, i.e., nutrition as a public health issue in the health sector or
nutrition as a food security issue in the agriculture sector. Addressing
nutrition as a sector issue would limit the impact of the interventions
and would leave a large gap to be filled by other projects. Instead, by
addressing nutrition multi-sectorally, and making strong links to ongoing
interventions, its impact is more likely. The proposed NSEP has financial
requirements that are beyond the capacity of local resources or those that
can be mobilized through the international donor community. The Bank has
been instrumental in assisting the Government design and successfully
implement the first Community Nutrition project. The Government, as well
as other donors, have expressed interest in having the Bank continue to
play a major role in the formulation and implementation of nutrition
interventions. The Government's strong commitment to further investment
in the nutrition sector provides an excellent opportunity to further
improve the nutritional status of young children and women in Senegal.
4. Description
The Nutrition Sector Enhancement Program would be composed of community
nutrition programs, and cross-sectoral and complementary cross cutting
components. The community nutrition activities would form the basis of
the interventions in the communities. Once those activities are
established (triggers would be coverage and regular participation), the
-3 -



cross-sectoral activities would be added on according to community plans.
All cross-sectoral activities would be coordinated with ongoing projects
and programs in Senegal. The Social Development Fund Project is a good
example of where communities can access financial resources for their
development activities. The Early Childhood Development Project under the
Education for All Program is another good example regarding the
time-saving activities for women. These activities are largely
demand-driven and in this regard NGO and CBO-assisted situation
assessments would be among the core activities to be provided to the
communities. A. Community-based Nutrition Program Component:The specific
objective of this component is to reduce moderate malnutrition among
children under 3 by xt and to reduce micronutrient deficiencies among
pregnant and lactating women. The activities proposed to reach this
objective would be: (i) growth monitoring and promotion; (ii) promotion of
exclusive breast-feeding and appropriate weaning practices; (iii) cooking
demonstrations and food supplementation for malnourished children under 3
in food-insecure areas (and other innovative approaches); (iv) referral of
sick and severely malnourished children to health facilities; (v)
deworming; (vi) micronutrient supplementation; and (vii) promotion of
household consumption of iodized salt. This component would be managed by
AGETIP who would contract micro-enterprises, NGOs and community-based
organizations to execute the activities at community-level, both in urban
and rural areas. Community teams, assisted by the NGOs and
community-based organizations would be established (or existing or planned
community mechanisms used) to create community demand, depending on the
analysis of the individual community situation. Community assessment
tools would be developed during the first phase of the APL. As
appropriate, the World Food Program would provide food-related technical
assistance and the food-aid for the food-supplementation program.
Community-based Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI)
activities would be added once the community nutrition program is
established. The IMCI approach is singled out because it treats childhood
illnesses in a holistic manner, taking into account the fact that over 54t
of childhood illnesses are associated with malnutrition. Further,
facility-based IMCI is integrated into Senegal's community-based health
sector efforts and community-based IMCI is a natural extension and
complement to such efforts. The community-based IMCI activities include:
(i) improving the capacity of mothers and caretakers to recognize illness
and take timely and appropriate action at home and referral to health
facilities; (ii) improving the mother's and caretaker's knowledge and
application of correct hygienic practices and measures to prevent common
disease (hand washing, correct feces disposal, usage of impregnated bed
nets immunization and pre-natal care); and (iii) provision of
community-based activities such as communal bed-net impregnation. The
Ministry of Health will use trained IMCI health worker facilitators to
assist in bringing IMCI to communities. B. Cross-sectoral Activities
Component: a) Water and Sanitation activities would increase access to
potable water in the targeted areas and increase the proportion of
households that benefit from small sanitation infrastructure by Xt. The
activities proposed are: (i) extension of potable water network; (ii)
promotion of hygienic practices regarding use and conservation of water;
(iii) construction of latrines, waste-pits and waste burning places; (iv)
promotion of hygienic practices at the household level. As in the previous
community nutrition project, AGETIP would implement the water and
sanitation aspects of the new Project, including provision of
- 4 -



infrastructure and promotion of related hygienic practices at the
community and household level. b) Household Food Security activities
would improve the quantity and quality of nutritious food among poor rural
households to improve food consumption among Project target groups. Such
efforts would be on a selective basis, recognizing that the major
responsibility for Senegal food security rests elsewhere and with other
programs. Activities would include: (i) the promotion of production,
transformation and conservation of local foods; (ii) promotion of adequate
stocking and transfer of local products; (iii) identification of priority
problems and solutions at the household level and identification of
financial and technical assistance; (iv) support to women rural
organizations, including producers, marketing and processing groups. The
Ministry of Agriculture in conjunction with the CNSA and CNLM, working
with AGETIP, would take responsibility for this component. c) Increased
access to community development and women's time-saving activities would
contribute to free up women's time to take care of their children, an
important part of which should be devoted to proper feeding and hygiene.
Activities envisioned under the proposed program to increase that access
would be: (i) diagnosis of the priority problems mothers have regarding
care taking; (ii) identification of existing activities and solutions;
(iii) provision of technical assistance to women's groups so that they can
obtain support from existing or to be created programs such as literacy,
early child development (ECD) and micro-credit. With respect to
increasing access to community development agendas, the lead would be
taken by the Ministry of Family and Solidarity, which is also responsible
for the overall coordination of the Social Development Fund Project, with
which these activities will be closely coordinated and linked.C.
Cross-cutting Components:Cross cutting components include a) Program
Management and Supervision, b) Information, Education, and
Communication/Behavioral Change Communications (IEC/BCC), and c)
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Institutional development and capacity
building is an overarching component that would be carried out mainly in
the first phase of the APL. The CNLM would be the overall coordinating
and administrative body, responsible for assuring adequate financial,
procurement, and reporting responsibilities under the NSEP.a) Program
management and supervision component concepts are at an early stage and
will be refined as a result of i) the institutional assessment undertaken
in early 2001, and ii) as other Components are clarified. As presently
contemplated, NSEP would have as its oversight and coordinating body, the
"CNLM". CNLM would be supported by a small secretariat comprised of a
CNLM Coordinator, Nutrition Coordinator, IEC Coordinator and M&E
Coordinator, as well as a Financial Management Coordinator. For most
Community-base Nutrition Component activities, procurement and financial
actions, as well as reporting will be out-sourced to AGETIP. Financial
management of activities to be carried out by line ministries (such as
IMCI, PAIN, and community access to development), as well as those
activities to be carried out by the NSEP secretariat, and treatment of the
Special and other bank accounts, would be discussed and detailed during
pre-appraisal. This would include financial management and the mechanisms
to channel funds to the communities. Lessons learned and experiences from
other projects would form the basis of these discussions. The NSEP
secretariat would be responsible for regular reporting to the CNLM on
Program progress, organizing meetings of the CNLM, delegating authority
to carry out studies, pilot tests, and assuring that IDA requirements are
adhered to.b) Information, Education, and Communication/Behavioral Change
- 5 -



Communications (IEC/BCC) is a central aspect of virtually all nutrition
activity. There would be a need to avoid inconsistency of messages from
the various participants while at the same time allowing for creativity
and variation in delivering such messages in different contexts. The
structure of the IEC/BCC activities would be addressed during
appraisal.c) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be incorporated into
each Component intervention, and will be the responsibility of the
implementor to assure there is an adequate and effective monitoring system
in place. At the same time there is need to have an overarching
perspective on what is being done to assess which approaches are
successful and should be expanded, and those which should be
discontinued. This function would be the responsibility of the CNLM,
supported by its secretariat.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost The Government would incur limited additional direct
public expenditures in support of the APL. The Government's financial
contribution would amount to an estimated US$ 4.0 million over the ten
year period. No significant increase in public sector staffing would be
envisioned, nor extensive additional recurrent expenditures. Further,
because nutrition is multi-sectoral in nature and because of the nature of
an APL, it is difficult to attribute incremental expenditures to specific
sectors at this juncture. However, the proposed program should improve
the quality of public expenditures directed at the poor and more
vulnerable, with benefits/reduced costs in health, education, and
community development.
The main project interventions would be designed to ensure their financial
affordability and sustainability for the ultimate beneficiaries. With
respect to community nutrition, community-based IMCI, and water and
sanitation, these activities would include focus on promoting behavior
changes in communities, rather than individuals only. Provided the
community nutrition activities achieve their objectives, the feeding
supplementation programs should be virtually phased out during the life of
the project, and the water and sanitation efforts financed on a continuing
basis, at least in part, by the communities. Selected household food
security interventions would include some activities that would generate
revenue such as those for women's groups engaged in improved processing or
marketing of more nutritious foods.
The financial structure for the Nutrition Sector Enhancement Program
(NSEP) is to be worked out. There already exists substantial experience
and capability in those principal entities to be involved in the Program,
namely, AGETIP and the Ministry of Health. The fiduciary relationships
between the communities, regional entities, large and small NGOs, AGETIP
and the Ministry of Health, and the CNLM itself, will be determined during
appraisal and based on a Project Management Report (PMR). It should be
noted that financial management under the Community Nutrition Project was
satisfactory. The AGETIP staff is familiar with World Bank procedures and
requirements and will be able to handle additional responsibilities
generated by the new Program. This is also the case with the Ministry of
Health and successive health sector investments. It is expected that the
CNLM secretariat would substantially contract out to AGETIP for financial,
disbursement, and reporting tasks, building on their existing
- 6 -



institutional competence, skilled staff, and information systems.
6. Implementation
The NSEP would involve a number of actors, including the CNLM, CNSA,
AGETIP, MOH, MOA, and Ministry of Family Affairs, the Social Funds.
Furthermore, nutrition inevitably touches on a broad spectrum of policies
and jurisdictions. While the Commission National de Lutte Contre la
Malnutrition has the principal mandate for nutrition as it affects those
who are poor, and would be the anchor for this community-based nutrition
effort, it is recognized there are overlapping policy, intervention, and
supervision responsibilities, as well as varying types and levels of
competency, among these key performers. These are to be clarified before
and during appraisal. Hypothetically what could be envisioned at this
juncture is that NSEP oversight would formally be the responsibility of
the CNLM which would have a skeleton staff to handle coordination,
advocacy, and administrative/logistical tasks. This CNLM secretariat
would facilitate execution of the main NSEP components, which would be
delegated to AGETIP, the Ministry of Health, and conceivably other
principals such as the Ministry of Family Affairs. It would mean that
NSEP authority would be delegated to such executing entities to approve
work plans for central, regional, and local activities, procure and
disburse funds from advance accounts, systematically monitor these
activities, and report to CNLM and IDA, through the CNLM secretariat. The
secretariat would also consolidate progress reporting of the components.
Further it could synthesize nutrition anthropometric trend and operation
information for consideration by CNLM, and prepare policy and thematic
papers, also for consideration by the CNLM.
7. Sustainability
The NSEP would promote long-term sustainability by: (i) empowering
communities to deal with malnutrition; (ii) promoting positive changes in
caring practices related to the preparation of food, hygiene, and feeding
at the household level, especially for children and pregnant and lactating
women; (iii) relying on NGOs, community-based organizations and private
sector to assist in the execution of the activities; (iv) relying on
communities to co-finance activities, thus creating local capacity to
further develop these activities, and (vi) enhancing Government capacity
to promote nutrition policies and coordinate nutrition interventions. The
communities spontaneously started contributing to the nutrition centers
under the Community Nutrition Project. Throughout the APL process
emphasis would be given to the sustainability of nutrition approaches
selected and the institutional architecture put in place. The gradual
assumption by Government of a larger portion of the costs of nutrition
activities, currently mainly supported by external donors, is foreseen,
but principally during the second and third APL phases.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Community Nutrition Project, although it was a response to an
emergency situation, did provide many of the lessons learned taken into
account in this project. Other ongoing nutrition interventions in Senegal
provided lessons learned as did other international experiences. In
particular:Projects that are managed outside the traditional government
entities tend to be more efficient and flexible in serving the
communities. The Community Nutrition Project concluded the following: the
implementation of nutrition activities at the community level can be
-7 -



effectively managed by an executing agency that is not attached to a line
ministry. The NSEP would continue with many of the institutional
arrangements developed under the CNP. The management of severely
malnourished children is complicated and depends on coordinated efforts
between communities and health facilities. The NSEP emphasizes the need
for strong collaboration and coordination between all parties. It is
important to clearly define the roles and responsibilities of the
coordinating body, the policy making entity, and the executing agency at
the beginning of the project and to provide sufficient means for each to
perform its role adequately. During the workshop held in October in
Senegal, a start was made with a clearer definition of the roles and
responsibilities of each of the partners. The foreseen institutional
capacity assessment will build further on this lesson learned.Best
practice should be reflected upon when designing new interventions.
Several studies based on in-depth analysis and case-studies of nutrition
projects, interviews and evaluations, identify the following critical
elements for successful project design: community participation; program
flexibility; institutional capacity; financial contribution by the
community; multi-faceted program activities; and training. All these
critical elements are reflected in the proposed project: (i) community
participation would be the cornerstone of the NSEP; (ii) the NSEP would
foresee a high level of flexibility in applying the APL instrument; (iii)
communities would contribute financially to the activities (Under the
Community Nutrition Project this was one of the successful unforeseen
activities that was started); (iv) the NSEP is multi-faceted and
coordinated by a multi-sectoral body, the CNLM; and (v) significant
investment would be made in training of community nutrition workers and
health staff. The management of the drinking water stands by local women's
groups was very successful under the CPN. The stand pipes were not only
self-financing, but in addition cross-subsidized the community nutrition
centers by contributing 159 of their revenue to the centers.    This
approach would be continued and expansion to the rural areas would be
reviewed.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     This is a poverty targeted
intervention.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This Program would be expected to have a positive
impact on the environment. The impact of small civil works to be financed
under the Program, such as community nutrition centers (mainly
rehabilitation), would be neutral on the environment. The water and
sanitation component would have a positive impact on the environment by
providing potable water to the beneficiaries, and removing waste
materials, both of which have significant detrimental impact on
environmental health. Any water and sanitation systems financed with IDA
funding would meet IDA operational guidelines in this regard.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Claudia Rokx
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
-8-



Telephone: 202 473-3619
Fax:   (202) 473-3619
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending January 26, 2001.
-9-



