Report No. 23698
Report No: I070541 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/13/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SENEGAL         Project ID: P070541
Project: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM Task Team Leader: Claudia Rokx
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 31, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 14, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 14.70
Managing Unit: Sector: HN - Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Nutrition Enhancement Program (NEP) development objective is to build
the institutional and organizational capacity of the nutrition system to
effectively develop, implement and monitor the nutrition interventions and
to improve the nutritional status of children under five, pregnant and
lactating women in poor urban and rural areas.
Phase I of the Nutrition Enhancement Program (NEP) is largely the
preparatory phase for the rural areas and will maintain the achievements
made with the earlier project in the urban areas. It will build the
institutional capacity required to enable the Cellule National de Lutte
contre la Malnutrition (CLM) and its partners in the public and private
sector - the National Nutrition Service (Service National d'Alimentation
et Nutrition - SNAN) under the Ministry of Health and Prevention, the
district health facilities, local government, NGOs and communities - to
develop, implement and monitor multisectoral nutrition activities in both
rural and urban areas. Although the first World Bank supported Community
Nutrition Project (CNP) in Senegal made an impressive start with building
capacity, it was largely concentrated in the private sector and limited to
the urban areas. NEP will specifically focus on building capacity in the
rural areas, where malnutrition rates are highest. During Phase I the
ongoing 'emergency-type' nutrition interventions established under the CNP
will be maintained, but transformed into longer-term preventive nutrition
interventions and approaches to nutrition will be harmonized. Different
implementation strategies and delivery mechanisms (using private sector,
NGO and community-based service delivery) will be tested to identify those
that are cost-effective, efficient, and sustainable to deliver nutrition
interventions to communities in both urban and rural areas.
Phase II would be dedicated to scale up and extend the nutrition
interventions, in particular in the rural areas to cover about 80% of the
targeted population - children under five and pregnant and lactating women
in poor areas - by the end of the phase II.
Phase III would focus on mainstreaming and institutionalizing nutrition to
ensure continued access to adequate nutrition interventions and
information for young children and women. At the end of this Phase the



Government would have in place a functioning and effective nutrition
system capable of managing and modifying nutrition policy in a
multisectoral environment, coordinating the relevant actors, monitoring
nutritional trends and operational activities, and responding to changing
circumstances. Effective implementation of responsibilities and clear
appropriation of roles by each (communities and civil society, the private
sector, and the public sector), and evidence of commitment to continue the
nutrition interventions, should be achieved by the end of the Program.
The duration of each phase is indicative, as it is the achievement of
defined targets which will trigger the subsequent phase. IDA-support is
sought for a share of the program, which will be co-financed by the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), World Food Program (WFP), UNICEF and
BASICS.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The NEP supports Senegal's National Nutrition Policy with the objective to
improve the nutrition status of children under five and pregnant and
lactating women. The program consist of 3 phases, Phase I is the subject
of this project description. The main goal of Phase I is to build
capacity and test different implementation strategies as well as maintain
the achievements of the CPN in the urban areas. It consists of 3 main
components:
1) A Community Nutrition and IMCI program
2) Financing of Supporting Sectoral Interventions: water and sanitation,
household food security and community support
3) Program Management consisting of 3 sub-components: capacity building,
monitoring, evaluation and operational research and NEP management
Components:
1. Community Nutrition and IMCI
2. Financing of Supporting Sectoral Interventions
3.1. Program management: Capacity Building
3.2. Program Management: Monitoring and Evaluation and Operational Research
3.3. Program Management: NEP Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Location is in 25 urban communes and in three regions in the rural areas
(Kolda, Fatick and Kaoulack).
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project is categorized as C and no potential safeguards will
be triggered. However, the project will ensure that the proponent on bed
nets will appreciate the importance of: (i) safe and proper re-dipping of
bed nets by individual users; (ii) proper disposal of bed nets in
hospitals; and (iii) appropriate storage of chemicals used for re-dipping.
As a safeguard measure, the project will help with training and awareness
building among users regarding re-dipping, disposal, and handling of
chemicals. These steps will be important with regard to human and
environmental health. For example, people directly involved in dipping
large numbers of nets are at risk for exposure as a result of chemicals
- 2 -



splashing on the skin, into the eyes, or through ingestion (smoking while
treating the nets). In the environment, aquatic ecosystems are at risk
through the washing of nets and improper disposal of the remainder of net
treatment solution. There are ongoing and planned studies designed to
assess the precise human and environmental impacts of the use of
impregnated bed nets. It is recommended that the proponent of the project
keep abreast of the findings of these studies.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
-3 -



that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Claudia Rokx    02/13/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Serigne Omar Fye/Person/World Bank       02/13/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
02/13/2002
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     02/13/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Alexandre V. Abrantes    02/13/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



