                    Document of
                 The World Bank




                                      Report No:ICR000107




IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                  ON A CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.8 MILLION
         (US$14.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

         TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

        IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE

      NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM




                  January 29, 2007




              Human Development II
                   Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       ( Exchange Rate Effective 02/11/2002 )
                              Currency Unit = FCFA
                                FCFA 1.00 = US$ 0.00132
                                  US$ 1.00 = FCFA 757

                                     Fiscal Year
                           JANUARY 01 - DECEMBER 31




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL  Adaptable Program Lending
BEN  Bureau Exécutif National (National Executive Bureau)
BER  Bureau Exécutif Régional (Regional Executive Bureau)
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
CBO  Community-Based Organization
CEA  Community Executing Agency
CLM  Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition (Coordination Unit for the Reduction of
     Malnutriton)
CNP  Community Nutrition Project
DHS  Demographic and Health Survey
FCFA Franc de la Communauté Financière d'Afrique (Currency of the Francophone African
     Financial Communit
GDP  Gross Domestic Product
ICR  Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA  International Development Association
IMCI Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
KPC  Knowledge, Practices and Coverage
LDP  Local Development Plan
LG   Local Government
MDG  Millennium Development Goal
MEF  Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOH  Ministry of Health
MTR  Mid-Term Review
NEP  Nutrition Enhancement Program
NGO  Non-Governmental Organization
PAD  Project Appraisal Document
PLND Policy Letter on Nutrition and Development
PNDL Programme National de Développement Local (National Program for Local
     Development)
PRSP Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG  Quality Assurance Group
QER  Quality Enhancement Review
SWAP Sector-Wide Approach Project

UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
WFP    World Food Programme
WHO    World Health Organization
c-IMCI Community-based Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses




                            Vice President: Hartwig Schafer
                          Country Director: Madani M. Tall
                           Sector Manager: Eva Jarawan
                      Project Team Leader: Menno Mulder-Sibanda

                                                       Senegal
                                 Nutrition Enhancement Program




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 21
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 24
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 26
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 27
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 33
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 34
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 36
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 40
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 41
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 43
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 44
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 45
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 46
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 48
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 49
Annex 13. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 50
13.1 Results Framework of the Senegal Nutrition Enhancement Project Phase II....... 50
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 52

1. Basic Information

Country:                Senegal                Project Name:           Nutrition Enhancement
                                                                       Program

Project ID:             P070541                L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-36190,IDA-
                                                                       3619A
ICR Date:               01/30/2007             ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     APL                    Borrower:               GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                       SENEGAL
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 11.8M              Disbursed Amount:       XDR 11.4M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Cellule de Lutte Contre la Malnutrition
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

UNICEF
World Food Program (WFP)


2. Key Dates

     Process               Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review: 01/16/2001            Effectiveness:     06/27/2002        06/27/2002
Appraisal:         01/22/2002         Restructuring(s):
Approval:          03/14/2002         Mid-term Review: 02/21/2005          02/21/2005
                                      Closing:           01/15/2006        07/15/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Highly Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance        Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                   No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                        No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):    Satisfactory

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:         Satisfactory




                                              1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                           23              23
Health                                                      77              77
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement             Primary          Primary
Child health                                   Primary          Primary
Other communicable diseases                    Secondary        Secondary
Nutrition and food security                    Primary          Primary
Population and reproductive health             Secondary        Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                 At ICR        At Approval

Vice President:                               Hartwig Schafer  Callisto E.
                                                               Madavo
Country Director:                             Madani M. Tall   John McIntire

Sector Manager:                               Eva Jarawan      Alexandre V.
                                                               Abrantes

Project Team Leader:                          Menno Mulder-
                                              Sibanda          Claudia Rokx

ICR Team Leader:                              Menno Mulder-
                                              Sibanda
ICR Primary Author:                           Helle M. Alvesson

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The objectives and the design of the Nutrition Enhancement Program (NEP) should be
assessed in the context of three factors. First, when NEP was designed, the country had
benefited from six years of satisfactory economic growth, during which period GDP grew
annually at 5 percent. However, social development indicators lagged behind the
economic indicators and malnutrition, in particular wasting, showed a worsening trend
during the same period. Malnutrition rates are higher among the poorest segments of the
population and the socio-economic inequalities in child malnutrition are among the worst
observed in the sub-region. Second, Senegal's national Policy Letter on Nutrition and
Development (PLND), issued in 2001, highlights the significant challenges anticipated in
achieving the first of the Millennium Development Goals of eradication of extreme
poverty and hunger. The Policy Letter also reflects a growing political commitment to
address the lack of focus on nutritional status of young children and women of
childbearing ages. Third, malnutrition is a development issue, and not solely a public
health problem or a food insecurity problem. The lessons learned from the preceding
Community Nutrition Project (CNP; 1995-2000; IDA-27230; PPFI-P8900) were the
starting point of this major shift in Senegal's approach in addressing malnutrition. The
CNP was a response to increasing malnutrition rates in urban areas following the currency
devaluation in January 1994 and focused mostly on mitigating measures including food
supplementation and improved access to drinking water.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the 10-year Nutrition Enhancement Program (NEP) is to
improve the growth of children under three years of age in poor rural and urban areas.
The program will also help to build the institutional and organizational capacity to carry
out and evaluate nutrition interventions.

The Project was the first nutrition project in Africa to design a program using the
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument. The NEP was designed as a ten-year
program (2002-2012), consisting of three Phases; (i) developing strategies and
demonstrating results, (ii) scaling up to national level and between sectors, and (iii)
consolidation of the achievements.

The development objectives of Phase I of this Project were to: (i) extend nutrition and
growth promotion intervention into rural areas; (ii) consolidate and sustain the results
gained with the earlier CNP, which contributed to reversing the negative trend in
nutritional status among children under three in urban areas; and (iii) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition (CLM), the multi-
sectoral coordination commission responsible for the implementation of the national

nutrition policy, as well as its partners in the public and private sector to develop,
implement and monitor multi-sectoral nutrition activities. The CLM was established by
decree in 2001 and placed under the supervision of the Prime Minister's Office. This ICR
refers only to the Phase I Project (IDA-36190; PPFI-Q2660).

The outcome indicators for assessing the achievement of the PDO at the end of Phase I
are: (i) the prevalence of severe underweight is reduced by half in the targeted areas; (ii)
the proportion of underweight among children under three is reduced by 25 percent in the
targeted areas; (iii) the proportion of children exclusively breastfed until 6 months has
increased from eight to 15 percent in the targeted areas; (iv) the use of prenatal care (at
least three visits) has increased by 30 percent in the targeted areas; (v) and the proportion
of caregivers who recognize at least two danger signs in sick children has increased by 25
percent in targeted areas. Section 8.2 discusses the achievements of the project in terms
of outcome indicators. The Table in Annex 1 shows the achievements on the outcome
and impact indicators in relation to base line and target values. Comments are provided
with each indicator explaining the degree of achievement as a percentage, as well as
additional information to enhance the interpretation of results.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

No revisions were made to the project development objectives.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project would contribute to the well-being of children under five years of age and
pregnant and lactating women living in selected poor rural and urban areas. The targeting
mechanism was based on results from poverty studies and data on malnutrition rates.
Targeted community members would be trained to become nutrition aides. Similarly,
personnel at health posts and in Implementing Agencies (NGOs) would benefit from
training in order to improve the lives of the direct beneficiaries.

Growth monitoring and promotion was targeted at children under three years of age.
Other services such as counseling and the provision of basic health services (e.g., vitamin
A supplementation, deworming, the promotion of insecticide-treated bednets, as well as
sick-child consultation) were targeted at children under five, and pregnant and lactating
women.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component I: Community Nutrition and Growth Promotion
The credit financed a large-scale community-based intervention that emphasized behavior
change communication for nutrition and established growth monitoring and promotion in

poor urban neighborhoods and rural villages. It supported the delivery of nutrition and
health education through female community nutrition aides, who put the principles of
Community Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (C-IMCI) into practice.
Basic health services were provided by District Health personnel in collaboration with the
community nutrition aides. The importance of focusing on prevention and collaborating
with local health service providers were lessons learned from the preceding project
(CNP), which was more concerned with the identification and recuperation of
malnourished children. Experience from Senegal and other countries has shown that
behavior change communication and growth monitoring and promotion are essential to
bring about improved child growth and nutritional status. The CNP was limited to urban
areas. The NEP Phase I Project extended activities from the urban to the rural areas,
which had shown high vulnerability to malnutrition, notably chronic malnutrition.

Component II: Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation
Through a component centered on capacity building, the NEP Phase I Project aimed to
strengthen the capacity of all actors and institutions to manage for results. More
specifically, this component aimed to empower communities to establish and manage a
system for growth monitoring and promotion. Women's participation was perceived as
crucial since they have main responsibility for health related issues in the household. In
terms of local capacity building, support was provided to reinforce the ability of
communities to voice their views to the local decision-makers.

In addition, the system focused on institutions as well as organizations. Of particular
interest were inter-organizational collaborations and the capacity to manage the program
based on results. These areas had proven weak during the preceding nutrition project. It
was expected that training and other types of capacity building activities would increase
the development and evaluation of nutrition-relevant interventions and policies, as well as
enhance collaboration among key ministries on nutrition as part of poverty reduction
efforts.

Component III: Program Management
Day-to-day management of the NEP was assured by the secretariat of the CLM, the
National Executive Bureau (BEN). As the secretariat of the CLM, the BEN was
responsible for the oversight and management of all activities under the Project. This role
positioned the BEN at the forefront of the national debate on nutrition, thereby
strengthening its role in nutrition advocacy.      At the regional level, the BEN was
represented by six regional executive bureaus (BER) and focused on the objective of
strengthening the ability of implementing agencies and other stakeholders to contribute to
the reduction of malnutrition.

6.6 Revised Components

No revisions were made.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding

allocations)

Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR), a reallocation of the proceeds of the credit was
effectuated in favor of the categories for "Consultant's services" and "Operating costs".
In addition, the Project was extended by six months and closed on July 15, 2006,
allowing the community-level sub-projects to make a full two-year cycle.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The development objective of the NEP Phase I Project (2002-2006) was clearly
formulated, well-defined and focused on improvements within the scope of the operation.
They were appropriate and consistent with the lessons learned from the preceding CNP.
The objectives of the Project were consistent with the CAS and with the Government's
National Policy on Nutrition Development, which highlighted the importance of
malnutrition reduction as part of the Government's broader efforts to reduce poverty.
Malnutrition was defined as a poverty and development problem, which would require a
multisectoral commitment and an investment in medium- to long-term strategies. This
point was also supported during the Quality Enhancement Review of the Phase I Project.

The Project Components were well designed and incorporated lessons learned from the
CNP and from experiences in other countries. They resulted in the innovative approach
of the NEP, characterized by the introduction of three major policy changes.

The first referred to a paradigm shift from mitigation by means of food supplementation
to prevention and promotion through behavioral change communication. This shift was
motivated by the high costs (and low cost-benefit ratio) of food supplementation schemes
in the CNP and partly on an increase in malnutrition levels, notably chronic malnutrition,
in rural areas. The CNP was intended to address a problem of acute malnutrition and
therefore focused largely on the identification and recuperation of malnourished children
and provided limited attention to dealing with the root causes of malnutrition. Chronic
malnutrition, however, refers to the cumulative outcome of periodic growth faltering, and
addressing this problem requires the prevention of growth faltering through growth
promotion activities.

The second shift emphasized sustainability in a cost-effective manner. Costs per targeted
child were cut dramatically in order to improve the likelihood of sustaining the activities
after Project closure. In the CNP, cost per beneficiary for six months was $40 and $67.70
for every child receiving food supplements. For the NEP Phase I Project, the target
annual costs per beneficiary were set at $8 in urban areas and $4 in rural areas. The
significant cost reduction was to be obtained by (i) avoiding the use of food subsidies or
supplementation, and (ii) decentralization of project activities to the lowest capable level
possible. While the CNP employed groups of well educated, well paid professional
nutrition workers, and rented property for the running of monthly community activities,

the NEP emphasized community responsibility for providing appropriate incentives and
facilities to community nutrition aides for monthly activities.

Thirdly, the Project outsourced nutrition interventions to multiple Implementing
Agencies (i.e. NGOs) with strong community affiliations, a shift that enhanced
competition as well as greater flexibility with respect to local circumstances, innovation,
and development and identification of best practices.

An institutional capacity assessment was conducted at the pre-appraisal stage in order to
enhance efficiency of targeting capacity strengthening activities. This resulted in the
adoption of an internal learning process that allowed for gradually expanding coverage
during Phase I and the development and identification of best practices in anticipation of
scaling up interventions nationwide in subsequent phases. Well-defined triggers ensured
that the explorative first phase of the Project would prepare the Project for scaling up and
consolidation.

From the beginning, partner organizations and institutions were drawn into the process of
project design through adequate participatory processes to set the stage for effective
partnership arrangements for implementation. This was a major issue under the CNP
which worked in isolation of existing institutions.     The collaboration between the CLM
and the various sectors was identified as a substantial risk at the design stage of the
project, and the creation of ownership was rightly identified as the principal mitigation
measure. In addition, integration of growth monitoring and promotion with Community-
IMCI was innovative, and paved the way to enhanced collaboration with the Ministry of
Health. Infant and child growth and development were approached in a holistic way by
integrating interventions such as promotion of feeding practices (notably during and after
periods of illness), delivery of essential health services (such as immunization, vitamin A
supplementation, and deworming) and the prevention and treatment of malaria. This
approach was a strategic way to work more closely with the health service delivery
system to promote measures that help prevent malnutrition.

Another key concern was the implementation capacity of NGOs in targeted areas, which
could have undermined the entire approach of the program. This risk was adequately
addressed through the formulation of selection criteria with regard to the experience in
social mobilization and empowerment of NGOs, as well as their experience base with the
selected communities. Their capacities were to be strengthened through an extensive
training agenda after the selection had taken place. Moreover, the use of performance-
based contracts contributed to the quality and results focus of the services provided. The
motivation for NGOs to enter the bidding process was explained as belonging to a
national program.

Similarly, a number of moderate risks were identified, most of which referred to capacity
and collaboration, and each were adequately addressed through capacity building and
continuous consultations and involvement.

7.2 Implementation

(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The three rural Regions where interventions were introduced under Phase I were selected
on the basis of poverty studies, the three being the three poorest Regions in Senegal. The
34 Health Districts within the three Regions were selected with the assistance of Regional
Health Officers on the basis of social indicators. Similarly, communities were selected
with the assistance of Health District and NGO personnel on the basis of malnutrition
data. Participation of the poorest was enhanced by outreach strategies and home visits
whenever a child did not participate in the growth promotion activities.

The selection process of the 12 implementing partners (NGOs) of the community sub-
projects was transparent and consultative, and frequently upheld as an example for other
projects by the Bank. Applications were received from 156 NGOs. The selection process
entailed participatory workshops with all primary stakeholders (civil society
organizations, religious groups and Local Government) and followed clearly defined
criteria as documented in the Implementation Manual. It is likely that the transparent
manner in which the 12 selected NGOs were recruited for the different districts
contributed to the establishment of a sense of regional ownership.

Similarly, the transparent and competitive selection process of the BEN/BER personnel
contributed to achieving high standards in results and managerial performance. The CLM
was initially plagued by high turnover of representatives from key ministries. However,
over time and as the project started showing results, the participation and ownership
increased and CLM's role became clearer to its members. With substantial improvements
in capacities, the CLM is now generally considered the focal point for nutrition policy
development and action. Given the low level of Government's attention to nutrition at the
start of the project, this is a remarkable achievement.

Given the major policy changes, the Project needed ample preparation time to recruit
staff, select the NGOs, enhance implementation and management capacity, and develop
collaboration with the Ministry of Health. As a result, community activities were
launched in early 2004. The apparent delay turned out to be an important investment in
the Project's ability to deliver high quality and contextualized nutrition activities. To
better appreciate where the Project was going, the MTR was carried out in early 2005.
The Project was extended by six months and closed on July 15, 2006. The need for this
extension was identified and discussed during the MTR.

Key processes that have contributed to the implementation of the project are team
building within the BEN/BER and among partner organizations and institutions, the
sharing of information and results, the continued involvement and the building of
ownership among all stakeholders. Despite the ample preparation time, the project
disbursed 97 percent of the credit funds, which is particularly remarkable given the
project's reliance on community sub-projects for the disbursement of funds.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The broad outline of the Monitoring and Evaluation system was properly embedded in
the project design, characterized by an emphasis on learning by doing, managing results,
participation at all levels, and adequate feedback and support from the central level.

The detailed elaboration of monitoring and evaluation tools and mechanisms was sound
and comprehensive. The M&E system was composed of three main data sources for
assessing Project's achievements. First, it included routine monitoring of data collected at
community level on a monthly basis. Careful attention was paid to keeping the system
light, adaptable for integration in existing monitoring systems at the local level, as well as
performing, using a select number of proxy indicators that were measurable and
informative. The information was first to be used at community level to discuss progress
as well as problems. Once the information was communicated to the regional and central
levels, it was used as the basis for conducting regular supportive supervision missions to
the community project sites, during which the data were collectively reviewed and
discussed with all stakeholders concerned. This constant emphasis on results kept every
one in the system informed and watchful of the progress of the project. Much emphasis
was put on learning by doing which implied that the central level provided the bare
minimum of instructions but a maximum of support, thereby allowing each implementing
partner to develop its own strategies and solutions. Throughout the implementation
period, the data generated by the routine monitoring showed a constant increase in
participation as well as in the proportion of children gaining weight. Most encouraging to
the community, the data indicated that the Project helped bring down malnutrition rates,
something that created a strong sense of ownership among communities.

The second data source referred to performance evaluation of each of the community sub-
projects by before-and-after population-based representative surveys on knowledge,
practices and coverage (referred to as a KPC study). These surveys have provided a
wealth of information on the direct outcomes of the Community Nutrition and Growth
Promotion component as measured by coverage and behavior change, some of which will
be discussed in section 8.2. These results also form the basis of performance evaluation
of the implementing partners for the Phase II Project.

Finally, the borrower embraced the idea of an independent impact evaluation, with base-
and endline data from randomized control and intervention groups in rural areas only,
which had no CNP history. Worldwide, few nutrition programs have included
independent impact evaluations. The fact that the borrower was keen to add a rigorous
independent impact evaluation, which was financed largely by the project, to the already
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system is commendable. Data collection was
done in March/April 2004 and repeated in March/April 2006. The data is still being
processed and analyzed, making it difficult for this ICR to base any firm conclusions on
these data. Nevertheless, some preliminary results are presented in Table 2 as a way of
illustration.

With the benefit of hindsight, the ICR team finds the selection of outcome indicators
related to reduction in malnutrition rates rather ambitious. The reasons are three fold.

First, effective exposure to the interventions may have been too short for many of the
participating children to see their nutritional status change significantly. Although
community interventions were launched in early 2004, participation rates continued to
increase till mid-2005.      For example, the number of children enrolled in community-
based growth monitoring and promotion almost doubled from June 2004 (102,857) to
June 2005 (196,088). Children who entered the program at the start of the project were
anywhere between zero and three years, with many being too old to fully benefit from
good caring and feeding practices during the first few months of life, most notably,
exclusive breastfeeding. The impact analysis will carefully analyze the data accordingly
and reveal if indeed the youngest children, who have been exposed by the project since
they were born, have for example been exclusively breastfed longer than their older
siblings. It must also be noted that the quality of community interventions increased over
time, particularly during the first 3-6 months after starting the community activities.
Second, even if these indicators respond to the interventions, they often do so over a
longer timeframe than the project duration.             Most importantly, however, impact
indicators such as malnutrition prevalence are not well suited for evaluating the
performance of a project. These are higher level indicators that are subject to many
factors outside the control of the project. In the Phase II Project, this type of impact
indicator has been avoided, and outcome indicators will focus more on changes in
conditions affecting malnutrition rates (see Annex 13 for the full list of outcome
indicators in Phase II).

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The Project was a category C project and there were no safeguard issues. Financial
management and procurement performance was carried out by the BEN and by the 12
NGOs participating at the local level. It was necessary to provide initial capacity building
to improve the NGOs' financial management structures, a step that improved the capacity
in this regard. External financial audits were completed on time and were satisfactory to
IDA during the years 2002-2005. The final audit report is expected by mid-2007.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The Phase I Project was designed to be followed by a second phase based on a
satisfactory achievement of triggers defined and agreed upon before the signing of the
Project Agreement. Table 1 shows that the triggers for moving from the first to the
second phase were all reached.

Preparation for the Phase II Project started in December 2005, and on November 13,
2006, the Board approved Phase II of the Nutrition Enhancement Project (NEP), which
covers the years 2007-2011. As part of preparation for Phase II, the results of Phase I
were presented and extensively discussed. The NEP will scale up activities and best

practices nationwide, paying special attention to institutional capacity building at the
local and central levels. The overall objective of the NEP is to contribute to the
attainment of the first MDG, the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger through the
implementation of the National Policy on Nutrition Development.

Table 1          Triggers of Phase 1

 Trigger                                    Degree of achievement

 Both urban and rural nutrition             The monitoring system shows a considerable drop
 interventions show positive impact         in the prevalence of malnutrition in both urban and
 on child growth in targeted regions.       rural areas and an increase in the proportion of
                                            children demonstrating weight gain from one month
                                            to the other.

 The CLM effectively coordinates the        (i) The CLM approved four proposals from three
 application of the "Lettre de Politique de Sector Ministries (health, education, literacy) and
 Développement de la Nutrition"             one agency (early childhood development) and
 measured by: (i) at least three sectors    signed technical agreements with each. (ii) The
 having proposed work programs that         audit firm "Cooper and Lybrand" audited the
 have been approved, and (ii) the           National Executive Bureau in 2002, 2003, 2004,
 performance of the executive bureau is     and 2005. Results of each audit have been judged
 evaluated by an independent bureau         satisfactory to IDA.
 and satisfactory to IDA.

 An independent evaluation of Phase I is    Two KPC surveys (Nov. 2003 and Nov. 2005) have
 completed and its recommendations          been conducted in all intervention areas and
 incorporated into the design of Phase II.  preliminary results have been used in preparing the
                                            Phase II project. An independent impact evaluation
                                            is underway. The first round of data collection was
                                            completed in April 2004, and the second round was
                                            conducted in April 2006. Initial results are expected
                                            in October 2006 and will be used to direct the
                                            implementation of the Phase II project.

 Reasonable sustainability is reached       Despite a significant fall in the exchange rate
 with the implementation of the nutrition   against the dollar since the start of the project, the
 interventions (cost per child less than    median cost per child per year for both zones is
 US$8 direct implementation cost in         US$ 4.3; US$ 3.7 in rural areas and US$ 5.0 for
 urban areas and US$4 per child in rural    urban areas. Eighty percent of community-based
 areas).                                    projects have a cost per child per year below the
                                            norms fixed in the trigger.


It is expected that the activities after 2011 will be supported through the national budget,
by other donors, and through other more consolidated financing mechanisms (for
example budgetary support). The Government agreed to cover the funding needs between
the closing of Phase I and effectiveness of Phase II. A total of FCFA 900 million was
included in the amended budget proposal which was voted through Parliament on
November 29, 2006. Due to the vote delay, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
advanced FCFA 200 million to maintain a minimum of project activities. Similarly, the
Bank responded favorably to a PPF request and both sources have ensured uninterrupted
funding for community activities.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The Project was highly relevant to the country's development priorities, during both
preparation and the transition to Phase II. In addition, the Project addressed priorities in
the Bank Assistance Strategy and global strategies to reduce poverty and malnutrition in
vulnerable groups. High malnutrition levels, especially among the most vulnerable
groups of women and infants in rural areas, as well as political momentum to act on the
problems of malnutrition, provides the foundation for long-term planning to decrease
malnutrition as an integral part of poverty reduction efforts.

The project was timely as awareness of the importance of behavior change as a
cornerstone for improving nutrition was starting to manifest itself in contrast to
traditional thinking in favor of mitigation through food supplementation schemes. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) with support from a USAID funded project had successfully
piloted such a community-based strategy for growth monitoring and promotion in a few
Health Districts. Building on that experience allowed for the building of a critical mass
in favor of the new approach and provided a good basis for establishing partnerships.

Since 2000, the malnutrition prevalence has come down for the first time since a decade,
bringing the nutrition target of the MDG1 within reach. As a result of the Phase I project
with its emphasis on results, a real momentum has built up around the broader range of
MDGs for maternal and child health. A Senegal delegation headed by the Minister of
Planning and Sustainable Development proudly presented the NEP achievements at the
"Countdown to 2015: Tracking Progress in Child Survival" conference in London in
December 2005. The international recognition that followed led to the offer of Senegal to
host the next countdown conference in Dakar. At the same time, the Prime Ministers of
Madagascar and Senegal published in one of the international top journals for health a
letter to the editor presenting their engagements and asking their peers on the continent to
follow in their footsteps. A national seminar on maternal, neonatal and child health was
organized in December 2006 with support from all the partners involved.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

As explained in Section 7.3, data for the assessment of Project outcomes comes from two
sources; (i) routine monitoring and (ii) performance evaluations of each sub-project by
representative base- and endline population survey on a wide range of outcome
indicators. A potential third data source, the independent impact evaluation with base-
and endline data from randomized control and intervention groups in rural areas, was still
undergoing further processing and could not be used in time for the ICR.

Following the discussion on outcome indicators in Section 7.3, the ICR team

recommends that the Project be assessed primarily on outcome indicators reflecting
conditions affecting malnutrition (i.e., outcome indicators 3 to 5) since changes in these
indicators can be attributed with more certainty to the Project activities rather than
malnutrition reduction itself (i.e., outcome indicators 1 and 2), which is one level higher,
namely impact.

Routine Project monitoring data show a clear decline in malnutrition rates from 18
percent in December 2004 to 10 percent in December 2005, as well as an increase in the
proportion of children gaining weight compared to the month before from 84 percent to
91 percent over the same 12 month period. With these monthly data on weight gain and
participation rates each month in hand, communities have become empowered in their
ability to improve the nutrition and growth of their children.

Table 2 Outcome indicators for improved maternal and child health in intervention areas
from the base- and endline KPC surveys set against national data from the 2005 DHS

 Outcome indicators (from            Baseline           Endline           Relative        National
 PAD)                                 (2003)             (2005)           change           (2005)

 Prevalence of exclusive
 breastfeeding for the first 6          30%               58%              +93%              34%
 months

 Proportion of pregnant
 mothers who receive
 prenatal care at least 3               52%               67%              +29%              NA

 times

 Proportion of caregivers
 who recognize at least two             55%               77%              +40%              NA
 danger signs in sick children

 Additional outcome indicators which contribute to better child growth and nutrition

 Consumption of iodized salt            46%               59%              +28%              41%

 Vitamin A supplementation
 coverage of children aged
 6-59 months in last 6                (42%)*              85%             (+102%)            75%

 months

 Proportion of children
 sleeping under insecticide-            28%               59%              +111%             10%
 treated bed nets

 Vitamin A supplementation
 coverage of mothers within             27%               51%              +89%              27%
 eight weeks post-partum

*        The low coverage in 2003 was the result of a sudden policy change on campaign-style delivery of
        health services, which were rectified in 2004.

These results are being achieved through behavior change in child care and feeding
practices, and increased coverage of public services through social mobilization as shown
in Table 2. CLM and BEN sought to establish collaborative relationships with various

public health programs in order to bring together various forces and build synergy among
them. As a result, the NEP became a major roll-out mechanism of existing programs for
infant and young child feeding, c-IMCI, and mass and routine distribution of vitamin A
supplements. The public service delivery of vitamin A supplements and insecticide-
treated bed nets greatly improved. These levels of outcome after barely two years of
implementation in the poorest regions of the country are very encouraging for the next
phase of the Project and support the indications from monthly monitoring of children's
weight that impact indicators will change when given enough time.

Data from the 2005 DHS reveal a drop in malnutrition prevalence to 17.4 percent from
22.7 percent in 2000 following a decade of stagnation (22.2% in 1992 and 22.3% in
1996), which suggests that Senegal as a whole is moving in the right direction. The
turnaround in malnutrition prevalence since 2000, which if continued would put Senegal
on track to reach the MDG of reducing the malnutrition rates of 1990 by half by the year
2015, suggests the relevance of continuing what was started in the late 1990s in terms of
direct nutrition action, particularly the acceleration, consolidation and scaling up of
interventions under the NEP.

Table 3 summarizes the degree of achievement of the outcome indicators described in the
PAD including preliminary results from the independent impact evaluation. As explained
earlier, the impact evaluation data is still undergoing further processing and analyses, and
the data presented here are indicative rather than conclusive evidence. In addition to data
shown here, initial results from stratified analysis show significant impact on nutrition
status in two of the three rural regions, and as explained in section 7.3, in children under
18 months. Similar analysis will be conducted to obtain prevalence data.

The outcomes of the Project are remarkable given the relatively short implementation
period (2004-2006). The most significant results are related to the conditions directly
affecting the nutritional status of children (such as breastfeeding practices). Table 2 has
shown that indicators outside the framework of the PAD have also improved and support
the conclusion of improved nutrition-relevant outcomes.

The community nutrition component of the NEP is by far the largest program of its kind
in Senegal. Small pilots existed before but have either stopped or been aligned to the
NEP. Due to the extensive collaboration, the NEP influenced the public health service
delivery system and interventions and strategies of various partner organizations. This
implies that pure "control" areas may not exist within Senegal, and that the NEP is part of
the growing national commitment towards maternal and child nutrition which is being
reflected by changes in outcome indicators over and beyond the NEP intervention areas.
This brings the evaluation of the Project to another major achievement, namely, the
central role CLM is playing towards setting the policy agenda for nutrition in Senegal.

Table 3 Degree of achievement on the Phase I Project outcome / impact indicators

Indicators        Degree of accomplishment             Comments

1. The             Preliminary results from the impact  These indicators are high-level
prevalence of      evaluation in children under three   aspirations of the development
severe             show a drop from 5.7% to 4.5%        objective and unsuitable for
underweight is     (equal to a 21% reduction) in        describing the achievements of the
reduced by half in intervention areas and a similar     Phase I Project. They are included
the targeted       drop from 5.3% to 3.8% (equal to a   only because they are part of the
areas              28% reduction) in control areas.     Phase I log-frame.

2. The             Regular monitoring data on about     The routine monitoring data hides
prevalence of      200,000 children show that the       selection bias in participation, which
underweight        percentage of undernourished         is why they often show higher
among children     children has dropped from 18% in     impact than independent evaluation
under three is     December 2004 to 10% in              data. Nevertheless, participation in
reduced by 25%     December 2005, representing a        growth monitoring was high (>90%)
percent in         drop of 44%.                         and proportion of children gaining
targeted areas                                          weight increased.
                   Preliminary results from the impact
                   evaluation show a drop from 26.8%    The borrower's report uses another
                   to 23.1% (equal to a 14% reduction)  indicator, i.e., wasting, that reflects
                   in intervention areas and a similar  short term aspects of acute
                   drop from 24.0% to 21.7% (equal to   malnutrition. These preliminary
                   a 10% reduction) in control areas.   impact evaluation data show a more
                                                        pronounced reduction in the
                                                        intervention areas


                                                        As discussed, additional processing
                                                        as well as age-specific and other
                                                        analyses of compounding factors is
                                                        needed before making conclusions
                                                        on the basis of the impact
                                                        evaluation data. Initial results from
                                                        stratified analysis show significant
                                                       impact on nutritional status in two
                                                        of the three rural regions, and, as
                                                        explained in section 7.3, in children
                                                        under 18 months. Similar analysis
                                                        will be conducted to obtain
                                                        prevalence data.

3. The proportion  KPC surveys in 2003 and 2005         The outcome exceeded the
of children        show an increase from 30% to 58%     absolute target of a seven
exclusively                                             percentage point increase.
breastfed for 6    Preliminary results from the impact
months has         evaluation suggest an increase       As discussed, additional processing
increased from     from 17.0% to 49.2% in intervention  and analyses is needed before
8% to 15% in the   areas compared to 10.1% and          making conclusions on the basis of
targeted areas.    27.8% in control areas               the impact evaluation data

 4. The use of       KPC surveys in 2003 and 2005        The outcome met the target of a
 prenatal care (at   show an increase of 29% (from       30% increase in prenatal care visits.
 least three visits) 52% to 67%).
 has increased by                                        As discussed, additional processing
 30%                 Preliminary results from the impact and analyses is needed before
                     evaluation suggest an increase      making conclusions on the basis of
                     from 65.3% to 78.1% in intervention the impact evaluation data
                     areas compared to 63.6% and
                     70.3% in control areas

 5. The proportion   KPC surveys in 2003 and 2005        The outcome exceeded the target
 of caregivers who   show an increase of 40% (from       of a 25% increase.
 recognize at least  55% to 77%).
 two danger signs                                        As discussed, additional processing
 in sick children    Preliminary results from the impact and analyses is needed before
 has increased by    evaluation show an increase from    making conclusions on the basis of
 25% in targeted     61.5% to 81.4% in intervention      the impact evaluation data
 areas.              areas compared to 61.2% and
                     78.1% in control areas.


The community nutrition component of the NEP is by far the largest program of its kind
in Senegal. Small pilots existed before but have either stopped or been aligned to the
NEP. Due to the extensive collaboration, the NEP influenced the public health service
delivery system and interventions and strategies of various partner organizations. This
brings the evaluation of the Project to another major achievement, namely, the central
role CLM is playing towards setting the policy agenda for nutrition in Senegal. This
implies that pure "control" areas may not exist within Senegal, and that the NEP is part of
the growing national commitment towards maternal and child nutrition which is being
reflected by changes in outcome indicators over and beyond the NEP intervention areas.

The above achievement has made it possible for the institutionalization of direct nutrition
action through sectoral reforms on the one hand and community-based development on
the other, to be addressed in the design of the Phase II Project.           The process of
decentralized implementation has allowed institutional strengthening at all management
levels. The Project has enhanced the organizational and institutional capacities of the
participating communities, which created Local Steering Committees, charged with
overseeing and facilitating the activities of the community nutrition aides. In many
instances, this has created a high level of representation of and assumption for additional
responsibilities by beneficiaries, which in turn has contributed to collective decision-
making in the communities. The community nutrition aides contributed even further to a
sense of empowerment in the communities by providing growth promotion services, as
well as by playing the role of "social brokers" between mothers and health care providers.
Capacity of the NGOs as well as of District health personnel has been strengthened
through targeted training, supportive supervision, and continued coaching. In the Phase
II Project, Local Government will be more systematically and formally involved in this
process.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Analysis of the core component of community-based nutrition and growth monitoring
and promotion activities in Phase I indicates that the median cost per child per year for
both zones was US$4.3 (US$3.7 in rural areas and US$5.0 in urban areas). The cost per
child was calculated based on all costs involved in conducting community nutrition
activities, but excluding costs associated with the overall program's management
structure. These costs are dramatically lower than the costs in CNP, whereby annual costs
per child in urban areas (without food supplementation) were estimated at US$80. During
the MTR, the average annual cost per child spent by NGO varied considerably. Coverage
rates strongly affected the costs, but the cost data also showed that some NGOs were able
to cut management costs much more than others. These data were one way for the NGOs
to improve the quality of their interventions by learning from each other.

In general, return on investment in nutrition is very high. Several nutrition interventions
have been found to be among the best development investments, such as the provision of
micronutrients. Community-based programs targeted to children under two years of age,
have also been found to be cost-effective in preventing undernutrition (World Bank,
2006). The benefit-cost ratios for nutrition interventions range between 5 and 200, of
which breastfeeding promotion in hospitals range between 5 and 67; integrated child care
programs between 9 and 16; and vitamin A supplementation for children under six years
of age between 4 and 43 (World Bank, 2006).

Malnutrition is known to have long-term health, cognitive and productivity effects on the
children involved, and may generate cumulative economic costs up to 3% of GDP
annually. Such cost levels outweigh short-term fiscal savings accrued from direct
nutrition action to prevent malnutrition and promote adequate growth in young children.
Based on data from Senegal, it has been estimated that malnutrition is responsible for
33% of the under-five mortality rate (PROFILES, 2002). About 16% of the infant
mortality rate is caused by inadequate breastfeeding practices, which corresponds to the
death of 4,000 infants each year in Senegal. It is also estimated that 55% of children
under 5 years of age have vitamin A deficiency, which in the absence of direct action
contributes to the death of 80,000 pre-school-aged children over the next 10 years in
Senegal. Investing in early childhood nutrition is also an investment in education, as
iodine and iron deficiency have irreparable consequences on the intellectual development
and cognitive functions. Similarly, underweight malnutrition in the first two years of life
is associated with a significantly lower school performance in later life. With regard to
the economic consequences of malnutrition, the poor practice of exclusive breastfeeding
alone has been calculated to cost Senegal about US$32 million per year, while the
economic loss due to stunting and iodine and iron deficiency is estimated at about
US$1,084 million over the next 10 years.

Similarly, if Senegal could increase exclusive breastfeeding rates to 50%, reduce stunting
from 19% to 10%, eliminate vitamin A deficiency, reduce iron deficiency in women and
children by 40%, and eliminate iodine deficiency, it would make economic gains to the

value of US$360.6 million over the next ten years. Add to this, the survival of 1,400
infants as a result of exclusive breastfeeding, the survival of 29,000 preschool-aged
children as a result of a reduction in underweight malnutrition, the survival of 21,000 pre-
school-aged children and 1,700 mothers as a result of the elimination of vitamin A
deficiency, the prevention of mental retardation in 360,000 newborns as a result of the
elimination of iodine deficiency, and the many other immeasurable consequences such as
a better quality of life.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The project was highly relevant with regards to the development priorities of Senegal and
to the Bank as expressed in the CAS, which highlighted the importance of malnutrition
reduction as part of the Government's broader efforts to reduce poverty. In addition, the
project has been a turning point in the country's commitment to the health and nutrition
MDGs.

The growth of children under three years of age in poor rural and urban areas has been
improved. The Project has reached or exceeded all (appropriate) outcome indicators,
excluding those regarding malnutrition rates. The results from the population-based KPC
surveys show major improvements in the intervention areas. In addition, the institutional
and organizational capacity to carry out and evaluate nutrition interventions has been
greatly enhanced through a results-based management approach. Within just four years of
Project implementation, nutrition has been repositioned as central to development, and
the CLM has become the central institution for setting the policy agenda for nutrition in
Senegal, influencing service delivery and community activities over and beyond the
Phase I intervention areas. As part of these broader policy reforms, the country as a
whole experiences positive trends in various nutrition-relevant indicators.             The
institutionalization and consolidation of nutrition action and policy development has
moved far ahead of the initial plan.

Compared to the preceding project, the costs per child have been reduced dramatically.
In addition, communities have been empowered, health service delivery show improved
coverage, national institutions for nutrition have been established, and a national policy
and multisectoral program have been developed.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Gender issues in general and women's status in particular are fundamental determinants
of child growth and nutrition. By empowering mothers and involving communities in
focusing on child growth, the project contributes to making women's voice heard at local
level and indirectly at regional and central levels. This is of particular relevance in the
current push towards decentralization and local development. In the Phase II Project, the

Local Development Plans are going to be targeted for the inclusion of nutrition priorities
and action.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The outcome on institutional change has exceeded expectations. The Phase I Project
intended to explore strategies and focus on implementation and results. Subsequent
phases would aim at scaling up of interventions and consolidation of the
institutionalization for nutrition.     However, the program structures have positioned
themselves remarkably efficiently as the central institution for nutrition policies. The
notion of the CLM and the BEN as implementation structures for a World Bank funded
project has never really taken hold in Senegal, and the role and scope of influence of the
institution go beyond that of the implementation of the Phase I Project. The NEP is
characterized by a firm sense of ownership. The focus on results but also the intense
preparations centered around a long-term vision, have contributed to this by turning the
program into a nationally managed achievement.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)




8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

A Beneficiary Assessment was carried out in 2005 and shows that direct beneficiaries
expressed high levels of satisfaction with the provided services. Data was collected
through focus group discussions and questionnaire interviews with direct beneficiaries
(360 questionnaires were administered in total) and members of all 12 implementing
NGOs. The main results are the following:
- The monthly schedule for growth monitoring and promotion activities are perceived as
sufficient by the majority of beneficiaries. Distance to the nutrition sites is considered
satisfactory by 95% of the beneficiaries.
- Behavior change communication is carried out in a clear and easily understandable way
as noted by more than 90% of the beneficiaries. Women would like more home visits
because they are convenient, although 70% are satisfied with the current level of home
visits. This demonstrates the need for explaining the objective of the home visits being a
closer follow-up of children at particular risk for malnutrition.
- The distribution of drugs and mosquito nets are perceived as sufficient by 63% and 48%
respectively. Interestingly, beneficiaries are more concerned about the availability of
mosquito nets than about the price.
- Beneficiaries expressed very high satisfaction levels with the nutrition aides both in
terms of the way they approach the women and their capacity to give advice. In a few
nutrition sites, beneficiaries have expressed low levels of satisfaction, which was
explained by the NGO by the fact that the paid nutrition aides in the previous CNP had
better medical competency and were able to give vaccinations, which the current nutrition

aides are not.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The Risk to Development Outcome is rated Negligible to Low. The Project employs a
flexible approach to adapt to local context for the implementation of Senegal's National
Policy on Nutrition Development essentially to ensure that the most vulnerable groups
are targeted. As anticipated from the beginning, the Government will finance a higher
share of the total project costs in the newly approved Phase II Project (approximately one
third of the total, more or less matching the amount of the Bank credit), which reflects its
commitment to the Program. With determined political ownership, the risk for
discontinuation of project activities is low. Moreover, the CLM is perceived as the
national focal point for advancing nutrition policies, a role that previously was lost
between sectors and donors. Continuous institutional strengthening in the follow-on
Phase II Project is meant to ensure that these rather young achievements are consolidated
into the national Government structures and priorities.

The implementation activities are presented as sectoral and/or institutional
responsibilities, although nutrition-relevant actions have not yet been fully mainstreamed
in all areas. The implementing NGOs have increased their capacity with regard to
community-based nutrition activities. Its relations with the Health Districts and the LG
have been judiciously promoted during Phase I, and strengthening the role of LG will be
given high priority during the Phase II Project implementation. Beneficiaries expressed
high satisfaction levels with the services provided and the monitoring and evaluation
results show clearly that behavioral changes and enhanced usage of health services are
achieved in the intervention areas. With continued strong partnership with the MOH, the
benefits of the integrated approach of c-IMCI can be made available to an increasing
number of women and young children.

However, Phase II will have to demonstrate that Government commitment and ownership
will be adequately consolidated to provide effective leadership in nutrition, ensure scaling
up of interventions to the national level, and sustain the program's achievements when
Phase II support nears its end. This implies putting the funds, which have been pledged,
on the budget and channeling them to the program, ensuring effective coordination in the
area of nutrition, mainstreaming nutrition in sectoral programs (health, education,
agriculture, trade, industry), remaining flexible to adjust to changing priorities (e.g.,
emerging health problems, overweight), mobilizing additional funding from other donors,
and harmonizing procedures of reporting, procurement, and financial management.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

During the design phase of the Project, the Bank team analyzed and responded
proactively to the lessons learned from the preceding CNP (1995-2000) and similar
programs worldwide. Accordingly, the team promoted major policy changes (see section
7.1), which resulted in comprehensive changes in objectives, target groups and strategies
of the NEP. An important decision was to shift from a time-bound project to a longer-
term program mode using the APL instrument for a ten-year period. These major changes
provided the basis for the notion of multisectoral direct nutrition action being central to
development and poverty reduction to now gain traction. Moreover, with its focus on
managing for results as a means of strengthening capacity at all levels, the NEP design
was ahead of its time in the Bank.

The composition of the team, in which the competencies of nutrition and communication
was stressed, was very appropriate for the task. The team carefully negotiated adequate
implementation arrangements. One flaw at entry refers to the initial disbursement pattern
being insufficiently aligned with the Project's needs for preparatory activities in the first
year. This resulted in a 50% disbursement of what was planned during the first year,
which led to the disbursement schedule being modified, rather than pushing disbursement
upward at the expense of a quality preparation. This proved to be an important decision
for assuring high quality of the services provided to the beneficiaries. The social and
institutional analyses of the program were fully appropriate.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision of and support to carry through with the result-based management was well
addressed. Supervision has been adequate in numbers with at least two supervision
missions conducted each year. Similarly, field visits were regularly undertaken by the
Bank supervision team, at least once but often twice a year in addition to several shorter
technical missions from Bank staff based in Dakar. The quality of supervision was
assessed in 2004, in a QAG review, and was rated satisfactory. The consultative manner,
in which the supervision missions were carried out, was greatly appreciated by the BEN,
and led to mutual learning from the Phase I experience. Fiduciary aspects were closely
monitored with particular stringency on procurement during the first year to keep the lid
on eventual inappropriate overspending while applying flexibility to the implementation
of community-based sub-projects. The Task team was able to strike a delicate balance
between leaving room for and giving support to the Borrower to adapt the Project to the
local conditions, while maintaining the focus on the principle development objective. One
example is the time that the Task team gave to the BEN to build its own capacity through
team building and management training along with the preparatory activities, which are

now seen as major contributing factors of the success of the Project. In 2003, however,
the Task team encouraged the BEN vehemently to start rolling out interventions at
community level. Relatively soon thereafter, the first child was weighted by a Major in
rural Senegal.

While it was customary to use prevalence indicators as project outcome indicators at the
time that the project was designed, the Task Team failed to act proactively to changing
these indicators at MTR when discussions in the Bank on outcome versus impact
indicators started to surface. This would have been the right time to replace the high-
level impact indicators with the kind of indicators that the Project is contributing to in a
more direct manner, in a manner similar to the log-frame of the Phase II Project.

The Task team was proactive in preparing for the uninterrupted transition into Phase II of
the Project and a Board-approved plan for the second phase is already in place four
months after the closing of Phase I.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team has responded proactively during preparation and implementation and
provided high-quality support to the Borrower throughout the project period, but failed to
recognize the inadequacy of prevalence indicators at MTR.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Initial reluctance in some parts of Government to accept the paradigm shift in
implementation strategy from mitigation to prevention and promotion was overcome
because of strong leadership by the Prime Minister's Office. The continued leadership,
despite frequent change of Prime Minister, also aided the CLM to boost its role as
overseeing mechanism and coordinating body of project implementation, creating a real
sense of ownership among all participating members. The recent publication of a joint
letter to the editor by the Prime Ministers of Senegal and Madagascar in one of the
world's most renowned medical journals, appealing to all their peers on the sub-Saharan
African continent to make child survival and nutrition a priority in poverty reduction, was
widely noticed by the international community and many governments in the region, as a
source of inspiration.

Various ministries have supported the program. The Ministry of Health and Prevention
provides an essential link between nutrition and other basic health aspects. The Ministry
of Economics and Finance (MEF) took real interest in the program, not least from the
PRSP perspective, and always participated systematically in all supervision missions,
including many of the field visits.          The Ministry of Planning and Sustainable
Development, which monitors the progress towards the MDG also supports the program
as a key mechanism towards achieving several of the MDG targets.

The MEF rapidly agreed to include extra resources on the amended budget to cover the
program needs during the transition between Phase I and II of Bank supported projects.
When it became clear that parliament's vote on the amended budget would not come on
time, MEF agreed to advance more than 20 percent to avoid interruption of community
activities and mobilization.       Despite this demonstration of good intentions, the
government could have been more proactive in anticipating the issue of a financing gap
between the closure of Phase I and start up of phase II.

The borrower has prepared its own ICR, which is of good quality, and a summary is
attached in Annex 10.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency           Performance

                 The CLM has overseen and coordinated the Project effectively and used
                 it effectively to put in place a national nutrition program and position
                 itself as the focal institution for nutrition policy development. Similarly,
                 the BEN as the secretariat in charge of the day-to-day management has
                 performed efficiently and professionally. Despite initial uncertainty
                 about the implications of the changes that were introduced in the Project,
                 the agency responded with a positive and proactive attitude. For example,
                 BEN identified and took the lead in resolving a lack of clarity on the
                 institutional arrangement set up between the CLM and the sector
                 ministries.

                 The BEN impressively improved relations with the various sectors and
                 partners relevant to nutrition, notably the Ministry of Health, which had
                 become very suspicious of the nutrition program following its experience
Cellule de Lutte with the CNP. The NEP is now MOH's principal roll-out mechanism for
Contre la        the C-IMCI, which will be further strengthened with the addition of
Malnutrition     malaria prevention strategies inside the community nutrition component
                 in the Phase II Project. Moreover, collaboration has been strengthened
                 throughout, with the enhanced role of the CLM creating ownership
                 among the sectors, including health, and the emphasis on results which
                 show improvements in many of the health indicators, including health
                 service delivery coverage. The BEN maintains good relationships with
                 other ministries, including Economy and Finance, Planning, and
                 Education. As a result, the CLM is seen by partners and public
                 institutions alike as the Government's focal point for nutrition, and not as
                 merely a Bank-financed project structure.

                 Financial management has been exemplary. Moreover, the BEN's
                 quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports have been rated among the top 10
                 best practices by the Bank. Similarly, procurement has received praise
                 for its efficient handling of the community sub-contracts. Particularly

                  noteworthy has been the capacity strengthening of NGOs in financial
                  management procedures as a determining factor of success, something
                  that is missing in many community based development projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The government and BEN have successfully promoted nutrition as central to development
and poverty reduction.       Given that the Phase I Project puts more emphasis on the
implementing agency than on the Government, the rating leans more heavily on that of
the CLM/BEN.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Learning by doing and subsidiarity. Flexibility in project implementation can contribute
to project achievements. The "learning by doing" approach, together with the consultative
supervision style, encouraged stakeholders to learn skills and develop capacities as the
Project proceeded, and to come up with innovative solutions to improve the Project itself.
 For example, from many sub-projects, it became clear that it was harder to mobilize
pregnant women than women with young children. In response, several NGOs
experimented successfully with alternative mobilization strategies and encouraged other
implementers to also re-evaluate their mobilization strategies. Despite temptations on the
part of the Project leaders to control these processes, the hands-off approach worked well
and facilitated a better understanding of the subsidiarity of organizations and institutions
(notably LG, public services, and NGOs), in the fight against malnutrition. Transparency
and the use of objective, well-defined criteria to select implementing agencies can result
in high-quality project implementers.

Behavior change communication and community mobilization. Behavior change
communication can bring about improvements in nutritional conditions, without a
reliance on external food assistance. In addition, the Project has demonstrated that
dynamic community mobilization processes can significantly enhance public service
delivery systems. Results from Phase I have shown that delivery of certain health
services has been greatly enhanced in the intervention areas. Phase II intends to further
strengthen the links between health services and communities.

Role of women. The Project is in a unique position to make women's voices heard by
taking stock of issues affecting children's growth, and bringing ongoing health-related
problems to the attention of community leaders. Highlighting women's need through
community development activities, and ultimately in Local Development Plans will be
continued in the Phase II.

Institutional development for nutrition. The Project has sparked a debate on the need of
an "institutional home" for nutrition. Phase I has built capacity, as measured by the
improved conditions for nutrition in the intervention areas. As a result, nutrition has

become visible at community, regional and national level.          The program is being
managed by a semi-autonomous and flexible unit, which is in a good position to promote
the multi-sectoral dimensions of nutrition. An attitude of partnership and collaboration
has greatly contributed to the smooth and efficient implementation involving various
sectors, institutions, and partner organizations.     This unique position has created
ownership of the program much faster than anticipated and resulted in the more
qualitative outcome of stakeholders wanting to be active partners in the program.

Local government involvement. LG involvement increases a sense of ownership and
accountability among stakeholders. The decentralization policy provides an opportunity
to place community-based development programs under the responsibilities of LG.
Phase I has provided experience in the best way to collaborate with local authorities, and
these experiences will now be used to facilitate formal and systematic approach to
including LG in the management of the Project.

Monitoring and Evaluation. A strong orientation to managing for results has strengthened
the sense of ownership and performance of all stakeholders involved in project
implementation.     A well-designed monitoring and evaluation system, composed of
various data sources as well as supportive feedback, has been critical to achieving this
outcome.

Strategic communication. The Project has demonstrated that it is possible to built interest
in the fight against malnutrition by increasing awareness of the magnitude of the problem
as well as the scope for direct intervention.      Malnutrition is not typically on the
development agenda, be it at the household, community, district, or national level. There
are numerous reasons for this, including the fact that many forms of malnutrition are
invisible, the magnitude of the destructive impact of malnutrition has only recently come
to light, and those who suffer most have the smallest voices in policymaking and
budgetary decisions. Phase II will continue implementation of the strategic
communications strategy, including feedback on results, initiated during Phase I.

Sector-wide approach: The APL instrument with its ten-year timeframe, has contributed
to the move from a project-based to programmatic approach. In many countries, nutrition
tends to be fragmented, among multiple sectors and donors, producing a series of small-
scale and time-bound interventions. Senegal has made considerable strides in
consolidating actions to address malnutrition. In addition, effective partnerships with all
key players have demonstrated the advantages of a sector-wide approach to nutrition. As
a result, partners have come to see the Project as the national program and the CLM as
the national focal point for the advancement of nutrition policies. As the program grows
in scope, additional financial resources, as well as the harmonization of financing and
reporting procedures, will be required to achieve positive results.

Demand versus supply driven community development: Generally, there is much support
for community driven development which refers to programs that respond to demands
generated by communities. However, until recently, certain development problems such
as malnutrition did not appear on the radar screens at central level, and even less so at

community level. The NEP has demonstrated that a supply driven approach can generate
awareness of critical problems and thereby expand the scope for development.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of the 10-year Nutrition Enhancement Program (NEP) is to
improve the growth of children under three years of age in poor rural and urban areas.
The program will also help to build the institutional and organizational capacity to carry
out and evaluate nutrition interventions.

The Project was the first nutrition project in Africa to design a program using the
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument. The NEP was designed as a ten-year
program (2002-2012), consisting of three Phases; (i) developing strategies and
demonstrating results, (ii) scaling up to national level and between sectors, and (iii)
consolidation of the achievements.

The development objectives of Phase I of this Project were to: (i) extend nutrition and
growth promotion intervention into rural areas; (ii) consolidate and sustain the results
gained with the earlier CNP, which contributed to reversing the negative trend in
nutritional status among children under three in urban areas; and (iii) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition (CLM), the multi-
sectoral coordination commission responsible for the implementation of the national
nutrition policy, as well as its partners in the public and private sector to develop,
implement and monitor multi-sectoral nutrition activities. The CLM was established by
decree in 2001 and placed under the supervision of the Prime Minister's Office. This ICR
refers only to the Phase I Project (IDA-36190; PPFI-Q2660).

The outcome indicators for assessing the achievement of the PDO at the end of Phase I
are: (i) the prevalence of severe underweight is reduced by half in the targeted areas; (ii)
the proportion of underweight among children under three is reduced by 25 percent in the
targeted areas; (iii) the proportion of children exclusively breastfed until 6 months has
increased from eight to 15 percent in the targeted areas; (iv) the use of prenatal care (at
least three visits) has increased by 30 percent in the targeted areas; (v) and the proportion
of caregivers who recognize at least two danger signs in sick children has increased by 25
percent in targeted areas. Section 8.2 discusses the achievements of the project in terms
of outcome indicators. The Table in Annex 1 shows the achievements on the outcome
and impact indicators in relation to base line and target values. Comments are provided
with each indicator explaining the degree of achievement as a percentage, as well as
additional information to enhance the interpretation of results.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

No revisions were made to the project development objectives.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                            Original Target Values         Formally       Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator     Baseline
                 Value          (from approval         Revised Target        at Completion or
                                  documents)                 Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 : The prevalence of severe underweight is reduced by half in targeted areas
Value
(quantitative
or            5.7%          2.9%                                          4.5%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2004 01/15/2006                                       03/01/2006

Comments      Preliminary results from impact evaluation on overall rates for children 0-35

(incl. %      months show a decrease of 21%. Similar values in control areas are 5.3% and

achievement)  3.8% representing a decrease of 28%. See sections 7.3 and 8.2 for more
              information.

Indicator 2 : The prevalence of underweight among children under three is reduced by 25
              percent in targeted areas
Value
(quantitative
or            26.8%         20.1%                                         23.1%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/2004 01/15/2006                                       03/01/2006

Comments      Preliminary results from the impact avaluation on overall rates for children 0-35

(incl. %      months show a decrease of 14%. Similar values in control areas are 24.0% and

achievement)  21.7% representing a decrease of 10%. See sections 7.3 and 8.2 for more
              information.

Indicator 3 : The proportion of children exclusively breast-fed until 6 months has increased
              from eight percent to 15 percent in targeted areas
Value
(quantitative
or            30%           37%                                           58%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003 01/15/2006                                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Increase of 28%-age points, 4 times the target.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : The use of prenatal care (at least three visits) has increased by 30 percent
Value
(quantitative
or            52%           68%                                           67%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003 01/15/2006                                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Increase by 29%, indistinctly close to the target of 30%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : The proportion of caregivers who recognize at least two danger signs in sick

              children has increased by 25 percent in targeted areas
Value
(quantitative
or            55%            69%                                          71%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003 01/15/2006                                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %      Increase by 29%, i.e., 4% above the target.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                            Original Target Values       Formally     Actual Value Achieved at
  Indicator    Baseline                                   Revised
                 Value          (from approval                           Completion or Target
                                   documents)              Target
                                                           Values                Years

Indicator 1 : 170,000 children <3 are regularly monitored and their caretakers counseled
Value
(quantitative
or            0            170,000                                    200,000

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                   06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %      This is the average number of children participating during the last 6 months of

achievement)  implementation. The actual achievement is 118% of the target.

Indicator 2 : Monthly nutrition and health education sessions are held in 80% of established
              sites
Value
(quantitative
or            0            80%                                        95%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                   06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %      The actual achievement is 119% of the target.
achievement)

Indicator 3 : At least 40% of health staff in targeted areas trained in IMCI. Training sessions
              held for nutrition aides in at least 25% of sites
Value
(quantitative              449 health staff trained                   1,122 health staff trained
or            0            Sessions in 205 sites                      Sessions held in 924 sites
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                   06/01/2006
Comments      100% of health post personnel and 78% of district personnel were trained.
(incl. %      Training sessions for nutrition aides were held in 100% of the sites, i.e., 4 times
achievement) the target.

Indicator 4 : At least 40% of health staff in targeted areas trained in promotion of basic health
              services. Training sessions held for nutrition aides in at least 25% of sites

Value
(quantitative             449 health staff trained                   1,122 health staff trained
or            0           Sessions in 205 sites                      Sessions held in 924 sites
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                  06/01/2006
Comments      100% of health post personnel and 78% of district personnel were trained.
(incl. %      Training sessions for nutrition aides were held in 100% of the sites, i.e., 4 times
achievement) the target.
Indicator 5 : At least 40 percent of sites have successfully applied for small grants
Value
(quantitative
or            0           328                                        924

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                  06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %      100% of sites successfully applied for small grants, i.e. 2.5 times the target.
achievement)

Indicator 6 : Comprehensive Growth Monitoring and Promotion strategy and materials
              developed
Value
(quantitative             Strategy and materials                     2,000 c-IMCI (version 1)
or            0           developed                                  3,845 c-IMCI (version 2)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                  06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Materials developed including a second (revised) edition.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Nutrition aides and NGOs trained

Value                                                                c-IMCI: 23 trainers & 163

(quantitative             Staff from 12 NGOs                         NGO staff / FM: 36 NGO

or            0           Nutrition aides in 35                      staff / M&E: 34 coordinators

Qualitative)              subprojects                                / H&N: More than 2,500
                                                                     nutrition aides
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                  06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Representing 100% of the 12 NGOs and nutrition aides.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : 820 nutrition sites are functional (80% community coverage)
Value
(quantitative
or            0           820                                        924

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                  06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Actual achievement is 113% of the target.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : At least 50% of health posts is adequately equipped to manage severely

               malnourished children
Value
(quantitative
or             0            420                                        400

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                    06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Actual achievement is 95% of the target.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Learning events held in 50% of the sites
Value
(quantitative
or             0            410                                        924

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                    06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %       100% of sites organized monthly learning events, i.e., double the target.
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Studies conducted and recommendations integrated into Phase II work plan

Value                                                                  Monthly monitoring

(quantitative                                                          Beneficiary Assessment

or             0            Study reports                              Performance evaluations

Qualitative)                                                           (KPC studies) Impact
                                                                       evaluation
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                    06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Final results are available from all studies except the impact evaluation; only

achievement)   preliminary results are available.

Indicator 12 : Staff in place and trained
Value                       Experts in Nutrition,
(quantitative               Communication, FM,
or             0            Proc. Administrative and                   100%

Qualitative)                supporting staff
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                    06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Staff in the BEN is in place and have been trained. The turn-over rate of staff has

achievement)   been low.

Indicator 13 : Management cost less than 15% of total budget
Value
(quantitative
or             0            15%                                        12.5%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006                                    06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Management costs 17% lower than the allowed maximum.
achievement)
Indicator 14 : At least 80 percent of activities in annual plan completed within cost-estimates

Value
(quantitative
or           0          80%            89% (2004) 92% (2005)

Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/15/2002 01/15/2006    06/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %     2004: 111% 2005: 115%
achievement)

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                            Appraisal
               Components                 Estimate (USD     Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                               M)         Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

COMMUNITY-BASED NUTRITION
AND GROWTH PROMOTION                                7.70              16.70        216.88
PROGRAM
CAPACITY BUILDING,
INSTITUTIONAL AND                                   4.50               1.20         26.67
ORGANIZATIONAL
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
AND RESEARCH                                        1.50               0.70         46.67

PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                  2.50               4.50        180.00
                     Total Baseline Cost          16.20               23.10
Physical Contingencies                              0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.00
                      Total Project Costs         16.20
Front-end fee PPF                                   0.00               0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00               0.00          0.00
               Total Financing Required           16.20               23.10



(b) Financing


                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds             Type of                                  Percentage of
                                 Cofinancing    Estimate      Estimate (USD
                                                (USD M)            M)          Appraisal

  Borrower                                             0.75              1.80      240.00
  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                           14.70             14.40       97.96
ASSOCIATION
  GERMANY:
KREDITANSTALT FUR                                     22.30             23.10      103.59
WIEDERAUFBAU (KFW)
  UN CHILDREN'S FUND                                   0.10              0.10      100.00
  WORLD FOOD PROGRAM                                   4.00              4.00      100.00


(c) Disbursement Profile


Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component I: Community-Based Nutrition and Growth Promotion Program.
All output targets for this component were surpassed (target).
The    community-based      nutrition  interventions  were   fully   outsourced     to   12
implementation agents (NGOs) covering 34 health districts. The selection process
(managed by the BEN) was transparent and consultative, and often cited as an example
by the Bank to other projects. Although this approach was time-consuming, it was also
critical to the creation of a sense of regional ownership. Each NGO was encouraged to
develop a context-driven implementation approach, which has resulted in several
regional differences in terms of mobilization strategies, additional target groups and
costs.

The key outputs are the following:

    1. 200 000 children under three and their mothers mobilized for monthly growth
        monitoring and promotion (target 170 000)
    2. 95% of 924 communities held monthly nutrition and health education sessions
        (target 80%)
    3. 1,122 health post personnel and district personnel (equal to 100% and 78%,
        respectively) trained in C-IMCI and in the promotion of basic health care (target
        40%)
    4. 2, 459 community nutrition aides (equal to 100%) trained in C-IMCI and in
        promotion of basic health care (target was 25%)
    5. 924 small grants (equal to 100% of sites) were applied by the participating
        communities (raise livestock, grow and trade local produce) (target 40%)

The development of strategic communication plans for implementation on the
community, regional and national levels was essential for the promotion of behavior
changes related to child growth. As for pregnant women, a second target group in this
component, the project succeeded in increasing the use of prenatal care. However, for
behavior change communication, pregnant women proved more difficult to mobilize than
women who had given birth, despite the use of the same social mobilization and
communications strategies.

The training of health personnel consolidated their roles as reference and referral for
children in need of medical attention, health service providers (particularly through
outreach) and safeguard for the quality of community activities through training and
supervision. Effective counseling, however, remains a challenge and training still needs
strengthening as pointed out in the Beneficiary Assessment.

Component II: Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation. The main output
targets for this component were met.

This component constituted of (i) significant training portfolio targeted at all levels; (ii)
establishing a forum for stakeholders; (iii) engaging local and regional decision makers

through increasing awareness marketing campaigns; and (iv) installing a monitoring
system to measure all outputs and changes in health indicators. The key outputs are the
following:

    1. 2000 c-IMCI (version I) produced and distributed to community nutrition aides
    2. 3845 c-IMCI manuals (version II) produced and distributed
    3. 23 trainers and 163 NGO staff trained in c-IMCI (representing all 12 NGOs)
    4. 36 NGO staff trained in financial management and procurement procedures
        (100%)
    5. 34 sub-project coordinators trained in M&E (100%)
    6. 924 nutrition sites established and equipped (target 820)
    7. 400 health posts (equal to 46% on a total of 840 health posts) adequately
        equipped to manage severely malnourished children (target 50%)

Capacity building took place through courses to a variety of stakeholders but also and
maybe more importantly through continuous technical assistance. The decentralized
structure with regional representation of the program coordination, allowed for on-
demand consultations by the implementing agencies even on weekly basis. For most
NGOs, this was the first time they collaborated with a government program and this
official status offered the organizations enhanced credibility, unprecedented visibility and
improved image in the eyes of the community members as well as the local government.

Consistent with Senegal's ongoing decentralization process, the project sought to engage
with local decision making structures at the local level starting with community
committees which had to approve the selection of community nutrition aides and oversee
the project activities and results. In addition, NGOs were incited to involve Local
Government officials and the District Health personnel. The ensuing collaboration
mechanisms that were established, became the basis for an open and participatory
reflection on how to gradually make nutrition part of Local Government's responsibility.
These ideas have been operationalized in the second Phase through a form of tripartite
arrangement where Local Government plays a decisive role in selecting and contracting
out community nutrition services to NGOs in line with the decentralization policy.

In addition to community interventions, the CLM also sought the implication of Sector
Ministries regarding their nutrition responsibilities in the National Policy on Nutrition
Development as a first step towards enhancing the capacity in the sectors to plan, manage
and monitor nutrition program activities. The MOH/Division of Food, Nutrition and
Child Survival (DANSE) elaborated annual work plans, which were approved by the
CLM. Similarly, the Ministries of Education and Literacy and the National Agency for
Early Childhood Development developed nutrition pilot projects.           Based on these
experiences, the CLM will engage with the sectors in a more formal and systematic
manner, that is, upgrade pilot projects to annual work plans as is done by the MOH. The
health system's capacity was strengthened through training of primary health care
personnel, equipment or health posts and production of training manuals.

The capacity of MOH/DANSE's in particular was enhanced by the elaboration of annual

work plans, but also by joint field supervision missions together with BEN. As a result,
awareness on the program and community-based approaches has grown considerably.
However, reinforcing or just maintaining the same level of capacity in the public sector is
very difficult due to constant personnel changes at the MOH.

To ensure heed was given to the multisectoral nature of the program, BEN as the
secretariat of the CLM was tasked with bringing together all relevant stakeholders under
the umbrella of the CLM. The stakeholders included representatives from all relevant
sectors, civil society and local government. The CLM meets quarterly, reviews progress,
approves BEN's annual plans of action and budget, validates program outputs, such as
selection of implementing agencies, strategic plans, and policy updates, conducts field
supervision missions, and approves sectoral and community-based sub-projects.

The monitoring and evaluation system was designed as an essential management
instrument emphasizing feed back mechanisms to all stakeholders. The key outputs were:
    -   M&E learning events are regularly being held in all 924 communities (target
       50%)
    -   Completing baseline and endline impact evaluation with control groups, baseline
       and endline KPC studies in each sub-project intervention area, Beneficiary
       Assessment, Annual and Routine Monitoring reports.

The importance of complementing the monitoring data with evaluation data has proven
essential. Large malnutrition reductions found in the monitoring data, (initial
malnutrition rates were 27% in June 2004 and progressively came down to 18% by
December 2004 to 13% by June 2005, and to just 10% by December 2005) are only
partly confirmed in the evaluation studies. A share of this decrease in malnutrition can be
explained by a selection bias in the participation of activities with malnourished children
dropping out of the growth promotion program. Similarly, the two year window in the
impact study is too short to reveal significant changes. Nevertheless, the monitoring data
also show an increase in the proportion of children demonstrating weight gain from one
month to another. All this makes that the capacity of managing for results has improved
considerably among the implementing and coordinating partners.

Component III: Program Management.All output targets for this component were met.
The BEN was responsible for the overall day-to-day management and coordination of the
NEP. Regional coordination was ensured through six regional satellite offices (BER).
This decentralized model allowed for timely support to the implementing agencies, and
regional contact and coordination with Local Government, Health Districts, and other
sectoral representations at regional level. As implementation advanced and capacity of
the BER offices was strengthened, BEN could increasingly allocate its resources to the
broader strategic issues, such as strategy development for a national level scale-up as
planned for the second stage, increased national participation in the execution of the
program through the PRSP process, and participation in national policy debates on child
survival and poverty reduction.
The key outputs are the following:

    1. Staff in place and trained
    2. Management cost was 12.5% of total budget (target 15%)
    3. 89% of activities in annual plan 2004 completed within cost estimates and 92% of
        activities in annual plan 2005 (target 80%)

The capacity of the CLM and the BEN has substantially improved during the course of
the project. Most of the BEN staff was recruited after Board approval of the project. This
induced some initial delays in disbursements. This was compounded by the fact that the
initial schedule did not sufficiently account for the time needed for the BEN to carry out
the NGO selection, their training and preparation of manuals for implementation
partners. Disbursements reached 50% of the scheduled during the first year after which
the trend picked-up and remained steady through out.

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Analysis presented in section 8.3.

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                  Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Harold H. Alderman     Adviser                 AFTHD

Siaka Bakayoko         Sr Financial
                       Management Specia       MNAFM

Demba Balde            Social Development
                       Spec.                   AFTS4

Laurent Mehdi Brito    Procurement Spec.       AFTPC
Flavia Bustreo         Sr Public Health Spec.  HDNHE
Willyanne DeCormier
Plosky                 E T Consultant          AFTHD

Aissatou Diack         Sr Public Health Spec.  AFTH2
Bourama Diaite         Sr Procurement Spec.    AFTPC
Astou Diaw-Ba          Team Assistant          AFCF1
Eleonora Genovese      Consultant              HDNHE
Meri Paula K.
Helleranta             Consultant              AFTH3

Alessandra Marini      Economist               LCSHS-DPT
Menno Mulder-
Sibanda                Sr Nutrition Spec.      AFTH2

Claudia Rokx           Lead Health Specialist  EASHD

Fily Sissoko           Sr Financial
                       Management Specia       LCSFM

Julia Van Domelen      Consultant              MNSHD


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           DO              IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   05/23/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            0.00
2   06/28/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            0.00
3   11/19/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            1.19
4   03/12/2003              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            1.56
5   09/02/2003              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            2.35
6   02/17/2004              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            5.14
7   11/04/2004              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            8.63
8   12/01/2004              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            9.45
9   04/04/2005              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           10.94
10 06/09/2005               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           12.31
11 12/21/2005               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           14.87

12 05/04/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            15.72


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY01                                        16                118.63
                    FY02                                        36                169.70
                    FY03                                          8                28.03
                    FY04                                                            0.00
                    FY05                                                            0.00
                    FY06                                                            0.00
                    FY07                                                            0.00
                                        Total:                  60                316.36
Supervision/ICR
                    FY01                                                            0.00
                    FY02                                                            0.00
                    FY03                                        14                 51.06
                    FY04                                        27                103.90
                    FY05                                        23                 97.77
                    FY06                                        21                137.64
                    FY07                                                            0.86
                                        Total:                  85                391.23

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Highly Satisfactory Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory        Implementing
                                            Agency/Agencies:  Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory        Performance:      Highly Satisfactory

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

A survey on beneficiaries' level of satisfaction with the provided services was carried out
in 2005. A summary of findings are presented in section 8.6 in the ICR.

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

  COMMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ON A CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE NUTRITION
                                   ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM

The Government of Senegal has proudly welcomed the implementation completion report on the
credit granted by the World Bank in support of the first phase of the Nutrition Enhancement
Program (NEP). The government is in full agreement with the World Bank as for the content and
conclusions of the report.

Nutrition has become a priority for the Government of Senegal in the strategy implemented for
the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the reduction of poverty.

The support received by Senegal from the World Bank has tremendously contributed to the
development of the nutrition policy by allowing, among others, an increase in the coverage of
children under three years of age in Growth Monitoring and Promotion. The Government of
Senegal has welcomed the outcomes achieved during the first phase of the NEP. Indeed, the drop
in malnutrition prevalence and the improvement of the knowledge and behaviors promoting good
growth show that we are on the right way to attain the MDG target related to malnutrition.

These results achieved by the program have been facilitated by the quality of the supervision
carried out by the World Bank. This was a regular supervision with the participation of a quality
team which has always managed to contribute to the improvement of the program performances.
We have also noticed the continuity of the supervision despite the change of Project Manager in
the process of the implementation.

The Government has particularly appreciated the work done by the National Committee
against Malnutrition and its National Executive Bureau. Their commitment has enabled to meet
the objectives of the first phase in such a satisfactory way.

The level of performance achieved does encourage the Government in its will to invest more
resources in nutrition. Thus, after having ensured a transition phase with an amount of
900 000 000 CFA F, the Government has undertaken to dedicate for the second phase of the NEP
an annual funding worth more than 1 billion CFA F.

The Government remains convinced that the progress made during the first phase will be
enhanced during the second phase which is due to start in 2007. We hope that the support of the
World Bank for the second phase will remain marked by efficiency and quality collaboration.

Thanks to this commitment, Senegal is among the rare African countries which have brought the
nutrition target of the MDGs within reach by 2015. The strengths of Senegal are based on the
availability of a Policy Letter on Nutrition; the institutionalization of nutrition through the setting
up of a National Committee against Malnutrition placed under the supervision of the Prime
Minister's Office and the estimate of the required investment for the attainment of the MDG.

The Government of Senegal counts on the support of the World Bank to secure the funding
required for nutrition from during the period ranging between 2006 and 2015. This investment,
estimated at US $150 million will help our country reach malnutrition prevalence equal to 10%

or less by 2015.

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document for the Nutrition Enhancement Program, Report No: 23403-SE.
World Bank 2002.
Project Appraisal Document for the Nutrition Enhancement Project in Support of the Second
Phase of the Nutrition Enhanceme nt Program. Report No: 36860-SN. World Bank 2006.
Development Credit Agreement between Republic of Senegal and International Development
Association. World Bank 2002.
Implementation Completion Report on the Community Nutrition Project. World Bank 2001.
Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) on Senegal: Nutrition Enhancement Program. World
Bank 2004.
Project Information Document. Senegal ­ Nutrition Sector Enhancement Program. World Bank
2001.
Implementation Status and Results (2002-2006) #1-12. World Bank.
Aide Memoirs Identification, Preparation, Pre-appraisal, Appraisal and Supervision. Mission de
Revue A mi-parcours 21 fevr ier au 4 mars 2005. World Bank.
Back to Office Reports 2002-2006. World Bank.
Implementation Manual Phase I. World Bank 2002.
Repositioning Nutrition as Central to Development. A Strategy for Large-Scale Action. World
Bank 2006.
Rapport D'Achevement. Phase I / 2002-2006, CLM.
Plan strategique I 2002-2006, CLM.
Plan strategique phase II, 2007-2011. CLM.
Baseline Impact Evaluation. CLM 2002.
Synthese des Resultat des Enquetes sur les Connaissances, Pratiques et Couverture (CPC) des
zones d'intervention du progra mme de renforcement de la nutrition. CLM.
Etude sur la Satisfaction des beneficiaires. Programme de Renforcement de la Nutrition. CLM
2005.
Senegal Enquete Demographique et de Sante 2005. Rapport Final. Dakar 2006.
PowerPoint Presentation and text on consequences of malnutrition. PROFILES 2002.

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1 Results Framework of the Senegal Nutrition Enhancement Project Phase II




PDO                               Project Outcome                 Use of Project Outcome
                                  Indicators                      Information


To expand access to and            Increased overall              YR1-3; Determine if the
enhance nutritional conditions of program coverage of             project adequately expands
vulnerable groups, particularly    under-five year old            first within the 34 districts,
those affecting the growth of      children in rural areas        already in the program
under five year old children in    from 15% in 2006 to            during phase I, followed by a
poverty-stricken urban and rural 40% in 2011                      nation-wide expansion
areas.


                                   Increase in the percentage of  YR4-5; Focus on
                                   infants exclusively breastfed  consolidation of achievement
                                   for the first six months by
                                   30% in the intervention areas  in terms of quality and
                                   by 2011                        sustainability of services.




                                   At least 40% of pregnant
                                   women and children under
                                   five years of age sleep under
                                   insecticide-treated bed nets in
                                   the intervention areas by 2011




Intermediate Outcomes             Intermediate Outcome Use of Intermediate
                                  Indicators                      Outcome Monitoring
Adequate child growth in targeted  At least 75% of targeted       Monitor progress in promoting
children                           children aged 0-24 months      healthy growth in children
                                   show adequate monthly
                                   weight gain by 2011

                                   Increase in the percentage of
                                   pregnant women making at
                                   least four prenatal care visits
                                   by 30% in the intervention
                                   areas by 2011

                                   At least 80% of the mothers of
                                   target children participate in
                                   monthly information and

                                        education sessions by 2011
Improved micronutrient status in        At least 80% of children aged Monitor adherence to vitamin A
targeted children aged 6-59 months      6-59 months in the              supplementation targets and
                                        intervention areas receive high implementation of an integrated
                                        preventive doses of vitamin A anemia control and prevention
                                        supplements twice yearly by     strategy
                                        2011

                                        At least 80% of children aged
                                        12-59 months receive
                                        deworming medication twice
                                        yearly by 2011

                                        At least 90% of the target
                                        number of insecticide-treated
                                        bed nets have been distributed
                                        by 2011
Sectoral ownership and accountability Adoption of child growth          Low levels suggest poor
for nutrition results, particularly in  promotion in children under     implication of the sectors and will
Health and Education                    two and revision of anemia      need attention of all stakeholders
                                        prevention and control
                                        strategy by the MOH by 2009

                                        At least 75% of planned
                                        supervision activities by
                                        implicated health districts
                                        have been conducted by 2011

                                        At least 80% of targeted
                                        children in primary education
                                        receive weekly micronutrient
                                        supplements in the school year
                                        period by 2011

                                        At least 80% of targeted
                                        children in primary education
                                        receive deworming
                                        medication twice in a one year
                                        period by 2011
Government at all levels are aware of   Nutrition indicators are        Feeds into the long-term
the importance of nutrition in          integrated in monitoring tools institutional and financial
development and effectively monitors and documents of the Poverty sustainability of the government's
progress of the implementation of the   Reduction Strategy and          national nutrition program
National Nutrition Policy               Millennium Development
                                        Goals

                                        At least 25% of targeted Local
                                        Governments have
                                        incorporated nutrition
                                        objectives and interventions in
                                        their Local Development
                                        Plans by 2011

MAP

