Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23403-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.8 MILLION
(US$ 14.7 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
OF THE SDR 39 MILLION (US$ 48.70 MILLION)
FOR THE NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
February 20, 2002
Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 11, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
I CFAF = US$0.00132
US$1 = 757 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP      Agence d'Exdcution des Travaux              WIV        Human hmmunodeficiaecy Virus
d'Intiret Public Contre le Sous-Emploi      ICR        Inplementation Completiron Report
APCR        Association des Prisidents des             ICP         Infirmier / Chefde Poste
Communauteis Rurales                       IDA         Intemnational Development Agency
Association of Presidents of Rural         IEC         Infaonn Education, Communication
Com munities                                1 ISDP     Integrated Health Sector Development
APL         Adaptable Program Lending                              Program
BASICS       Basic Support For lnstituionalizing Child  IMCI .o.ted Managartent of Childhood
BCC         Behavior Change Communication                          IDaess
BEN         Bureau ExecutifNational                     [PS        kInmitutd Pfidraederuwdu al
BER         Bureau Executf Regional                     K           KrowBith    Wig   eua
BMI         Body Mass Index                             LBW        Low Bit Weight
CASPAR      Celisle Agro-sylvo-pastorale d'Alerte       MFSN       Mhiristry ofFanuly and Nafional
Rapide                                                 Solidarity
CBO         Community-Based Organization                MIC        Mico-Entreoreneurs Communauttaires
CLM         Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition
CNC         Community Nutrition Center                  MICS        Multi-Indicator-Cluster-Survey
CNLM        Commission Nationale de Lutte contre la     MtA         Mristty of Agticulture
Malnutrition                                MOC        MaFitres d'Oeuwvres Comntantauiret
CNP         Community Nutrition Project                 MOHP        Ministry of Health and Prevention
CNSA        Conseil National de Secuiti                 NEP         Nutrition Enhancenent Program
Atimentai-e                                NGO         Non,Oovemnmeal Organizaton
CNW         Community Nutrition Worker                  NRIP       National Rural Infiastructure Project
CONGAD      Conseil des Organisations Non-              ONAS        Office National de lAssaomssement
Gouvernementales d'Appui au                PAIN        Paquet dA'ctis Intigries de
Diveloppement                                          Nutrition
Council of Development Supporting Non-      PDIS       Projet de D6%eloppement ntlgri de la
Govemmental Organizations                              Sitna
DHS         Demographic Health Survey                   PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
DNAN        Di,vision Nationale d'Alimentation et de    RESSIP     Reseau de Sante, Sida et Populaion
Nutrition (former SNAN)                     SDFP       Social Development Fund Program
DNEPS       Division Nationale de I'Education pour      SNAN        Service Nafional d Alimestrinon et de
la Santi (former SNEPS)                                Nutriton
DDI         Direction de la Dette et de I'              SNEPS      Service National de I'Education pour la
In-estissement                                         Sante
DCEF        Direction de la Coopieation                 STI         SexualDy Trartsmntted Infection
Economique et Financiire                    UNICEF     Urited Nations Children's Fund
ESIS        Enquite Sinigalaise sur les Indicateurs     UROCREN     Unai deR6hydrstanton Orale/Centre
de Santi                                               de Rectqioa  n NutntionnelLe
FMR         Financial Monitoring Report                 WFP        World Food Pvogransdne
GDP         Gross Domestic Product                      WHO         World Health Oanizafion
Vice President:              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:                     John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:                   Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                          Claudia Rokx



SENEGAL
NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  9
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        15
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          18
2. Financial                                                                         18
3. Technical                                                                         19
4. Institutional                                                                     19
5. Environmental                                                                     20
6. Social                                                                            21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                22



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    22
2. Critical risks                                                                     22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     23
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            24
2. Other                                                                              24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         43
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           44
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    49
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            69
Annex I 1: Letter of Sector Policy                                                       71
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation Plan                                                 79
Annex 13: Phase I Costs and Restructuring of Urban Centers                               83
MAP(S)
IBRD 31795



SENEGAL
NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
HDNHE
Date: February 20, 2002                           Team Leader: Claudia Rokx
Country Manager/Director: John McIntire           Sector Manager/Director: Alexandre V. Abrantes
Project ID: P070541                               Sector(s): HN - Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period          Borrower
(Bank FY)
IDA             Others      Total    Commitment    Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date       Date
APL 1        14.70    72.8    5.50       20.20     07/15/2002  01/15/2006 Ministry of Economy and
Loan/                                                               Finance, Senegal
C re d it   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2        24.00    82.8    5.00       29.00    01/16/2006   07/15/2010 Ministry of Economy and
Loan/                                                               Finance, Senegal
Credit  _ _ _ _ _
APL 3        10.00    50.0   10.00       20.00     07/16/2010  07/15/2012 Ministry of Economy and
Loanl                                                               Finance, Senegal
Credit
Total        48.70           20.50       69.20
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant     [ I Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$ 14.7 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       1.50           0.00           1.50
IDA                                                           11.35           3.35          14.70
WORLD FOOD PROGRAM                                             4.00           0.00          4.00
Total:                                                        16.85           3.35         20.20



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
Responsible agency: CELLULE DE LUTTE CONTRE LA MALNUTRITION
Executive bureau of the CLM
Address: Rue 7xH, Point E, Dakar
Contact Person: Mr. Biram Ndiaye, Coordinator
Tel: 221-639-2768           Fax:             Email:
Other Agency(ies):
World Food Programme
Address: 10, Avenue Pasteur x Rue Gallieni, Dakar
Contact Person: Mr. Richard Verbeeck
Tel: 221-849-6530 .         Fax: 221-822-3798            Email: richard.verbeeck(wfp.org
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
2003      2004        2005     2006
Annual     5.10       4.90       2.40      2.30
Cumulative    5.10      10.00      12.40      14.70
Project implementation period: 3 1/2 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/15/2002  Expected closing date:  01/15/2006
OCS AR PAD PamIt R.w M.rd                       2
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The broad purpose of the Nutrition Enhancement Program is to assist Senegal in attaining the first of the
Millennium Development Goals - eradication of extreme poverty and hunger - by supporting Senegal's
Nutrition Policy -Lettre de Politique de Developpement de la Nutrition which aims to improve the
nutritional status of vulnerable groups, i.e., children and pregnant and lactating women. The proposed
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) will support Senegal's nutrition policy in three phases. Phase I (3 1/2
years) will focus on improving the growth of children under the age of three through implementing
multisectoral nutrition and growth promotion interventions on a learning by doing basis in the rural areas,
and making the existing urban nutrition activities sustainable; Phase II (4 1/2 years) will scale up and
geographically expand the conimunity-based nutrition and growth promotion interventions to reach a
greater percentage of the target population; and Phase III (2 years) will mainstream the nutrition policy,
programs and monitoring by ensuring a sustained effective institutional nutrition system, combined with
sufficient national resource commitment over the long term. The duration of each phase is indicative, as is
the achievement of defined targets which will trigger the subsequent phase. IDA support is sought for a
share of the National Nutrition Program outlined in the Lettre de Politique de Developpement de la
Nutrition. Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, World Food Programme, USAID/BASICS, and other donors
will provide additional support.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Nutrition Enhancement Program (NEP) development objective is to improve the growth of children
under three in poor rural and urban areas. The program will also help to build the institutional and
organizational capacity to carry out and evaluate nutrition interventions.
Phase I of the NEP is a preparatory phase that extends nutrition and growth promotion interventions into
rural areas. In addition, Phase I aims to consolidate and sustain the results gained with the earlier project,
which contributed to reversing the negative trend in nutritional status among children under three in the
urban areas. It will further build the institutional and organizational capacity required to enable the Cellule
de Lutte contre la Malnutrition (CLM) and its partners in the public and private sector to develop,
implement and monitor multisectoral nutrition activities in both rural and urban areas. The NEP will focus
in particular on the rural areas, where malnutrition rates are highest. The ongoing nutrition interventions
established under the Community Nutrition Project will be continued, but also transformed into longer-term
preventive nutrition interventions, following the national nutrition program (PAIN) approach. Learning by
doing will be applied through the acquisition and evaluation of experiences on the ground with delivery of
nutrition services by NGOs and other local organizations. By the end of phase I, the NEP aims to have
reached 35 percent of the targeted population in the rural areas and 50 percent in the urban areas. A total
of about 170,000 children under three and about 50,000 pregnant and lactating women will have directly
benefited from the program activities by that time.
Phase II would be dedicated to scaling up interventions and refining implementation capacity, so as to
reach about 60 percent of the target population in seven of the 10 regions.
Phase III would extend the coverage nationwide. At the end of the Program, Senegal would have in place
an effective nutrition system capable of providing nutrition services cost-effectively, adjusting to local
needs, and working cooperatively with communities and local governnent.
- 3 -



3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key-performance indicators to assess the achievement of the development objective by the end of the
ten-year Program are:
* Underweight (Weight for age W/A<-2 s.d.) among children under three reduced by 40 percent at the
national level;
*   Severe underweight (W/A<-3 s.d.) reduced to less than one percent nationwide;
*   Virtual elimination of Vitamin A deficiency;
*   At least 80 percent of rural communities are aware that malnutrition is a development problem ;and
know of actions to address the determinants of malnutrition; and
*   the decline in under-five mortality has accelerated, due in part to the Program.
Specific outcome indicators are:
Phase I (through 2005): (i) the prevalence of severe underweight is reduced by half in the targeted areas;
(ii) the prevalence of underweight among children under three is reduced by 25 percent in the targeted
areas; (iii) the proportion of children exclusively breastfed until 6 months has increased from eight to 15
percent in the targeted areas; (iv) the use of prenatal care (at least three visits) has increased by 30 percent
in the targeted areas; (v) and the proportion of caregivers who recognize at least two danger signs in sick
children has increased by 25 percent in targeted areas.
Phase II (through 2010): (i) program coverage has increased to 60 percent in seven of the 10 regions; (ii)
the prevalence of severe underweight is reduced to less than one percent in the targeted areas; (iii) the
prevalence of underweight among children under three is reduced by 25 percent in the seven regions; (iv)
the proportion of exclusively breastfed children increases to 45 percent in the first three regions and
increased to 15 percent in the additional four regions; (v) the use of prenatal care has increased by 30
percent in all seven regions; and (vi) local authorities are working cooperatively to take over and manage
basic nutrition interventions.
Phase 111 (through 2012): (i) program coverage has extended to all regions; (ii) the performance indicators
of the ten-year program are achieved; (iii) local authorities have taken over and are managing basic
nutrition services cost-effectively; and (iv) the Lettre de Politique de Developpement de la Nutrition has
been evaluated and updated as necessary.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98-2 Date of latest CAS discussion: January 29, 1998
Support for the Government's poverty reduction objective is at the center of the Bank's CAS. The
Government's overall development strategy is to reduce the incidence of poverty and create gainful
employment opportunities for youth through higher growth rates and the application of effective measures
of social and human development. The NEP will directly support the Government's poverty reduction
strategy by improving nutritional status. Malnutrition is not only a result of poverty, but also a cause to
poverty. Malnutrition leads to increased morbidity and mortality risk and thereby to foregone earnings,
even increased expenses, due to care for the affected individual. Moreover, anemic adults, stunted adults,
and very thin adults are less productive - have lower work output in physical labor than better nourished
adults- and are less likely to be hired. By improving the nutritional status at an early stage in life, the NEP
- 4 -



will improve not only the quality of life, it will also positively impact on education and productivity in later
life and thus reduce poverty. Improvements in nutrition also reduce the cost burden to poor households
caring for sick children.
The NEP supports the recommendations of Senegal's draft Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
concerning the importance of nutrition interventions in alleviating poverty. The draft PRSP not only makes
mention of the importance of fighting malnutrition, but includes budgetary provisions for nutrition
interventions, such as growth promotion, under the health sector activities. The draft PRSP promotes an
approach to regional development through more active partnership between the Government, social and
professional groups, and communities. The NEP will apply this approach. The Government will serve as
the policy making entity, universities and leading professionals will provide technical input and the private
sector, including NGOs, will carry out the nutrition interventions.
'I
I-PRSP (IDA/SecM2000-292) was presented at the Board on June 20, 2000. The Board distribution of the full I-PRSP is
currently planned for first half of 2002.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1. Sector Issues
2.1.1. Malnutrition Prevalence
In recent years, Senegal has returned to the path of economic growth. GDP is estimated to have grown on
average about 5 percent annually over the last six years. Despite this resumption of economic growth,
social indicators, including malnutrition, remain a cause of concem. As the I-PRSP demonstrates, social
development has lagged behind economic growth. Over 58 percent of households are living below the
poverty threshold, defined as an intake of 2,400 calories per day for adults. Although national chronic
malnutrition or stunting rates decreased from 23 percent in 1996 to 19 percent in 2000
(Multi-Indicator-Cluster Survey, MICS, 2000), malnutrition remains a serious problem among the poor,
especially in the rural areas where most of the poor live, and among the very young (6-36 months), who
are the most vulnerable.
The most recent data for Senegal by income quintile show much higher wasting and stunting rates among
the lower quintiles. More seriously, the data also show these rates having deteriorated by about 30 to 100
percent from 1986 to 1992. After 1996 the trend reversed for stunting, while wasting, in fact, increased.
Wasting is an indication of acute food shortages, frequent diarThea and other infectious diseases. Stunting
decreased by four percentage points over four years, at a time when the annual economic growth was
steady at five percent. However, relying solely on economic growth would take decades to reduce stunting
rates to the level proposed for 2015 in the I-PRSP, and has not has been effective in reducing wasting rates.
A recent study by Alderman et. al. (2000) analyzed data from 63 developing countries. According to the
findings, if countries can achieve a stable 5 percent per capita income growth, children's underweight could
decline by around 20 percent within 10 years. Even assuming this ambitious target is met, the rural poor,
where malnutrition is more prevalent, will benefit less. Malnutrition rates can be reduced much faster with
direct nutrition interventions. Experience in Senegal demonstrates success with direct community nutrition
interventions, such as the first Community Nutrition Project (Implementation Completion Report, ICR no.
21429), the national child growth promotion program PAIN, managed by the Ministry of Health and
Prevention (evaluation report 1999) and other smaller-scale interventions.
- 5 -



Frequent bouts of acute malnutrition and chronic malnutrition in early life have a detrimental impact on a
person's health status and mental development throughout life. The recent MICS, 2000 survey shows a
peak in malnutrition between 12 and 36 months. In the rural areas 28 percent of children between 12 and
23 months are underweight, of which eight percent severe. In the urban areas 20 percent of this age group
is underweight, of which two percent severe. Children between 24 and 36 months have underweight rates
of 24 percent in the rural areas and 19 percent in the urban areas. Wasting rates in this age group, as well
as among infants, are very high, at 13 and 12 percent respectively in both urban and rural areas. According
to the World Health Organization (WHO), wasting rates higher than five percent at the national level
constitute a serious public health problem.
A mother's nutritional status has a major effect on child morbidity and mortality through its impact on birth
weight, prematurity, and nutrient stores in infants. An estimated 15 percent of women between 15 and 49
have a Body Mass Index or BMI less than 18.5, and are therefore classified as seriously underweight. Low
birth weight (LBW) is high at 13.4 percent, and probably underestimated, but varies widely across regions.
For example, LBW is alanningly high in Diourbel (29 percent) and Fatick regions (22 percent), while
Thies and Tambacounda have rates below ten percent. High LBW suggests that matemal energy intake
and reserves are insufficient to cover the needs of women's heavy workload and adequate fetus growth.
Another contributing factor to LBW is anemia, which is highly prevalent among women and aggravated by
frequents bouts of malaria.
2.1.2. Micronutrient Deficiencies and Quality of the Diet
The limited recent data on micronutrient deficiency in Senegal, show that in particular iron deficiency is
widespread, especially among the poor. Despite the Bamako Initiative, which has resulted in increased
access to iron supplements, anemia among pregnant women is alarmingly high, at 56 percent in 1996. The
CFA franc devaluation in 1994 is likely to have made the situation worse, especially by limiting the
diversity of the diet. For example, intake of meat, a major source of dietary iron, fell from 16 to 8
kg/person/year. Meat intake in poor families declined even more sharply, from six to two kg/person/year.
To ensure adequate vitamin A stores in infants during the first six months of life, breast-feeding mothers
should receive a vitamin A capsule shortly after giving birth. Vitamin A deficiency is a major cause of
early childhood mortality. Megastudies show that vitamin A supplementation alone can reduce under five
mortality by 23 percent. Vitamin A deficiency is widespread in the regions of Diourbel, Fatick, Kaolack
and Saint-Louis (UNICEF, MSAS, 1999). The national immunization days integrate the distribution of
Vitamin A capsules, increasing the national vitamin A supplementation coverage in Senegal. As a result 80
to 90 percent of children under five receive a vitamin A capsule each year since 1998. However, routine
supplementation is low and only a small proportion of children receive the minimum of two doses each
year. In addition, no more than 30 percent of all mothers (25 percent in rural areas) receive vitamin A
supplementation within the first two months after delivery.
In 1992, goiter prevalence, a consequence of iodine deficiency, was endemic in two areas of the country.
Although much progress has been made with the iodization of salt, only 30 percent of households are now
consuming iodized salt (23 percent in rural areas). Iodized salt is produced in Senegal, but 80 percent of it
is exported. The majority of Senegalese themselves consume non-iodized salt produced by relatively small
producers.
2.1.3. Determinants of malnutrition
-6 -



Childhood illnesses Nutrition status strongly affects the ability of children to cope with other childhood
illnesses such as malaria, acute respiratory infections, measles, and HIV seropositivity, since it affects their
immunological status. Moderate and severely malnourished children have a much higher risk of dying than
well-nourished children from any of these diseases. In addition, communicable diseases, in particular
repeated episodes of persistent diarrhea, contribute to child malnutrition. For children who suffer from
multiple diseases to achieve adequate health outcomes, integrated approaches are essential.
Inadequate access to, and poor quality of, primary health care services remain major problems in Senegal
as demonstrated by the high prevalence of preventable and treatable diseases, especially among young
children and women. Data show a decrease in vaccination coverage since 1990. For example, only five
regions have reached the coverage objective of 90 percent for BCG. Regular monitoring allows for early
detection of growth faltering and helps prevent malnutrition. Yet, such monitoring is done for only 11
percent of children under five, according to the latest health survey (Enquete Senegalaise sur les
indicateurs de Sante, ESIS, 1999). However, the use of prenatal care services has increased over the past
15 years. Just 30 percent of pregnant women sought professional prenatal care in 1986, compared to 80
percent in 2000. These gains have been most dramatic in rural areas, where the percentage went up from
18 percent in 1986 to more than 70 percent in 2000. In 1993, 70 percent of pregnant women made at least
two prenatal visits. By 1999, 64 percent made at least three visits.
Breast milk, the optimal food source for infants and young children, is available to most children up to 18
months. Although virtually all women breastfeed at some point, only 16 percent do so, as recommended,
within the first hour after birth (DHS, 1997). The practice of exclusive breastfeeding - recommended for
the first six months of life - is still uncommon for most mothers. In 1997, only three percent of infants
under six months were exclusively breastfed.  However, there are indications that the situation is
improving, since 24 percent of infants are now being exclusively breastfed for the first four months of life
(MICS, 2000). Beginning at six months of age children need complementary foods. In Senegal, these
foods are of insufficient quality and are given too infrequently to support adequate growth. Fortunately,
the traditional type of weaning food - la bouillie - can easily be improved, for example by adding peanut
butter and curdled milk, both of which are available locally.
Poor breastfeeding practices contribute to childhood illnesses. According to a recent study, a total of 26
percent of children under five suffer from diarrhea (MICS, 2000). Among them, only a fraction used the
recommended oral rehydration solution. Malaria is the number one cause of morbidity and mortality for
children under five and is a major contributing factor to early childhood anemia. However, less than 15
percent of children under five in Senegal sleep under a bednet as a precaution against malaria. Only 11
percent among those sleep under impregnated bednets. The project will promote the use of impregnated
bednets for mothers and children.
Water and sanitation  Inadequate supplies of drinking water and sanitary facilities contribute to
malnutrition through increased morbidity risk. Senegal's goal to achieve a minimum potable water
provision of 35 lcd (liters/capita/day) is still far from being reached. Over the last four years, access to
potable water has improved from 67 percent to 73 percent, with the most important increase being realized
in the rural areas. Cities and towns, although still better off than the rural areas, in fact saw a net decrease
in access, from 91 percent to 84 percent during the same period. Only 56 percent of households in Senegal
have access to an adequate system to dispose of household solid waste. This is far from the goal of 100
percent, but is nevertheless an improvement of almost 20 percentage points since 1996. Hygienic disposal
of wastewater is practiced in only 21 percent of urban households and in less than one percent of rural
households.
-7-



Food security Senegal is a drought-prone country. Although it has not suffered a serious drought in recent
years, food security remains an important issue. The devaluation of the CFA Franc in 1994 had a negative
impact on the food security situation in the urban areas. Prices rose and households cut back on the
number of meals per day. Although no explicit studies were undertaken at the time, it is likely that rural
households were also affected. Diagana et al.(1999) found a decrease in total cereal intake after the
devaluation, especially among the poorest groups. The expected increase in consumption of other local
coarse grains, roots and tubers following the devaluation did not take place. Families began to reduce their
consumption of vegetables, fruits, edible oils and meat, further jeopardizing the already poor quality diet.
2.2. Government strategy
The Lettre de Politique de Developpement de la Nutrition (2001) was prepared in a participatory process
involving all stakeholders in nutrition. The Lettre reflects Senegal's commitment to reduce and prevent
malnutrition through multisectoral actions that address the determinants of malnutrition. The Lettre
emphasizes integration of nutrition into the I-PRSP process and existing poverty and health sector
programs, the process of decentralization, the promotion of community participation and of private-public
partnerships, as well as transparency during implementation.  The Lettre highlights the following
constraints and areas for development which guided the preparation of the NEP: (i) lack of synergy among
ongoing nutrition interventions; (ii) weak information systems; (iii) insufficient quality control of
agro-industry products; (iv) inadequate community participation in nutrition interventions; (v) insufficient
feedback about results to communities; (vi) lack of coordination among partners and interventions; and (vii)
socio-cultural constraints related to taboos, myths and dietary habits.
To address these constraints, the Lettre proposes specific actions to: (i) reorganize and strengthen the
managerial framework between existing nutrition programs; (ii) improve the nutrition surveillance,
information sharing, and feedback systems; (iii) improve agricultural production, agro-industrial research,
and quality control; (iv) strengthen the collaboration between the public, private and NGOs/civil society
sectors; and (v) strengthen community nutrition programs. These issues are also being addressed under
Bank-supported operations in Senegal, notably in the Agricultural Services and Producer's Organizsations
Project (CR:3219-SEN) and the Social Development Fund Program (CR:3446-SEN).
In its efforts to translate this strategy into a coherent action program, the Govemment is starting from a
basis of experience gained in the recent past. For example, DNAN, the national nutrition division under the
Ministry of Health and Prevention, is implementing the PAIN, the national nutrition and child growth
promotion program. PAIN integrates two major approaches in nutrition: (i) growth monitoring and
promotion of children between 0 and 36 months at the community level; and (ii) the provision of basic
nutrition and child care services, including breast-feeding and appropriate complementary feeding
practices, distribution of micronutrients, and management of severely malnourished children. The program
began in 1998, and results from a preliminary evaluation are positive.
A Community Nutrition Project, assisted by the IDA, WFP and KfW, was completed in mid-2000. This
project supported the delivery of nutrition services in urban areas at community nutrition centers. The
project succeeded in halting a further deterioration of the nutritional status of young children in the targeted
urban areas, but at very high levels of project expenditure and low levels of local capacity strengthening.
The project could have benefited from more substantial use of local women's groups, NGOs and other
existing structures.
-8 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In light of the progress and opportunities in nutrition and health, the Nutrition Enhancement Program
(NEP) is designed to achieve nutrition outcomes through specific changes in current practices that will
result in sustainable nutrition interventions at the community level.
First and foremost, the NEP aims to realize significant reductions in the cost of nutrition interventions per
child, in particular in the urban areas. This outcome is to be achieved primarily by shifting the focus of
public assistance from salaried nutrition workers, managed by a central agency, to local nutrition aides
serving their communities on a primarily volunteer basis. NGOs, and others, will provide such aides with
continuous guidance, training and mentoring. Although unpaid, the aides will receive continuous skills
training, bonuses and other regular performance-based incentives. Many or most of the private sector
professionals hired under the earlier Bank-assisted project, having already acquired experience in the
sector, are expected to become eligible implementers capable of providing adequate program support to
nutrition aides.
Secondly, over the ten-year life of the program, local communities in Senegal will assume a greater share of
responsibility for service delivery, including in nutrition and health. The NEP consequently aims to clarify
roles and responsibilities among service providers, community groups and local government, so as to build
effective partnerships. At the national level, a coordinating entity in the Office of the Prime Minister will
ensure consistency in the delivery of nutrition services among government agencies and donors. This
entity, the Cellule de Lutte contre la Malnutrition (CLM), will also ensure adequate professional
competence and operational capacity to maintain attained nutrition outcomes.
Finally, through careful monitoring of results and evaluation studies, the NEP would determine the
cost-effectiveness both of attained outcomes and of the support systems put in place. Demonstrated
cost-effectiveness will be an important factor in determining the preparedness of communities, line
ministries, and local governments to take over and manage nutrition services.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Both the Government and IDA recognize that achieving the desired nutrition outcomes requires sustained
efforts over the medium term. The Government has therefore requested the Bank to support a ten-year
program to achieve the goals set out in its Lettre de Politique de Developpement de la Nutrition. For this
reason an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), in three phases over ten years, is recommended. The APL is an
appropriate instrument under which to support the main goal of improving the nutritional status of
vulnerable groups, while building current nutrition interventions into one nationwide program, and
strengthening institutional capacity.
The proposed triggers to move from phase I to phase II are:
*   Both urban and rural nutrition interventions show positive impact on child growth in targeted regions;
*   CLM effectively coordinates the application of the Lettre de Politique de Developpement de la
Nutrition (measured by: (i) at least three sectors have proposed work programs, which have been
approved; and (ii) the performance of the executive bureau is evaluated by an independent bureau and
is satisfactory to IDA);
*   An independent evaluation of phase I has been completed and its recommendations incorporated into
the design of phase II;
*   Reasonable sustainability has been reached with the implementation of the nutrition interventions (cost
per child less than US$ 8 direct implementation cost in urban areas and US$ 4 dollars per child in rural
areas).
-9-



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The objective of the NEP is to improve growth of young children in poor rural and urban areas through the
implementation of a community-based nutrition and growth promotion program. Phase I consists of three
main components: (i) a Community-Based Nutrition and Growth Promotion Program; (ii) Capacity
Building and Monitoring and Evaluation; and (iii) Program Management.
Component I: Community-Based Nutrition and Growth Promotion
The Community-based Nutrition and Growth Promotion Program consists of five sub-components: (1)
Growth Monitoring and Promotion; (2) Nutrition and Health Group Education; (3) the Integrated
Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI); (4) Basic Health Services; and (5) Fighting the Roots of
Malnutrition. These sub-components do not refer to separate sets of activities, but rather to a gradual
expansion of integral nutrition-relevant community activities. The main focus of the first component is on
the promotion of adequate growth to prevent malnutrition through a package of conununity-based
interventions starting with pregnant women. This includes the promotion of prenatal care as well as
appropriate information on adequate weight gain and iron/folic acid supplementation to prevent low birth
weight and correct breast-feeding practices. Following birth, nutrition aides together with the caretakers
will monitor the growth of newboms on a monthly basis until the age of 36 months.
Trained community members or nutrition aides counsel caregivers on appropriate decisions regarding child
care and feeding practices based on monthly weighing results of the child. The counseling refers to a
negotiation process which attempts to improve caregivers' behavior in a gradual manner. Hence, nutrition
aides will organize monthly weighing sessions during which children under the age of three are weighed.
Nutrition aides together with caregivers record the weight on the growth chart to evaluate the adequacy of
child growth. Inadequate weight gain will automatically lead to a discussion on possible causes, such as
infectious diseases or feeding practices. Nutrition aides will then visit children with inadequate weight gain
at home and counsel caregivers in an effort to identify mutually agreeable solutions on what action can be
taken that will be feasible for the caregiver and that the nutrition aide considers important for child growth.
Home visits will also be made to children who fail to participate in previous months' growth promotion
session.
Once nutrition aides master growth promotion well, other activities will be gradually introduced at
community level such as monthly group education, promotion of Integrated Management of Childhood
Illnesses (community IMCI) and basic health services. The group education sessions will be participative
and will discuss common nutrition and health problems and nutrition aides transmits key messages on best
practices. Similarly, key messages on IMCI will be discussed in these education sessions as well as during
the growth promotion activities, while micronutrient supplements, anti-malarial drugs, deworming tablets
and impregnated bednets will be locally available for systematic promotion. Finally, results from growth
promotion activities will be discussed in community committees. This information will be used to analyze
and prioritize community problems, identify appropriate solutions and draw up proposals for financing by
other ongoing projects. However, for small projects of up to US$500 per community, the community grant
- 10-



fund (sub-projects) provided by the program, supports accompanying activities that influence nutrition
according to community determination as a last resort financing when no other resources are available.
Component II: Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation
Institutional and organizational capacity building is an overarching component that will be started in phase
I of the NEP and continue throughout the three phases. It addresses all actors related to the nutrition
system. Much attention will be given to improve the inter-organizational relationships which posed
problems under the earlier project. Also, the NEP will reinforce communities' capacities to effectively
voice their views and needs to the local decision-makers to bring nutrition and related activities on the
agenda. There are two areas of particular attention during phase I: (a) strengthening institutions/systems;
and (b) strengthening organizations and their human capacity. The program will provide essential material
and equipment such as scales, growth charts and communication and training materials.
The system of Monitoring and Evaluation will be developed (in further detail) to ensure that all levels of
activity are monitored according to the annual plans and are evaluated to improve the program in the
future. The evaluation component will include a strong emphasis on "learning by doing" and the active
participation of all stakeholders in sharing information on strengths and taking responsibility for improving
weaknesses. This system should provide for greater bottom up accountability, transparency and learning
by doing.
Component III: Program Management
The national executive bureau (BEN) will be responsible for the daily management of the NEP. It will
ensure the financial management, the reporting and auditing systems and the handling of procurement. It
will select and contract out to implementers the execution of the NEP interventions and facilitate the
supervision of the interventions by the designated sector-ministries and departments. Regional executive
bureaus, with limited number of staff, will be established in six regions to ensure decentralized
coordination.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (US$M)    financing
1. Community-Based Nutrition and  Nutrition             7.70      47.5       6.70      45.6
Growth Promotion Program
2. Capacity Building and Monitoring  Nutrition          4.50      27.8       4.20      28.6
and Evaluation
2.1. Institutional and Organizational
2.2 Monitoring and Evaluation and                       1.50       9.3       1.50      10.2
Research
3. Program Management                                   2.50      15.4       2.30      15.6
Total Project Costs                   16.20     100.0      14.70     100.0
Total Financing Required                     16.20     100.0     14.70      100.0



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Clarifying roles and eliminating the overlap in responsibilities among agencies responsible for Nutrition.
The 'arrete' establishing the national executive bureau, which was signed on December 26, 2001, mandates
the bureau with assisting the CLM in its definition of the national nutrition policy. This is in conflict with
the mandate of the national nutrition division (DNAN) under the Ministry of Health and Prevention and
may cause coordination and responsibility problems that can negatively influence the successful
implementation of the NEP. The definition of the national nutrition policy is the sole mandate of the CLM
which is herein assisted by the technical divisions under the line-ministries.
3. Benefits and target population:
The program will contribute to the well-being of children under three and pregnant and lactating women
living in poor rural and urban areas. Better nutrition status such as water and sanitation and food security,
is expected to improve the health status of children and women. Nutrition improvements in early childhood
will enhance learning and cognitive skills, as the children grow older. As a result of the program, selected
community members will become trained nutrition aides. At the same time, households and communities
will organize themselves to address malnutrition and its underlying determinants more effectively. The
NEP is also expected to have economic benefits, primarily in the form of increased productivity arising
from lower mortality and morbidity rates for children and women. Significant savings in health care
expenditures are also expected as a result of reduced morbidity and mortality. By the end of phase I, about
170,000 children under three and about 50,000 pregnant women, are expected to have directly benefited
from the program. In phase I three regions will be targeted for implementation of nutrition interventions in
the rural areas; Fatick, Kaolack and Kolda.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
CLM                            Sector
(Policy Body)                    Ministries
(Lettres
Technical     lI      M&E                   d Excution)
|Committee    |||Committee          |
National Executive Bureau
(BEN)
,-        .
Regional Bureaux
(BERs)
NGOs, Associations, Private Agencies etc.
Communities
- 12-



4.1 Institutional Arrangements
The NEP structures are set out in the diagram above. The nutrition aides will be responsible for the
nutrition and growth promotion activities described in Component 1. The NGOs (including private
enterprises, consultants, "Associations" etc.) will be contracted to facilitate social mobilization for nutrition
growth promotion activities at the community level in selected districts. In addition, they assist the
community in the selection of nutrition aides and ensure their training and the supervision of the activities.
They will also ensure the availability of program materials and equipment. This will be primarily done
through strengthening the capacity of the health posts, for example through additional personnel. The
health post is the first level at which NEP activities are formally integrated with the health system. The
BER will initially be responsible for the mobilization of NGOs, the coordination and regional level
monitoring and evaluation. They will gradually take on contracting and financing responsibilities as the
program expands in phase II. The national executive bureau (BEN) is charged with the day to day
management of the Program and assures the secretariat functions of the CLM. The CLM is responsible for
developing the Nutrition Policy, ensuring the multisectorality of the program and approving strategies,
annual work plans and budgets. Technical divisions, such as the national nutrition division (DNAN),
national nutrition education division (DNEPS) under the Ministry of Health and Prevention, and technical
departments from other line ministries are represented in the Technical Committee that assist the CLM with
the development of the Nutrition Policy and provides expert advice. A Monitoring and Evaluation
Committee is responsible for the performance evaluation of the national executive bureau.
4.2. Implementation Arrangements
There are a number of mechanisms required to ensure the effective implementation of the program. These
are described in more detail in Annex 2 (and the Operations Manual) and include:
(i)    An effective and participatory annual planning process for which the BEN is responsible. This will
incorporate the plans developed at community, district and regional level through participatory process and
take into account lessons leamed at all levels.
(ii)   A comprehensive training plan developed by BEN, DNAN and DNEPS that will ensure formal
training according to modules as well as on-the-job training of nutrition aides and supervisors (the latter a
case of training the trainers). Supervision will be aided by a comprehensive monitoring system that
provides each supervising level with relevant program implementation performance information.
(iii)  A comprehensive IEC (Information Education Communication) and BCC (Behavior Change
Communication) strategy to ensure appropriate social mobilization methods, development of messages
and their transmission in a manner that results in behavior change by care-givers of children in
communities. The shift here is from group education sessions only to include a focus individual counseling
by nutrition aides. The CLM will also play a key role in mobilizing political support and national
awareness of the program through advocacy actions such as information kits, training of joumalists, use of
media and national workshops.
(iv)   The process of selection and contracting of NGOs by the BEN/BERs to ensure implementation of
the NEP in target communities in each district. The process is described briefly in Annex 2 and includes
eligibility criteria such as legal status, demonstrated capacity in community development, basic financial
management and cost-effectiveness.
(v)    The process of selection of the activities addressing underlying nutrition problem, eligible for the
$500 grant per community to be conducted by the BERs according to various eligibility criteria such as
motivation, participation, management and reporting by the community itself.
(vi)   A comprehensive capacity building plan (see Annex 2, component 2 for further detail) and a M&E
- 13 -



Plan for implementation and use by each level of activity (see annex on monitoring and evaluation).
(vii) Workprograms or Lettres d'execution would be proposed by sector ministries to the CLM for
approval, to implement specific nutrition related activities in their respective sectors.
4.3. Financial Management, Procurement Skills and Operational Performance
Financial management and procurement skills will be ensured within the NEP by the existence of
appropriately trained staff in the BEN. Due to the duration of the 10 year program and intended
sustainability of the program, the development of financial and procurement skills within the NEP
management team is a priority. The allocation of financial management responsibilities to the BERs (if
desirable for program expansion during phase II) will require mechanisms to be determined as part of the
evaluation of phase I. Financial and procurement management will be supervised by IDA and subjected to
independent audits. Annual performance evaluations of the BEN (and BERs) will be conducted by
independent consultants as a means of providing career development assistance and supporting the future
management of the NEP. These evaluations will assist the CLM and its monitoring and evaluation
Committee in its responsibility for evaluating the BEN's performance. The NEP Operations Manual and
Financial and Procurement Manuals will provide further detail.
4.4. Flow of Funds
It is expected that resources needed towards the financing of program activities will flow from two
accounts; the Special account for the resources provided from the credit account and the Program account
for the counterpart funds. It has been agreed that, for a period not exceeding one year, the Special account
will be managed by the DDI while capacity of the program financial management unit is being strengthened
to fully understand the Bank procedures before taking over. Accordingly, during the first program year, the
Financial Controller will prepare all supporting documents for transmission to the DDI to effect payments.
The FC will also be responsible for the preparation of withdrawal applications or DRFs under the
supervision of the DDI. In the following years, the DDI will set up a sub-account to be directly managed by
the FC. The sub- account will be replenished periodically upon request from the FC. The FC will pay
initial advances, in conformity with the proposed annual work plan and budget, to the NGOs and other
implementors and sector Ministries (Lettres d'Execution).
The Program account will be managed by the FC upon Credit effectiveness. The Program account will
receive counterpart funds based on the annual Government budget and in compliance with the terms of the
DCA.
During the first phase of the program, financial management function will not be decentralized at the
regional level or the Bureaux Executifs Regionaux (BERs). The financial management functions of the
BERs will consist of a petty cash system not to exceed US$100 operating on an imprest basis. The petty
cash will be replenished upon request and presentation of all the supporting documents and a simple
columnar financial report. The FC will audit the management of the petty cash at least twice annually.
4.5. Audit arrangements
To obtain reasonable assurance that funds are used efficiently and for the intended purpose, the following
audit arrangements will be put in place. The project accounts and financial statements (for all components)
will be audited in accordance with international audit standards by independent and experienced auditors
under terms of reference that have been approved by IDA. The auditors will provide opinions on the
project financial statements, the special account, the project account and statements of expenditures. The
auditors will also be required to carry out a comprehensive review of the internal control procedures and
- 14 -



provide a management report outlining any recommendations for improvement. The auditors report will be
submitted to IDA not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Rather than waiting for poverty alleviation strategies or economic growth to improve nutrition, the
Government has decided to move forward with a medium-term program. A no-program altemative was
consequently not considered seriously by either Govermment or IDA at any stage of the process.
Once it was decided to take action, nutrition officials considered including nutrition actions in other
projects. The NEP does complement other ongoing projects, such as the Social Development Fund and the
Integrated Health Sector Development (PDIS) projects. Nutrition interventions refer to an integrated
package of activities cutting across sectors, involving both directed public interventions and community
initiatives. No other operation held the promise both of national coordination of nutrition policy and of
comprehensiveness in implementation.
The approach taken in the earlier Community Nutrition project could have given rise to a follow-on project.
The altemative of a second nutrition project was rejected for several reasons. First, the interventions
proved to be insufficiently sustainable. Second, the Government policy called for extension of nutrition
activities into rural areas for which the framework of the earlier project was not suited. Most importantly,
however, the experience of the first project improved awareness of the sustained time and effort needed to
achieve meaningful nutrition results in both urban and rural areas. A program approach, with integrated
high level management, was therefore more suitable.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Health                            Cr. 2985-SE: Integrated Health   U              S
Sector Development Program
(Closes June 30, 2003)
Cr. 2951: Endemic Diseases       U              S
(Closes December 31, 2002)
Social Protection                 Cr. 3446-SE: Social               S             S
Development Fund Program
(Closes Dec. 31, 2004)
Education                         Cr. 3333-SE, Quality Education    U             S
(Closes Dec. 31, 2003)
Cr.2873-SE, Pilot Female          S             S
Literacy Project
(Closes Feb. 28, 2003)
Water                             Cr.2758-SE, Water Sector          S            HS
- 15-



Project (Closes Dec. 31, 2003)
Cr.3470-SE, Long Term Water     S            S
Sector (Closes December 31,
2007)
Agriculture/Rural Development    Cr.3219-SE,Agriculture           S            S
Services and Producer
Organizations (Closes June 30,
2003)
Cr.3315-SE, National Rural       S            S
Infrastructure Program (Closes
December 30, 2005)
HIV/AIDS                         Cr.3601-SE, Prevention and       S            S
Control Project
(Closes September 30, 2007)
Decentralization                 Urban Development and            S            S
Decentralization Program
(Closes June 30, 2003)
Other development agencies
UNICEF                           Support to national nutrition
strategy implementation, salt
iodization, and IMCI activities
USAID/BASICS                     Support to IMCI and
Community IMCI-programs
WFP                              Food-aid and technical
assistance support
KFW                              Water and sanitation
interventions
WHO                              Support to IMCI training
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The earlier project, although largely a response to an emergency situation, provided several important
lessons that have been taken into account in the design of the NEP. Other nutrition programs in Senegal
have also yielded valuable information as have international experiences.
Lessons of experience defined in the ICR (no. 21429, January 5, 2001) of the earlier project, and applied in
the design of the NEP, include the following:
1. Roles and responsibilities of the coordinating body, the policy-making entity, and the executing agency
should be clearly defined at the beginning of the project. Moreover, such bodies need budgets and other
support to do their work. During preparation of the NEP, much attention was devoted to establishing
permanent coordination structures with systematic information exchange. The NEP-design strengthens
implementation capacity at both national and local levels, through budget allocations, monitoring and skills
training.
- 16 -



2. To be effective, nutrition interventions do not have to be managed by a line ministry. The Government
has already put in place a coordination body with explicit cross-ministry responsibilities.
Community-based nutrition interventioiis will continue to be done by contracting NGOs and other local
organizations.
3. Once families realize the benefits of direct interventions for growth promotion, they take the initiative to
generate other development activities that also contribute to nutrition outcomes. The NEP will introduce
support for such activities.
4. Stimulating competition among executing agencies can be an essential ingredient in cost-effectiveness.
By introducing a competitive bidding process among NGOs, the NEP will ensure that the NGOs proposals
retained are cost-effective, take full account of objective conditions in the locality, and bring to bear already
existing local capacity.
Lessons from the National Growth Promotion Program (PAIN) include:
1. The PAIN, implemented by the SNAN, has been successfully piloting the use of unpaid nutrition
volunteers. Positive results have been obtained on the whole. However, the lack of any form of incentives
or recognition eroded the motivation of the volunteers. In the NEP implementation framework nutrition
aides will receive modest bonuses and other incentives, and the actual time they spend on nutrition will be
held to a minimum.
2. The PAIN has demonstrated positive results on nutrition outcomes without the use of food supplements.
The NEP reflects this result by not introducing food supplements in rural areas. However, in the urban
areas, the NEP will include food supplementation for malnourished children under three, pregnant and
lactating women for the first two years of phase I. These actions, to be financed by the World Food
Programme, will facilitate the introduction of food hygiene and better nutrition practices.  Food
supplements will be provided to the beneficiaries for a limited time (four months) and the program as a
whole will be phased out in two years.
Lessons from intemational experiences include:
Studies have identified the following critical elements in successful project design: community
participation; program flexibility; institutional capacity; financial contribution by the community;
multifaceted program activities; and training. All these critical elements are reflected in the NEP: (i)
community participation is the comerstone of the program; (ii) communities will contribute in-kind to the
activities; (iii) the NEP is coordinated by a multisectoral body, the CLM; and (iv) significant investments
will be made to train nutrition aides, some NGOs, and public sector staff.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Senegal has shown strong political commitment to addressing nutrition.  It has demonstrated this
commitment by placing all the authority for nutrition policy in the hands of a high level entity (CLM) with
both policy and operational responsibility over line ministries. It is further committed to carrying out
interventions not only in cities and towns. but also simultaneously in rural areas, where capacity is weaker
but nutrition needs are more pressing.
- 17 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The NEP has financial requirements that are beyond the capacity of local resources or those that can be
mobilized through the international donor community at present. The Government has expressed interest in
having IDA continue to play a major role in the strengthening of nutrition capacity and implementation of
nutrition interventions. The Government's strong commitment to investment in the nutrition sector provides
an excellent opportunity for partnership to further improve the nutritional status of young children and
women in Senegal.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis of the ten-year program covers the following: (a) the rationale for public sector
involvement and poverty impact of the program; (b) a cost-effectiveness analysis of program interventions;
and (c) a risk-sensitivity analysis. Further details are presented in Annex 4.
The NEP promotes an intersectoral approach to nutrition through growth monitoring and promotion,
nutrition information, counseling and behavior change programs. These are considered the most effective
core interventions (best buys) needed to target growth faltering, which in Senegal is due to a combination of
diet and disease compounded by inadequate care of young children and women. According to the 1993
World Development Report, nutrition education, micronutrient supplementation, and growth monitoring of
children are among the 10 least expensive child health interventions.
The economic benefits are analyzed mainly in terms of lives saved and adverse events averted. Since other
benefits are not quantified here, this is an underestimation of the actual impact of program interventions.
Based on this analysis, the program is estimated to result in a gain of about 150,288 Discounted Healthy
Life Years (DHLY's), at a cost of US$399 per DHLY gained. Since the per capita GNP of Senegal is
US$510, it is worthwhile to pay US$399 to avoid the loss of a year of healthy life. This cost should be
lower when taking into account increased productivity, reduced costs of health care and opportunity cost
for care-givers, for both mortality and morbidity.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
NA
Fiscal Impact:
The Government will incur limited additional direct public expenditures in support of the program. In
phase I, the Government's financial contribution will amount to an estimated US$ 1.5 million (about 10
percent of total phase I cost). Subsequent phases are expected to reflect a higher percentage contribution
by Government, as its commitment to nutrition strengthens and solidifies. With regard to recurrent costs,
the cost per child participating in the growth promotion programs is expected to decrease as the program
matures.  Moreover, the program will promote a broader sharing of recurrent costs among local
governments and communities as well as the national budget.
- 18 -



3. Technical:
The growth promotion interventions supported by the NEP, which include Integrated Management of
Childhood Illnesses (IMCI), are gaining worldwide recognition for effectiveness in achieving nutrition
outcomes. Two salient features of this package are its breath (starting with pregnant women and
continuing through birth and early childhood), and its depth (including follow up home visits, intensive
inter-personal counseling and referrals to health professionals).
Accompanying the package is a series of supporting activities. First and foremost, nutrition aides will
work with communities and health officials on a strategy for counseling of and negotiating with mothers on
feasible caring and feeding practices. The NEP will rely on the National Nutrition Service (DNAN),
supported by other donors, to develop key messages as well as communication and counseling guidelines
and materials. Nutrition aides and NGOs will deliver the messages in ways appropriate to local
circumstances and tailored to the child's caregiver. Behavior changes among mothers and caregivers will
take place gradually, through regular individual counseling. Group sessions will reinforce messages and
provide channels for feedback to the community. Specialists will give guidance in communications
strategies and results, especially during the first year of the NEP.
Secondly, the NEP provides the means to deliver preventive messages about child health to communities
not presently served in this manner by health facilities. Mothers and caregivers will be trained to take
adequate care of sick children, recognize danger signs, and seek timely help when symptoms are present.
Sick children will be referred to health professionals for treatment.
Third, vitamin A will be provided to the beneficiaries, in accordance with guidelines prepared by DNAN.
In addition, the NEP will promote iron/folate supplementation, the consumption of iodized salt and make
efforts to facilitate the access of local consumers to iodized salt. A study on feasible ways of fortifying a
staple food with iron, which is one of the most effective interventions to reduce iron-deficiency anemia, will
be introduced. Similarly, systematic promotion of deworming, anti-malarial prophylaxis for first and
second time pregnancies, and the use of impregnated bednets to protect against malaria, will be carried out
at the community level by the nutrition aides. The health system ensures adequate supply and distribution
of micronutrients, essential drugs and other. However, the NEP will provide the initial supply of those in
the sites.
Finally, once the growth promotion program is fully functional, discussion of child growth results in
community meetings are expected to lead to proposals for other community development activities related
to nutrition. The NEP will be ready to support such activities with advice, training and small grant funds.
4. Institutional:
The CLM was established by Decree in October 2001 and comprises representatives of all key ministries
involved in nutrition as well as representatives of NGOs and civil society. In terms of staffing and
organization, the CLM and its executive bureau (BEN) are off to a good start. CLM has met at least twice
since its inception, has actively promoted information exchange, and has made decisions on such matters as
the financing of urban nutrition centers. The executive bureau has quickly assembled a competent team,
that has made considerable progress in readiness for implementation.
The DNAN, under the Ministry of Health and Prevention, is responsible for technical aspects of nutrition.
DNAN's technical staff of a dozen specialists are poorly equipped at present. They do give some
assistance to regional health staff, however, and this network will be strengthened under the NEP.
- 19-



NGOs have a clear comparative advantage in social and community mobilization and access to target
groups, important to nutrition. NGOs in the health sector are large in number and generally well organized,
but their management and planning capacity varies widely. A key aspect of their contribution to the NEP
will be familiarity with local conditions and support to nutrition aides based on needs and capacity. The
ability of NGOs to provide appropriate support to local nutrition aides and support to local health posts, is
a critical factor in their performance under phase I. In turn the NEP will strengthen the capacity of NGOs
in the management of nutrition interventions. The existing urban centers may be used for the nutrition
activities, if so proposed by the NGOs (see Annex 13).
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executive bureau (BEN) of the CLM is responsible for the daily management of the NEP interventions.
Local nutrition aides will carry out the nutrition interventions at the community level, under the supervision
of the health posts. NGOs will train and support the nutrition aides and health posts.
4.2 Project management:
During phase I of the NEP, the management arrangements will be strengthened to improve effectiveness
and efficiency. There will be an opportunity to test the information reporting systems operated by those
entities with delegated authority to carry out interventions; determine the strengths of the system for
approval of contracts; evaluate the selection process for new implementation mechanisms and delivery
channels to be tested and if results are translated into new courses of action; and determine the extent to
which the CLM and DNAN can identify, develop and modify nutrition policies appropriate to changing
Senegalese needs and circumstances. During Phase I of the APL a working group will be established by
the CLM to assess such issues in-depth, and provide recommendations to the CLM before commencement
of phase II. Independent assessments of program management will also be conducted.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Experience with the procurement carried out by AGETIP over the last five years in the earlier Community
Nutrition Project provides many lessons leamed which are taken into account in the NEP. For example the
need to package many small and frequent IEC and training contracts into one contract, especially where it
concems the same consulting firm. Since the focus is on the rural areas and working with NGOs, the
Bank's simplified procurement guidelines will be applied for the small community-based contracts.
Procurement capacity will now be built in the BEN of the NEP directly to ensure leaming and
sustainability of the NEP during and after the APL.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management capacity will be built in the executive bureau of the CLM directly to ensure
leaming, coordination and sustainability of the NEP during and after the APL. The ministries will not
directly manage financial funds, they will work according to agreed upon lettre d'execution and annual
plans. A financial management assessment was carried out during appraisal by an IDA credited financial
management specialist and an action plan agreed upon with the Borrower to build the financial
management capacity in the BEN (details in Annex 6).
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
NA
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
- 20 -



NA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Community participation is key in the NEP, as it is in any nutrition program. Village communities will
increase their awareness of malnutrition and develop activities to address its determinants in their own
community. The participatory approach, successfully used in the CNP, will be retained to empower the
beneficiaries as primary actors in the program. By targeting the areas with highest malnutrition rates, the
program reaches the poor.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
NGOs, civil society, other donors, the private sector, as well as relevant sector ministries are all
represented in the CLM who meets on a regular basis. In order to promote and intensify this coordination,
emphasis in the capacity building component will be given to stakeholder building, strengthening
interorganizational relations, and more use of interactive and participative workshops. The ultimate goal it
to develop cohesion among the partners involved in the NEP and institutionalize a stakeholder coalition to
support the program at all levels.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society and NGOs representatives are permanent members of the CLM. Through their regular
meetings and as the implementers of various interventions knowledge will be shared with communities and
program staff.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
An institutional capacity assessment of all levels was conducted at pre-appraisal (report in project files). A
program to strengthen the capacity at all levels will be one of the pillars of phase I of the NEP. A first start
will be made with the strengthening of the capacity of the CLM, the BEN, DNAN and its direct
implementing partners in Phase I.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in terms of social development outcomes?
National nutrition, micronutrient and behavior surveys, including breakdown by quintiles, will be
conducted and used to provide feed back to all partners at all levels.
-21 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
NA
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The NEP builds on the lessons learned from the earlier Community Nutrition Project, the Bamako Initiative
and other project experiences. The earlier project demonstrated potential for local contribution to the
nutrition centers and nutrition interventions in the urban areas. For example, a share of the revenue from
the water-stands was allocated for the operating cost of the nutrition center. The NEP will continue to
empower and provide means to communities to deal with malnutrition. A clear focus during phase I of the
program is on the cost-effectiveness. The design includes much attention to monitoring costs per
interventions and starts from a basis of standard costs per child and reduction of those costs over the life of
the program. It is however expected, as international experience teaches, that limited support from
Government remains necessary to maintain the growth promotion program. The NEP will further promote
long term sustainability by: enhancing Govenmment capacity to develop and promote nutrition policies and
coordinate nutrition interventions; emphasizing positive changes in caring practices related to the
preparation of food, hygiene, and feeding at the household level; and relying on and supporting NGOs,
community-based organizations and private sector to assist in the execution of the interventions. The
gradual assumption by Govenmment of a larger portion of the costs of the community-based nutrition and
growth promotion interventions, currently mainly supported by extemal donors, is foreseen, starting in
phase I, but increasingly during the second and third phases.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Urban nutrition sites are reluctant to     M         Re-training and awareness creation for urban
change nutrition approach and community              centers former implementers. Cost reduction
mobilization is not adequate.                        study with input from former implementers.
US$ 200,000 fund for re-orientation of former
implementers.
- 22 -



Implementation capacity among NGOs in       S         During phase I of the NEP the focus will be on
targeted areas is inadequate.                         building further capacity of NGOs. In addition,
the bidding process is open also to private sector
and other implementers to ensure interventions
will be carried out.
The number of local trainers is             M        An extensive training of trainers program is
insufficient to meet needs.                          foreseen.
Competition for funds between NGOs and      N        Promotion of regional consultative bodies
local government debilitates collaboration.          between NGOs and local government.
DNAN institutional and organizational       M        MOHP is a key-player in the CLM and will be
capacity building is not sufficiently                held accountable for the health sector related
supported by MOH.                                    interventions.
District level health centers do not have   M        The program will ensure that timely action
sufficient capacity to manage severely               geared towards behavior changes at the
malnourished children.                                household level will prevent severe forms of
malnutrition. Training in management of
severely malnourished children and provision of
means to district health centers is foreseen under
the program.
CLM does not have sufficient leverage       S         Sector ministries representatives will be held
over responsible departments to assure               accountable for the execution of the Lettre
compliance with lettre d'Execution                   d'Execution. Intersectoral networking to create
Sector ministries are committed to                   ownership in CLM is foreseen in the Program.
improve nutrition.
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient number of implementers         S        The program will contract NGOs, CBOs and
available in target areas.                           private sector. Expressions of interest are
prepared early on to ensure early capacity
building and mobilization.
Monitoring system is not performing (data   M        Capacity building for M&E is foreseen, as well
is not collected on time nor effectively             as provision of means.
analyzed).
BEN, CLM and partners have limited          M        Technical capacity building is included in the
management and coordination capacity.                 overall capacity building program. Regular
performance evaluations will be conducted.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
During the preparation of the project, it was found that DNAN, BASICS, the NGO 'Action-Development',
District Health Officers, DNEPS and other actors have all felt frustrated about the CNP's food distribution
and the high payments of implementers. This has discouraged other community activities, which were
based on local means of remunerating community workers, so that the community workers' motivation and
- 23 -



voluntaristic spirit has been seriously undermined. Also, the almost free distribution of food has raised
expectations of beneficiaries and devalued other projects that "only" delivered IEC messages. It is crucial
for the NEP to take these issues into.account in order to be sustainable in the long term as well as in order
to not affect negatively other programs. Remuneration of community workers must therefore be in line
with local practices and involve the community's financial and in-kind contribution either directly or
through local government.  Local studies are necessary to determine people's ability to pay for
interventions and food. Such studies will adopt a comprehensive approach that integrates men in the
program and that eventually builds upon their financial contribution as well. At the same time, voluntarism
will be promoted and boosted through locally identified practices and performance-based bonuses.
Obviously, finding the right level of remuneration is a difficult task and often a trade-off between rather
quick and effective program implementation and slower, but more sustainable implementation.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
- Procedures Manual and Implementation Manual for the first year of the project, acceptable to IDA;
- Lettre d'Execution from Ministry of Health and Prevention approved by CLM, acceptable to IDA;
- Establishment of a Financial Management System and Production of an Accounting and Financial
Manual of Procedures, acceptable to IDA;
- Recruitment of external auditors acceptable to IDA; and
- Project Account opened and counterpart funds deposited;
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
I 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
2 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Claudia Ro                       Alexandre V. Abrantes             John McIntire
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Key Performance -    Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators       ______________________   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Contribute to the reduction  Reduction ini prevalence of Poverty Reduction reports;
of poverty by investing in  poverty.            National surveys, including
human development:                              household and Demographic
improve nutritional status of Reduced chronic   and Health Surveys
women and children.     malnutrition among children
under five.
Program Purpose:        End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:    (from Purpose to Goal)
The broad purpose of the  0 Underweight (Weight  National anthropometric  Continued stable economic
Nutrition Enhancement      for age W/A<-2 s.d.)  surveys                growth, political stability,
Program is to assist Senegal  among children under  (MICS II, 2000 is baseline). and broad-based social
in attaining the first of the  three reduced by 40                      development to provide the
Millennium Development     percent at the national  Micronutrient surveys  enabling environment for
Goals - eradication of     level;              (A micronutrient prevalence improvement of nutrition
extreme poverty and hunger  0 Severe underweight  study will be conducted  status.
- by supporting Senegal's  (W/A<-3 s.d.) reduced  during Phase I of the APL
Nutrition Policy -Lettre de  to less than one percent and will provide baseline  Other key-determinants of
Politique de               nationwide;          data.)                  nutritional status do not
Developpement de la      0 Virtual elimination of                       deteriorate (i.e. poverty,
Nutrition which aims to    Vitamin A Deficiency; Awareness and beneficiary  food-security)
improve the nutritional  * At least 80 percent of  assessments and project
status of vulnerable groups,  rural communities are  data on use of funds to  Adequate capacity to carry
i.e., children and pregnant  aware that malnutrition address malnutrition  out nutrition interventions.
and lactating women.       is a development     determinants
problem and know of                         Civil society, NGOs,
actions to address the  Demographic Health  donors, the private sector
determinants of      Surveys                and central and local levels
malnutrition; and                           of government work
* the decline in under-five                    effectively together.
mortality has
accelerated, due in part
to the Program.
Project Development     Outcome / Impact        Project reports:       (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:              Indicators:
Phase I extends nutrition  (i) the prevalence of severe  Performance assessments,  CLM has sufficient leverage
and growth promotion    underweight is reduced by  project data and small scale over responsible
interventions into rural  half in the targeted areas;  impact surveys.  departments to assure
areas; aims to consolidate  (ii) the prevalence of                      compliance with lettre
- 25 -



and sustain the results  underweight among children Beneficiary Assessments.  d'Execution
gained with the earlier  under three is reduced by 25                      Sector ministries are
project; and builds further  percent in targeted areas;  Cost-efficiency study.  committed to improve
the institutional and    (iii) the proportion of                           nutrition.
organizational capacity  children exclusively     DHS and MICS follow up
required to enable the CLM  breast-fed until 6 months  study
and its partners in the  has increased from eight
public and private sector to  percent to 15 percent in the
develop, implement and   targeted areas;
monitor multisectoral    (iv) the use of prenatal care
nutrition activities.    (at least three visits) has
increased by 30 percent;
(v) and the proportion of
caregivers who recognize at
least two danger signs in
sick children has increased
by 25 percent in targeted
areas.
Phase II would be         (i) program coverage has  Performance assessments,
dedicated to scaling up  increased to 60 percent in  project data, and impact
interventions and refining  seven of the 10 regions;  surveys.
implementation capacity, so (ii) the prevalence of severe
as to reach about 60 percent underweight is reduced to  DHS and MICS follow up
of the target population in  less than one percent in the  study
seven of the 10 regions.  targeted areas;
(iii) the prevalence of
underweight among children
under three is reduced by 25
percent in the seven regions;
(iv) the proportion of
exclusively breast-fed
children increases to 45
percent in the first three
regions and increased to 15
percent in the additional
four regions; (v) the use of
prenatal care has increased
by 30% in all targeted
regions; and
(vi) local authorities are
working cooperatively to
take over and manage basic
nutrition interventions.
Phase III would extend the  (i) program coverage has  Performance assessments,
coverage nationwide. At  extended to all regions;  project data and impact
the end of the Program,  (ii) the performance     surveys.
Senegal would have in place indicators of the ten-year
an effective nutrition system program are achieved;
- 26 -



capable of providing    (iii) local authorities have  Beneficiary Assessments
nutrition services       taken over and are
cost-effectively, adjusting to managing basic nutrition  DHS and MICS follow up
local needs, and working  services cost-effectively;  study
cooperatively with      and          . I
communities and local   (iv) the Lettre de Politique
government.             de Developpement de la
Nutrition has been
evaluated and updated as
necessary.
-27 -



Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives  .    Indicators                                 Critical Assumptions
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Phase I:
1. Community Based
Nutrition and Growth
Promotion Program:
1.1. Growth Monitoring and 170,000 children < 3 are  Program progress reports  Urban nutrition centers are
Promotion               regularly monitored and  and monitoring data. NGO  willing to change nutrition
their caretakers counseled;  beneficiary assessments.  approach.
1.2 Nutrition and Health  Monthly nutrition and  Program progress reports  Community Nutrition Aides
Group Education         health education sessions  and monitoring data. NGO  provide data as required.
are held in 80 percent of  beneficiary assessments.
established sites;
1.3 Integrated Management At least 40% of health staff Program progress reports  Effective collaboration
of Childhood Diseases   in targeted areas trained in  and monitoring data  between NEP and health
(IMCI)                  IMCI. Training sessions                         sector
held for nutrition aides in at
least 25% of sites.
1.4 Basic Health Services  At least 40% of health staff Program progress reports  Effective collaboration
in targeted areas trained in  and monitoring data  between NEP and health
promotion of basic health                       sector
services. Training sessions
held for nutrition aides in at
least 25% of sites.
1.5. Fighting the Roots of
Malnutrition            At least 40 percent of sites  Program Reports
have successfully applied                       Adequate facilitation from
for small grants                                NGOs to develop proposals.
2. Capacity Building and
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.1. Institutional and  - Comprehensive Growth  Project supervision and  Minimum implementation
Organizational Capacity  Monitoring and Promotion  activity reports;    capacity among NGOs
Building                (GMP) strategy and                              exists.
materials developed;    Health Management
- Nutrition aides and NGOs Information System (HMIS) A sufficient number of local
trained;                activity reports;       trainers is available.
- 820 nutrition sites are
functional (80% community and consultant reports.  Competition between local
coverage);                                      government and NGOs does
- 28 -



- at least 50 percent of                        not impede collaboration.
health posts is adequately
equipped to manage                              Health services institutional
severely malnourished                           and organizational capacity
children.                                       building is supported by
MOH.
2.2. Monitoring and     - learning events held in 50
Evaluation and Research  percent of the sites;
- studies conducted and
recommendations integrated
into phase II workplan.
3. Program Management   - Staff in place and trained; BEN and BER performance CLM intersectoral
3.1. Central management  - Management cost less than evaluations, financial  coordination is effective and
3.2. Regional management  15 percent of total budget. reports and audits.  sector ministries are
-At least 80 percent of                         committed to improve
activities in annual plan                       nutrition through sectoral
completed within                                activities.
cost-estimates.
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
Phase I:
1. Community Based      US$ 7.7 million         M&E and project         Sufficient number of
Nutrition and Growth                            reportsand sector ministries capable implementers are
Promotion Program                               and project reports     available in the targeted
regions.
2. Capacity Building and
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.1 Institutional and   US$ 4.5 million         Performance evaluations,  Stakeholders are committed
Organizational                                  financial and technical  to building an intersectoral
audits. Project financial and network to improve
inventory reports       nutrition.
2.2. Monitoring and     US$ 1.5 million         monitoring and evaluation
Evaluation and Research                         reports and study reports,
survey results and
consultant reports.
3. Program Management   US$ 2.5 million         Project reports         BEN, CLM and partners
have adequate management
and coordination capacity.
- 29 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Objectives of the Program
The development objective of the Nutrition Enhancement Program (NEP) is to improve the growth of
children under 3 in poor rural and urban areas. The project will also help to build the institutional and
organizational capacity to carry out and evaluate nutrition interventions.
The ten-year program aims at achieving this objective by (i) substantially increasing adequate weight gain
and reducing micronutrient deficiencies in vulnerable groups i.e. children under three and pregnant and
lactating women in poor urban and rural areas, through Growth Monitoring and Promotion (GMP,
promotion being counseling, information, education and behavior change interventions) and micronutrient
supplementation programs; (ii) improving key-family practices identified under the Integrated Management
of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) at the community level; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of communities
to assess the local nutrition situation and develop actions plans to address underlying factors.
Phasing and targeting of the program
Phase I of the NEP is a preparatory phase that extends nutrition and growth promotion interventions into
rural areas. In addition, Phase I aims to consolidate and sustain the results gained with the earlier project,
which contributed to reversing the negative trend in nutritional status among children under three in the
urban areas. It will further build the institutional and organizational capacity required to enable the Cellule
de Lutte contre la Malnutrition (CLM) and its partners in the public and private sector to develop,
implement and monitor multisectoral nutrition activities in both rural and urban areas. Although the earlier
World Bank-supported Community Nutrition Project made an good start with addressing nutrition
problems, it was limited to the urban areas and applied a not sustainable emergency-type approach to
malnutrition.  The NEP will focus on extending nutrition interventions in the rural areas, where
malnutrition rates are highest. The ongoing nutrition interventions established under the Community
Nutrition Project will be transformed into longer-term preventive nutrition interventions. Leaming by doing
will be applied through the acquisition and evaluation of experiences on the ground with delivery of
nutrition services by NGOs and other local organizations. By the end of phase I, the NEP aims to have
reached 35 percent of the targeted population in the rural areas and 50 percent in the urban areas.
Phase II would be dedicated to scaling up interventions and refining implementation capacity, to reach
about 60 percent of the target population in seven of the 10 regions.
Phase HI would extend the coverage nationwide. At the end of the Program, Senegal would have in place
an effective nutrition system capable of providing nutrition services cost-effectively, adjusting to local
needs, and working cooperatively with communities and local government.
The duration of each phase is indicative, as is the achievement of defined targets which will trigger the
subsequent phase. IDA support is sought for a share of the Nutrition Program outlined in the Lettre de
Politique de Developpement de la Nutrition. Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, World Food Program,
USAID/BASICS, and other donors will provide additional support.
On the basis of results coming from the growth promotion and IMCI program, a community plan of action
for nutrition and its underlying determinants will be developed through a participatory process in which the
communities assess the situation and prioritize the problems related to child growth. All resulting action
- 30 -



plans addressing underlying nutrition problems will be closely coordinated with ongoing projects and
programs in Senegal, such as the SDF, PDIS and others. What follows in this annex is a consensus result
of group work with the various counterparts and stakeholders.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$7.70 million
1. Community Based Nutrition and Growth Promotion Program
The Community-based Nutrition and IMCI program consists of five sub-components: (I) Growth
Monitoring and Promotion; (2) Nutrition and Health Education; (3) the Integrated Management of
Childhood Illnesses at Community level (IMCI); (4) Promotion of Basic Health Services; and (5) Fighting
the Roots of Malnutrition. These sub-components do not refer to separate sets of activities, but rather to a
gradual expansion of integral nutrition-relevant community activities.
1.1.   Growth Monitoring and Promotion
The main focus of the Nutrition Enhancement Program is on the promotion of adequate child growth to
prevent malnutrition through a package of community-based interventions starting with pregnant women.
This includes the promotion of prenatal care as well as appropriate information on adequate weight gain
and iron/folic acid supplementation to prevent low birth weight and correct breast-feeding practices.
Following birth, nutrition aides together with the caretakers will monitor the growth of newboms on a
monthly basis until the age of 36 months.
The monthly weighing results are the entry point of discussion on children's growth during which nutrition
aides counsel caregivers on what decisions to make regarding child care and feeding practices. Therefore,
the nutrition aide together with the caregiver record the weight on a growth chart to jointly evaluate child's
weight gain by making the comparison with past weights and the growth curve of a reference population.
The nature of counseling is determined by the adequacy of children's growth, children's age, health status,
season, caregivers' conditions and willingness to try different feeding and caring practices. The essence of
growth promotion is to give caregivers a role in decision making for action to improve child feeding
practices. This refers to a negotiation process because it involves arriving at a mutually agreeable solution
between mother and nutrition aid on what action can be taken that will be feasible for the caregiver and that
the nutrition aide considers important for child growth. Moreover, an important aspect of this approach is
that counseling is done on an individual and confidential basis.
Children who fail to participate in the last growth promotion session will be visited at home, where they
then will be weighed and counseled. Those children whose growth falters will also be visited at home for
more intensive counseling and review of home situation. At a later stage of program implementation, home
visits will be included for pregnant women to counsel them on good practices during pregnancy, including
the use of iron/folate supplements and subsequent lactation.
1.2    Nutrition and Health Group Education
Monthly group education sessions on different themes will be conducted to discuss common problems
related to pregnancy and child growth. These themes and messages will be identified and developed
following characteristics and problems of the locality. The communication method will be participative,
like focus group discussions, in which nutrition aides are expected to act as facilitators.
- 31 -



1.3    Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI)
Common themes in IMCI promotion are nutritional care for or case management of sick children (increased
liquid intake, continued feeding during illness, continued breast-feeding) and recognition of danger signs
requiring medical attention. Other themes include oral rehydration therapy, vaccination, personal and
environmental hygiene, impregnated bednets to protect against malaria, home case management of fever,
and vitamin A supplementation. Nutrition aides will be trained to promote good practices for prevention
and case management. In case of severe malnutrition, case management will be assured by the health post
according to national guidelines to be developed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention (MHP).
However, this form of malnutrition is expected to become a problem of the past as a result of early
intervention.
1.4    Basic Health Services
A number of universal health problems, which directly influence child growth, will be dealt with at the
community level. Children aged six months to five years will receive twice yearly vitamin A supplements,
which will be recorded on the growth chart. In addition, women who deliver at home will receive a vitamin
A supplement within six weeks after delivery. Where applicable, nutrition aides also promote the use of
prenatal health services at the health facility. Specific emphasis will be given to proper counseling on the
use of iron/folate supplements and its possible side effects as well as anti-malarials for women who are
pregnant for the first or second time. In an effort to address the severe public health problem of anemia in
children, a protocol for community-based iron supplementation of children will be developed and piloted.
Iron deficiency is a major but not the only cause of anemia. Other causes include parasitical infections,
e.g., malaria, hookworm and schistosomiasis. To enhance the synergy of different interventions, nutrition
aides will integrate the promotion of systematic deworming with that of iron supplementation. Similarly,
nutrition aides will be involved in the promotion of the locally available impregnated bednets as well as
local re-impregnation of bednets to prevent malaria. All the above services will be made available locally,
at subsidized prices.
1.5    Fighting the Roots of Malnutrition
The main objective of this sub-component is to address underlying determinants of growth failure and
malnutrition. Nutrition is multidimensional and there are multiple factors that influence the growth of
children. Hence, child growth and nutritional status can be seen as an outcome of the level of community
development. The growth monitoring program provides valuable information on child growth. Once
program interventions are well established, nutrition aides and their supervisors will guide local commnittees
to use this infornation to analyze and prioritize problems, and subsequently identify appropriate solutions.
They will then draw up proposals for financing, either by other ongoing projects such as the Social
Development and the Early Child Development funds, or through a 'last resort' fund of a maximum of
US$500, provided by the program. The latter should clearly describe the link to nutritional problems as
well as target groups and expected outcomes.
- 32 -



1.6 Institutional Arrangements
1.6.1 Framework
Nutrition Enhancement  Ministry of Health
Program          and Prevention and  Local Govemment
other Ministries
-           | ((/ Cellule de lutte contre la
a       l    m~~~~~~ralnutritton )>  
Central                                   Preveetean
* tHBureau             eat    t                           Local
Regionalzs       j 
t   OrRanization             NtriVllgen Committee
Com- 
munity',\fn= = __
*   Women/Household
- 33 -



The diagram above shows the roles and responsibilities at each level of activity, including the local
government and community structures. See sections on collaboration and learning by doing (in monitoring
and evaluation annex 12) for coordination between the NEP, Health system and local governance
structures.
Within the NEP and health system only, structures include:
*      Village, household and nutrition aides (two nutrition aides per 180 households, covering about 100
children under three)
*      Health posts and Supervisors (one supervisor per 20 nutrition aides, per 10 community-sites)
*      District health structures and NGOs
*      Regional Executive Bureaux (BERs) and Regional health structures
*      National Executive Bureau (BEN) and Ministry of Health and Prevention
1.6.2 Roles and Responsibilities
Details of roles and responsibilities including summary Terms of Reference are included in the Operations
Manual of the Project.
Nutrition aides: The nutrition aide provides information and counseling services to the mother or
alternative caregiver who is the person responsible for the child at the household level. Two animators per
site are chosen by the community and act on a primarily volunteer basis with some incentives such as
continuous training, performance-based bonuses, and community contributions in kind. The nutrition
aide's responsibilities include: (i) mobilizing target group to plan and carry out the growth promotion
activities; (ii) facilitating learning-by-doing sessions where results are shared and discussed with
community structures; and (iii) preparing reports for monitoring, evaluation and supervision purposes.
Health posts: These posts fall within the Ministry of Health and Prevention structures and are the first
level where NEP activities are integrated into the health system. They are therefore key to sustainability.
In addition to the role of the health post in providing primary health care services, such as immunization
and ante-natal care, the post will also collaborate on: (i) the identification of sites under the program; (ii)
the training and supervision of the nutrition aides; (iii) the monitoring of national health norms; and (iv) the
regular exchange of information with the nutrition aides as well as local governance structures. Depending
on the capacity needs in the health post, NGOs can contract supervisors to ensure coverage of nutrition
interventions. The supervisors are based in the health posts and their responsibilities include: (i) providing
additional capacity in the monitoring and evaluation, supervision and training of nutrition aides; (ii)
supporting the development and implementation of the social mobilization strategy for which the NGOs are
responsible; and (iii) facilitating the selection of nutrition aides, village meetings, and the dissemination and
discussion of child growth results.
NGOs (including private sector agencies. associations and other eligible service providers): NGOs have
two main roles. First, to support the NEP in the execution of community-based activities, and second, to
ensure the progressive integration of the nutrition and growth promotion activities into the health system.
To achieve this, their responsibilities include working together with the local health post to: (i) conduct
advocacy and social mobilization of targeted communities; (ii) map and identify target sites; (iii) support
the selection process of the nutrition aides as well as their training, monitoring, evaluation and supervision;
and (iv) ensure the availability of materials and services from the NEP to communities (e.g. scales, growth
monitoring charts etc.). The NGO selection process and criteria are set out in 1.7.4.
- 34 -



Regional Executive Bureau (BER): The BERs are the branches of the National Executive Bureau (BEN),
responsible for executing the NEP at the regional level. In phase I, their responsibilities include: (i)
participation in the annual planning process of the NEP in their capacity as members of the BEN; (ii)
mapping the region and its stakeholders and identifying and mobilizing potential implementing agencies i.e.
NGOs; (iii) coordinating and developing the regional plan in consultation with other stakeholders including
NGOs and regional government structures; (iv) ensuring implementation of the NEP at the regional level in
coordination with other stakeholders; (v) participating in the selection process for the NGOs together with
other members of the BEN; (vi) facilitating learning-by-doing sessions where results are shared and
discussed with regional structures; (vi) ensuring the monitoring and evaluation of the NEP at regional level.
National Executive Bureau (BEN): The BEN is responsible for the overall management and execution of
the NEP. It reports to the CLM and acts as the Secretariat of the CLM. Its responsibilities include: (i)
developing the annual action plans and budget; (ii) ensuring the administrative and financial management of
the NEP including reporting to CLM; (iii) developing and ensuring collaboration with all partners
(ministries, donors etc.); and (iv) ensuring the operational management of the NEP including the evaluation
of NGO proposals, training, management and supervision of the BERs, monitoring and evaluation
procedures and systems and other aspects of program implementation, including operational research.
CLM: The CLM is the multisectoral structure established by Presidential Decree that is responsible for the
overall policy and strategy of the NEP. It is chaired and directed by the Office of the Prime Minister. Its
roles include: (i) developing the overall policy direction and strategy of the NEP; (ii) ensuring the
multi-sectorality of the NEP; (iii) approving the structure and functioning of the BEN, the annual action
plans and budgets; (iv) coordinating with donors; (v) supervising the BEN through the monitoring and
evaluation Committee of the CLM; (vi) provision of technical advice to the NEP through its Technical
Committee.
1.7 Implementation Arrangements
1.7.1 Planning
The BEN will develop and submit to the CLM a detailed annual action plan and budget for the NEP.
Moreover, the BEN is responsible for the execution of the NEP in collaboration with other stakeholders
such as MOHP, its nutrition division (DNAN) in particular and other public sector bodies, donors and
private sector actors, including NGOs. The planning process will incorporate the plans developed at
community, district and regional level through a participatory processes. Annual plans will also take into
account the lessons learned through independent evaluations and participatory learning-by-doing sessions
conducted throughout the NEP on a scheduled basis as set out in the monitoring and evaluation (Arnex 12).
1.7.2 Training and supervision
A comprehensive training plan will be developed by BEN in close collaboration with DNAN according to
the tasks and skills that are expected from the different levels of implementers. The plan will ensure
continuous training as well as regular initial training of community nutrition workers and supervisors on
the basis of separate training modules. This has the advantage that additional responsibilities can be
phased in more gradually.
The development of the basic training modules will be followed by regional level orientation workshops for
regional and district level workers to become familiar with the details of the program as well as adapt the
- 35 -



modules, where necessary, to local circumstances and behavioral problems. Subsequently, trainers from
relevant public structures, private sector firms and non-governmental partner organizations will be trained
to create adequate local training capacity. These trainers will be responsible for training nutrition aides and
supervisors. Once trained, supervisors should be involved in the training of nutrition aides as to make them
familiar with each other before the work starts. It is essential that supervision is supportive rather than just
corrective given that community workers are in principle volunteers. Supervision will be aided by a
comprehensive monitoring system that provides each supervising level with relevant program
implementation performance information.
1.7.3 Information Education Communication (EEC) and Behavior Change Communication (BCC)
The program is essentially founded on one-on-one counseling for behavior change. Hence, at community
level, monthly growth monitoring of children aged 0-3 years with individual counseling and home visits is
the comerstone of effective communication for behavior change. Counseling messages will be tailored to
the specific child and behavior change related to child care and feeding practices is negotiated with the
child's caregiver. The mother's behavior is not expected to be up to the ideal in one step but will improve
gradually. Moreover, there will be memory aids to help the mother remember the recommended practices
that were agreed upon. This is a departure from reliance on classical group education sessions that so far
has been the most popular behavior change communication strategy. In a way, the balance of power is
shifted to a more equal relationship between nutrition aide and caregiver. However, individual counseling
regarding child care and feeding practices will still be supported by participatory group education in which
key messages will be communication in a thematic manner. In addition, the communication strategy will
include secondary target groups, such as household members to reinforce the communication of key
messages. Needless to say, nutrition aides and supervisors require extensive training on inter-personal
communication skills. Before reaching the operational stage of community-based growth promotion,
extensive advocacy is needed to increase awareness of and demand for community nutrition interventions.
The CLM has a central role in advocating for nutrition to generate political support for the national
nutrition program at the higher levels of decision making.  Key target group members include
parliamentarians, ministry and regional officials, program managers, joumalists, and religious leaders.
Advocacy actions refer to information kits, training of journalists, information days, radio and TV spots,
newspaper articles and national-level workshops. Gradually, advocacy efforts will be taken over by other
organizations and individuals to raise awareness for nutrition at all levels, including that of the region,
district, community and household. Advocacy actions smoothly transform into social mobilization to
establish a solid alliance among stakeholders at all levels and create demand for nutrition services at the
community level. Accordingly, BEN and BERs will mobilize NGOs to submit proposals to implement the
national strategy of community-based growth promotion. NGOs will play a leading role in mobilizing
district health workers for their support and communities for adopting the growth promotion strategy. At
this level, the mobilization will result in a local census to identify the target population, and the selection of
community nutrition workers by women groups. At community level, existing local committees will be
approached to engage in the community nutrition activities, which implies that they assist in monitoring
implementation progress. At the same time, such committees will constitute a voice mechanism for the
beneficiaries as well as for the nutrition aides and link the local community to higher program management
levels.
Accordingly, the IEC/BCC activities of the program can be grouped into three main strategies:
communication for behavior change, social mobilization, and advocacy. A comprehensive communication
strategy based on results from formative research on key behavioral problems, willingness to change and
receptiveness to messages and materials will be developed by the various national counterparts. After
- 36 -



identifying key problems, artists will be mobilized to develop appropriate communication materials
including counseling guides and "mother reminders" to be used during growth monitoring and promotion
sessions and home visits. Other communication materials that will be developed refer to flip charts and
posters for group education, drama scripts for group education as well as social mobilization, and radio
spots for social mobilization and advocacy. Development of communication material will have to take into
account local conditions and customs.
The NEP will support the elevation of existing IEC steering committees into a task force for all IEC
matters on community nutrition and child health to standardize messages and develop uniform materials on
community nutrition and IMCI, and women's development. Accordingly, the task force will become a
resource for the dissemination of materials through training of trainers.
1.7.4 Selection of NGOs
The process of NGO selection will include the following main steps: (i) mobilization of NGOs to
participate as implementers of the NEP, by means of communications strategy at national and regional
level; (ii) development of the terms of reference and its dissemination; (iii) analysis and selection of NGOs
by the BEN (with BERs) according to the criteria set out below; (iv) notification of successful and
unsuccessful NGOs within a prescribed period; (v) contracting with successful candidates to be followed
by training and supervision as per other section of the Annex.
The key criteria for NGO selection and the evidence required are summarized in the table below:
Criteria                                  Evidence
Legal Status                             Registration Document
Relevance of the Proposal                Proposed  Activities fall within the NEP
components
Area of Intervention (At least District level)  Demonstrated  knowledge  of the  relevant
demographics of the district
Expertise in Community Development       Experience  demonstrated  through  annual
reports; recommendations of other partners (eg.
Donors, communities)
Capacity in Financial Management         Financial Management Capacity
Book-keeper
Have previously managed at least $x 000
demonstrated through financial reports
Budget ($/child) within NEP parameters
Capacity for Operations Management       Staff with relevant skills
(Curriculum Vitae of key staff and organization
chart)
Adequate technical knowledge demonstrated in
proposal
1.7.5 Selection of Activities Addressing Underlying Nutrition Problems
Each community under the program will be eligible to apply for up to $500 to implement support activities,
as discussed under 1.5 above, after the growth promotion program is well established. The supervisor will
- 37 -



assist the community in developing the proposal and submitting it to the NGO who in turn will submit it to
the BER for evaluation. The BER will evaluate the proposal according to the following criteria:
(i)   it has been developed by the community in a participatory process
(ii)  it is valid as a means to support improvements in nutrition status in the community
The BEN will be responsible for disbursing the amount requested by the community once a proposal has
been approved. At the same time, capacity will be build, in preparation of phase II, in the BER to directly
manage funds at a later stage (phasell).
Project Component 2 - US$6.00 million
2.1. Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation
Institutional and organizational capacity building is an overarching component that will be started in phase
I of the NEP and continue throughout the three phases. It addresses all actors related to the nutrition
system. Much attention will be given to improve the inter-organizational relationships which posed
problems under the earlier Community Nutrition project. Also, the NEP will reinforce communities'
capacities to effectively voice their views and needs to the local decision-makers to bring nutrition and
related activities on the agenda.
The Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation components consist of 2 sub-components: (i)
Institutional and Organization Capacity Building; and (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation and Research.
1. Institutional and Organizational Capacity Building
1.1. Institutional
Policy and Strategv: The program will support the evolution of the national nutrition policy and strategy as
the program moves through the phases. To do this it will provide support to various organizations
including the CLM to enhance technical and other aspects of the program through involvement of
intemational and local experts, study tours, conferences and workshops. The program also provides
impetus to the national engagement of all stakeholders to solve nutrition problems, through advocacy,
communication and social mobilization.
Norns: Norms will need to be revised and/or developed with the help of intemational and local consultants
and disseminated. These will include technical norms and standards such as the community growth
monitoring procedures and other health interventions, operational norms such as the distribution of
responsibilities between nutrition aides and health posts, and financial norms such as cost per child. These
norms will be used to train all actors with responsibilities for nutrition interventions, particularly nutrition
aides. The system for ensuring these are implemented effectively by nutrition aides has been revised since
the earlier project based on lessons leamed and intemational experience.
The NEP moves into program activities for which technical norms are incomplete and will be completed
where necessary. The Ministry of Health and Prevention (MOHP) will develop and revise norms where
necessary, with particular reference to community-based activities including growth promotion, integrated
management of childhood infections, micronutrient supplementation, and promotion of basic health
services. Currently, promotion of basic health services by trained community workers is taking place for
vitamin A supplementation, family planning, distribution of anti-malarials, and promotion of impregnated
bednets. However, the operational norms on responsibilities of community workers versus health posts
- 38 -



requires to be reviewed in its totality to ensure adequate supervision and service delivery.
Growth charts that are currently used in Senegal emphasize the importance of classifying children by their
nutritional status and providing corrective services accordingly. However, the national growth promotion
strategy emphasizes growth evolution as entry point for communication to promote growth and thereby
prevent growth faltering and malnutrition at community level. Moreover, the focus is on children under
three, pregnant and lactating women.
Targeting the right beneficiaries, high participation levels and high-impact individual counseling sessions
by the nutrition aides will be rewarded through a revised incentive system, including community
recognition, training, sense of belonging, possible contributions in kind and performance-based cash
bonuses. However, ensuring that counseling sessions have been carried out is difficult, since mere reliance
on records is insufficient to check upon performance. If there is a lack of demand on the beneficiaries'
side, they cannot automatically be used as community monitors. Social mobilization is therefore key to
creating the demand for counseling services among beneficiaries. Further, bonuses will be linked to
outcome indicators such as the degree of knowledge internalization by mothers and the proportion of
growing children. In addition, provider competition, performance comparisons and benchmarking among
different provider types (on effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and other outcome criteria) will be used to
boost provider performance. In combination with an effective internal and external monitoring and
information system, support supervision in the field will be institutionalized on a regular basis to
continuously guarantee quality services to the people. From the literature and interviews, it appears that
supervision is considered as a negative process which explains its frequent absence. Training and refresher
courses will therefore address this aspect in order to establish a positive "supervision culture".
Monitoring and Evaluation System: The system of Monitoring and Evaluation will be developed (in further
detail) to ensure that all levels of activity are monitored according to the annual plans and are evaluated to
improve the program in the future. The evaluation component will include a strong emphasis on "learning
by doing" and the active participation of all stakeholders in sharing information on strengths and taking
responsibility for improving weaknesses. This system should provide for greater bottom up accountability,
transparency and learning by doing. (see M&E section below for further details)
Coordination among stakeholders: The institutional arrangements under 1.7.1 demonstrate the involvement
of numerous partner organizations and institutions and therefore highlights the importance of coordination
of activities among partners at same and different levels. From the bottom upward, supervisors
(promoteurs), NGOs, BER, BEN and CLM have specific responsibilities to ensure and mobilize effective
coordination between different partners. Much importance will be given to sharing experiences among
partner organizations to enhance learning by doing as illustrated in Annex 12 on monitoring, evaluation and
learning by doing.
In addition, at community level, existing village committees will be the forum of choice to coordinate the
growth promotion activities with other actions that take place in the community. Community nutrition
workers will plan together with the community her activities to ensure maximum participation. In
communities where there are other community workers with relevant responsibilities, the program
encourages active collaboration by providing training for these workers so that they can be involved in
social mobilization and program implementation.
At regional and national level, BER and BEN respectively, play a crucial role in enhancing coordination
between institutions of civil society, the public health institutions, non-governmental organizations and line
services. This implies sharing of infornation, joint organization of activities and events including
- 39 -



supervision, and active participation in each other's planning and progress meetings. This takes into
account other donor projects and ongoing programs of similar nature. Hence, before anything, a mapping
exercise at regional and district level will be carried out to identify other programs and organizations which
will constitute the starting point to identify synergies and links or dangers of duplication with other
programs.
CLM exemplifies an ideal opportunity for coordination at central level with membership of all relevant line
ministries, civil society and non-governmental organizations.
1.2. Organizational
The CLM has been strengthened by moving it under the auspices and chairmanship of the Office of the
Prime Minister. This will redress the weak involvement of the CLM under the earlier project. The CLM is
now established under a new decree and will have more active participation from all sectors. It will also be
strengthened through the creation of a Technical Committee responsible for seeking technical advice from
experts as well as a Committee responsible for Monitoring and Evaluation. The CLM will be supported in
its mandate by the National Executive Bureau (BEN) which acts as its secretariat. In addition to their
regular meetings, members of the CLM will be expected to participate in learning events such as study
tours, international conferences and stakeholder "apprentissage" events at each level of activity.
The BEN (and BERs) will be strengthened through the provision of training, equipment and materials
necessary for its effective functioning. Consultants will work closely with the BEN to develop the modus
operandi and materials for the NEP. As part of technical and financial audits, the BEN will also undergo
annual performance evaluations to ensure career development and leaming opportunities as well as to
improve the quality of the program. The BERs will initially be branches of the BENs responsible for
coordination and supervision activities at a regional level. In phase II, the BERs will probably need to
undertake further responsibilities for financial management as the expansion will place too large a burden
on the national BEN. The responsibilities of the BERs and the related mechanisms (eg. Financial,
operating) will need to be assessed as part of the evaluation and recommendations for phase II.
The MOHP, in particular its Nutrition Division (DNAN), as the main agency responsible for disseminating
technical norms under the PAIN, will receive support for its operational functioning (including
management, technical, physical and IT support). The health system will also benefit from program
support for supervision, particularly at the health post. In order to enhance DNANs role and commitment
as the technical service for nutrition in Senegal, DNAN will be supported in facilitating and organizing
regular working groups and seminars which gather all relevant nutrition actors (ministries; the research
community; donors, international, national and regional NGOs). Moreover, DNAN will receive support to
participate in the intemational nutrition community (conferences, study tours, summer schools). DNAN's
presence at the regional level will be strengthened by providing transport allowances. Likewise, at the
district level, the health team member in charge of community health activities and nutritional activities will
be provided with means to carry out more frequent field visits and support supervision.
The NGO pool capable of implementing the NEP activities at district level is expected to be small given
limited experience in contract management and bidding. It should, however, be sufficient for phase I.
Inmmediately eligible NGOs (eligibility criteria details in implementation manual) will be trained in various
areas of program implementation while those NGOs currently ineligible but likely to become eligible for
phase II will be identified and receive training to build capacity in weak areas. Likely areas of training
include contract management, preparation of bidding proposals, accounting, and other administrative and
management needs in order to ensure open competition for contracts. Selection criteria for phase II partner
- 40 -



NGOs will be determined in the execution manual. Training needs as well as the organization of such
trainings will be identified by the BEN through consultative forums, proposals submitted for Phase I and
program evaluation. Local government structures (rural and urban) will be invited to participate in the
training on contract management in order to increase the pool of future potential service providers.
An earmarked amount of $200,000 is allocated for the first year of the program. This amount is to provide
for an evaluation and provision of training needs of the current private service providers in the urban areas
(contracted under the earlier community nutrition project). Some of these providers will reconstitute
themselves as NGOs that will submit proposals for phase I while others may wish to receive training for
other purposes since urban centers as such will no longer be financed under the program.
2. Monitoring and Evaluation and Research
2.1. Monitoring and Evaluation
Continuous monitoring, annual reviews and end of phase evaluations will be based on pre-determiined
indicators, which will measure inputs, outputs and outcomes. Program performance and monitoring
indicators are defined in Annex I and details for each intervention will be described in the operational
manual and revised if necessary subject to IDA's prior consent. Annex 12 contains an outline of the M&E
plan including Learning-by-Doing events for stakeholders at different levels.
The M&E Plan will be detailed with specific indicators before project effectiveness. It will include
monitoring and evaluation plans for each level/structure within the NEP. It incorporates monitoring and
evaluation of performance across a number of dimensions: (i) technical (ii) operational (iii) financial
management (iv) leaming.
For each of these dimensions, the plan specifies the following requirements:
1.     Technical Key Performance Indicators
2.     The format in which these are presented
3.     The sources of information
4.     The person/structure responsible for the M&E
5.     The destination of the report/activity
6.     The regularity with which these are reported
As such the plan is multi-dimensional and ensures that at each level of activity, capacity is built to
undertake both monitoring and evaluation. As part of evaluation, specific learning activities are stipulated
to ensure that lessons learned are discussed and incorporated by stakeholders at each level. This promotes
not only 'learning-by-doing' but accountability, transparency and sustainability.
The M&E system will be built upon lessons leamed from past experiences in the urban project, the specific
context of Senegal's rural areas and best practice where relevant from other projects. A principal weakness
in past monitoring systems has been the poor use of information for feedback in particular to the
community itself. Information should also go beyond the weighing indicators and include information on
interventions which aim at behavioral changes. This information needs to be discussed and internalized
through opportunities for learning by the stakeholders themselves. Reports (in writing and in participatory
events) on the progress of each program component will be provided on a timely basis including updated
information on program implementation, highlighted problems and recommended actions to be taken. The
overall responsibility for NEP M&E lies with the executive bureau of the CLM, but each implementer will
be expected to include M&E in their responsibilities.
- 41 -



2.2 Technical and Other Research
Technical research: Given the incompleteness of data on micronutrient deficiencies in Senegal, a national
micronutrient survey using biochemical indicators will be conducted during phase I of the project. A
national anthropometrics survey was recently conducted (MICS 2000) providing the baseline data for the
growth monitoring program. In addition, a Knowledge, Attitude and Practices survey will be carried out in
year 2 to refine the communication strategy. The evaluation at the end of Phase I will be based on pilot
results, cost-benefit analyses and sustainability assessments of different implementation mechanisms.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.50 million
3.     Program Management
The BEN will be responsible for the daily management of the NEP. The BEN will report on a
three-monthly basis to the President of the CLM, the CLM core group and on a regular basis to IDA. In
July 2003 and July 2004, the BEN will submit its annual review report to IDA. It will ensure the financial
management, the reporting and auditing systems and the handling of procurement. It will select and
contract out to implementers the execution of the NEP interventions and facilitate the supervision of the
interventions by the designated sector-ministries and departrnents.
Subsequent Phases and Sustainability
The program provides for evaluations at the end of each phase in order to assess strengths and weaknesses
and adjust the program accordingly for future phases. The program will also examine the implications for
sustainability of the NEP following the 10 year program as currently envisaged. It is anticipated that the
Govemment will need to continue to invest in nutrition after the 10 year program as nutrition is unlikely to
become totally self-financed according to international practice. However, it is envisaged that the
cost-effectiveness of the program (in terms of impact) will result in a policy of inclusion of the interventions
as part of the Government budget on an ongoing basis after year 10, with limited support from external
sources of finance.
-42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
1. Community Nutrition and Growth Promotion               6.00         1.00          7.00
2. Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation        3.21         0.85          4.06
2.1. Institutional and Organizational
2.2. Monitoring and Evaluation and Research               0.72         0.60          1.32
3. Program Management                                     1.72         0.60          2.32
Total Baseline Cost                                      11.65          3.05        14.70
Physical Contingencies                                   0.90         0.20          1.10
Price Contingencies                                      0.30         0.10          0.40
Total Project Costs'             12.85         3.35         16.20
Total Financing Required              12.85         3.35         16.20
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                       0.45          0.45         0.90
Works                                                       0.20          0.00         0.20
Pharmaceuticals                                             0.00          0.75         0.75
Consultant Services and Training                            7.70          1.65         9.35
Community Grant Fund (Sub-projects)                         0.50          0.00         0.50
Operating costs                                             1.00          0.00          1.00
Refunding of PPF                                            0.60          0.20         0.80
Unallocated                                                 2.40          0.30         2.70
Total Project Costs'     12.85          3.35        16.20
Total Financing Required     12.85          3.35         16.20
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 20.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 72.77% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-43-



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
1.    This annex presents the results from the economic analysis for the Senegal Nutrition Enhancement
Program. The program supports Senegal's national nutrition policy, Lettre de Politique de Developpement
de la Nutrition, which aims to improve the nutritional status of children, and pregnant and lactating
women, in poor rural and urban areas. The economic analysis of the program covers the following: (a) the
rationale for public sector involvement and poverty impact of the program; (b) the cost effectiveness
analysis of program interventions; and (c) a risk-sensitivity analysis.
Rationale for Public Sector Involvement
2.     Malnutrition among young children under five years of age and among pregnant and lactating
women is a major public health concern in Senegal. Results from the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey
2000 (MICS) indicate that 19 percent of children under five are stunted, 8.3 percent are wasted and 18.4
percent are underweight. The nutritional status of women of reproductive age in Senegal is also poor - 15
percent of women between ages of 15 and 49 are underweight (Body Mass Index < 18.5). Fifty four
percent of households in Senegal live below the poverty threshold (minimum calorie intake lower than 2400
calories per adult equivalent per day). Seventy two to 88 percent of households in rural areas especially in
the center, south and north east regions are poor compared to 44 percent to 59 percent in urban areas.
Malnutrition rates are higher in rural areas (where the majority of the country's poor reside) compared to
urban areas - 20.9 percent of children are stunted, 9.3 percent are wasted and 20.5 percent are
underweight in rural areas compared with 14.5 percent, 6.9 percent and 13.2 percent respectively in urban
areas.
Table 1: Malnutrition prevalence for children under five years of age
|Stunting        |Wasting       Underweight
Total                       19               8.3           18.4
Area of Residence
rural                       20.9             9.3           20.5
urban                       14.5             6.9           13.2
Region of residence
Dakar                       17.2             6.5           12.8
Zinguinchor                 17.4             2.7           15.1
Diourbel                    18.9             8             18.5
Saint-Louis                 14.9             12.1          19.3
Tambacounda                 24               11.5          23.8
Kaolack                     19.3             14            24.7
Thies                       17.2             5.9           15.2
Louga                       17.7             5.8           17.9
Fatick                      23.2             8.4           19.7
Kolda                       23.2             9.4           22.2
Source MICS 2000.
- 44 -



3.     Equitable income growth is a key factor in reducing malnutrition. In Senegal, during a period
stable economic growth of 5 percent between 1992 and 1996, chronic malnutrition (stunting) among
children under five years of age decreased by 4 percent. However, recent studies have shown that
malnutrition persists even where rapid income growth occurs, unless additional direct measures are taken.
Investing public finances in nutrition would therefore significantly promote equity and alleviate the
consequences of poverty in the country, since malnutrition is essentially confined to the poorest segments of
the population and to its more vulnerable groups (children under five, pregnant and lactating women.
Public investment targeted to the malnourished is thus a direct investment in improving the welfare and
health status of the poor. Inadequate information on the benefits of good nutrition is often the reason for
lack of demand. As such, imperfect information is a strong rationale for public investment in nutrition
education, IEC, and research and monitoring.
4.     Investments in nutrition have multiple benefits - it reduces the risk of mortality and morbidity
among children as well as mothers. Malnourished children have a higher risk of dying than well-nourished
children. A study by Pelletier et al suggests that 54 percent of child deaths are attributable to underweight,
of which 83 percent are due to mild to moderate underweight. Malnutrition is also associated with a
significant increase in child morbidity through increased incidence of diarrhea and acute respiratory
infections. In Senegal, the prevalence of diarrhea is high and effects almost 26 percent while respiratory
infections effect 6.6 percent of all children under 5 years of age.
5.     Micro-nutrient deficiency among children and pregnant women, especially iron deficiency, is high
among the poor in Senegal. In 1996, almost 56 percent of pregnant women were anemic. Severely anemic
women are at considerably greater risk of death during childbirth and iron deficiency anemia may account
for one fifth of maternal deaths. Maternal mortality ratio remains high in Senegal - 510 women per
100,000 live births in 2001 - with wide disparity between rural and urban areas (950 in rural vs. 450 in
urban areas). In addition, malaria, the main cause of morbidity in Senegal especially among children and
pregnant women, is endemic. Matemal anemia and malaria act synergistically to cause low birth weight.
Poor nutritional status among women has a significant effect on child morbidity and mortality through its
impact on birth weight, prematurity and nutrition stores in infants. Low birth weight is high at 13.4
percent with wide variations across regions. It is alarmingly high in Diourbel (29 percent) and Fatick (22
percent) while Thies and Tambacounda have rates below 10 percent. Vitamin A deficiency is also a public
health concern in the regions of Diourbel, Fatick, Kaolack and Saint Louis. Adressing vitamin A deficiency
can reduce mortality among children by nearly 23 percent.
6.    Improved nutrition and health status improves cognitive ability and school performance among
children. On the other hand, malnutrition diminishes physical and cognitive capacity and reduces work
performance of adults resulting in high economic costs to the individual and the society.
Table 2: Estimated impact and cost of program intervention
No program intervention   With program intervention
Indicators in 2012: population in target 3396287              3396287
areas
Crude birth rate                    32.2                      32.2
Under five mortality rate per 1,000 births  85                75
Low Birth Weight (%)                13.4                      7
Total target population:
Children under three years of age   281892                    281892
-45-



Pregnant and lactating women        122266                   122266
Total until 2012
Births (number)                     1137963                  1137963
Child deaths (number)               103297                  98086
Low birth weight babies (number)    152487                   115104
Underweight children under 3        125188                   125188
Effects:
Child deaths averted (number)                               5841
Low Birth Weight averted (number)                            37383
Underweigth cases averted                                    255345
Discounted healthy life years gained                         150288
Costs (2002-2012)
Total cost in US$                                            60 million
cost per beneficiary per year of program in                  15.4
US$
Cost per discounted healthy life year                        399
(DHLY) gained
Summary of benefits and costs:
7.     The Nutrition Enhancement Program is a ten-year program which promotes an inter-sectoral
approach through growth monitoring and promotion and micronutrient programs, improved community
based IMCI, improved household food security, nutrition information, education, counseling and behavior
change programs and community awareness building. These are considered the most effective core
interventions (best buys) needed to target malnutrition which in Senegal is due to a combination of diet and
disease compounded by inadequate care of women and children. According to the 1993 World
Development Report, nutrition education, micronutrient supplementation and growth monitoring of children
fall among the ten least expensive child health interventions.
8.     Economic benefits of program interventions are analyzed in terms of lives saved, although other
adverse events averted are indicated but not incorporated into the final calculation. It must be noted
however, that this is an underestimate of the actual economic impact of program interventions. Other
benefits not quantified here include cost savings from lower future health care treatment costs,
psychological benefits of a healthy population, poverty alleviation, and improved productivity and
efficiency among current and future workers.
9.     The program targets children under three years of age and pregnant and lactating women. The
program would under modest assumptions, cost US$60 million and avert 5,841 child deaths. In addition it
would also avert 37,383 low birth weight cases and 255,345 underweight cases. Over the ten year lifetime
of the program, the effect will be a gain of 150,288 DHLYs (from reduced child mortality alone) at a cost
of US$399 per DHLY gained.
Main Assumptions:
10.   This section compares the costs of the program with the measurable economic benefits that arise
from the implementation of the program. The program targets 281,891 children under three years of age
and 122,266 pregnant and lactating women during the ten-year period.
11.   The base case is one where there is no program intervention. It is assumed that in this case current
- 46 -



levels of matemal mortality (510 per 100,000 live births), low birth weight cases (13.4 percent) and
malnutrition prevalence (13.2 percent in urban areas and 20.5 percent in rural areas) persist. Child
mortality rate is assumed to decline from the current rate of 98 per 1,000 births to 85 per 1,000 births by
2012. The program does not presume a decrease in matemal mortality or morbidity since these are
multi-causal. However, the program interventions result in lowering the child mortality rate to 75 per 1,000
births and low birth weight prevalence to 7 percent by 2012. Malnutrition in rural areas decline to 12
percent (measured by underweight) and in urban areas to 9 percent by 2012.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
12.    The costs of the Nutrition Enhancement Program arnount to US$60 million over the lifetime of the
program. Compared to the base case scenario, 5,841 child deaths, 37,383 low birth weight cases and
255,345 underweight cases are averted by the program's interventions. Suppose the number of discounted
healthy life years (DHLYs) gained per child death averted averages 26 years of a healthy life. Over the ten
year lifetime of the program, the effect will be a gain of 150,288 DHLYs at a cost of US$399 per DHLY
gained. The cost-effectiveness analysis here only concentrates on DHLY gained from reducing child
mortality. If DHLY gained from reduced morbidity were included in the analysis, the gains from the
program would be considerably higher. In addition, low birth weights adverted as a result of the program
not only reduces infant mortality, but also increases savings by reducing the extra costs of treatment for
attending infirmities.
Risk/Sensitivity Analysis:
13.    It is assumed here that the program could face the risk of a direct reduction in expected benefits
due to lower than expected reductions in the number of adverse events averted and reduced mortality. This
would result due to a lower than expected effectiveness in the Nutrition Enhancement program. A 10
percent reduction in program benefits due to lower than expected reductions in the number of deaths, would
result in 135,259 DHLY gained at a cost of US$444 per DHLY gained. A 20 percent reduction in
program benefits, would result in 120,230 DHLYI gained at a cost of US$499 per DHLY gained. A 40
percent reduction in program benefits, would result in 90,172 DHLY' gained at a cost of US$665 per
DHLY gained.
14.    Is gaining one more year of healthy life a good investment at US$399 per DULY gained? One way
to examine this question is to consider the value to the country of the loss of a year of healthy life. Since
the per capita GNP of Senegal is US$510, it would be worthwhile to pay US$399 to avoid the loss of a
year of healthy life. This cost should be lowe,- when taking into account increased productivity, reduced
costs of health care and opportunity cost for care-givers, for both mortality and morbidity. Only under the
worst case scenario (less than 60 percent effective) will the cost of the intervention begin to exceed the
GDP per capita benefits.
End Notes:
I.  D. L. Pelletier, E.A. Frongillo, D. G. Schroeder and J. P. Habicht (1995), WHO 73(4).
2.  Judith McGuire, The Payoff from Improving Nutrition, World Bank, January 1996.
3.  Beaton, G. H amd H. Ghassemi, Supplementary feeding programs for young children in developing
countries. Report to UNICEF and ACC Sub-committee on Nutrition of the UN, 1979.
4.  Calculated using current life expectancy at 2.5 years as 52.5 years for children discounted at a rate of 3%.
Based on these assumptions, averting an child death would result in gaining 26 DHLYs. It is to be noted that,
life expectancy at 2.5 years is a conservative estimate of the life expectancy of the children who survive as a
direct benefit of the program since program itself would increase the life expectancy at 2.5 years because of
- 47 -



the child mortality that is being averted as a result of the program.
5.  The result is calculated as 100% times US$60 million divided by 150288.
6.   The result is calculated as 90% times US$60 million divided by 150288.
7.  The result is calculated as 80% times US$60 million divided by 150288.
8.  The result is calculated as 60% times US$60 million divided by 150288.
-48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Years Ending
| Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          4.8       4.0        1.3       1.3       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.8        1.4       1.4       1.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         5.6       5.4       2.7       2.5        0.0       0.0      0.0
.Total Financing            5.6        5.4       2.7       2.5       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  5.1       4.9       2.4       2.3       0.0      0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.5       0.5       0.3       0.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    5.6       5.4        2.7       2.5       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-49 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted in July 1994, which found that
National procedures needed major improvements for better transparency and efficiency. Following the
CPAR, the Country embarked in the reform of the Public procurement system. As a result a new
procurement code was prepared with Bank assistance and is pending adoption. The findings of this review
remain valid. In general, Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA guidelines.
No special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents since Senegal's
procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedent over any contrary provisions in local
regulations. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with
Senegal's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. For NCB
procedures, the following principles have been adhered to: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit
bids (4 weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualifications criteria are clearly specified in the bidding
documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible firms are not
precluded from the competition; and (v) prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding
document is submitted to and deemed acceptable to IDA.
Other than the rehabilitation of the existing construction, ORANA-building, no major civil works will be
financed under the IDA credit.
Goods financed by IDA will be purchased in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999). World Bank's standard Bidding Documents will be used for all Intemational
Competitive Bidding procedure. The Bank standard bidding document (SBD) and Standard Evaluation
Report will be used for ICB. NCB will be carried out using the Bank's SBD with appropriate
modifications in relation to provisions relating to advertisement and notification; currencies of bid and
payment; settlement of disputes; and deletion of the domestic preference provision.
Consultants services financed under IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal will be used for the
recruitment of Consultants.
Community participation in procurement will be based on the Bank Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments February 1998) as reflected in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM).
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations Development
Business (UNDB), as well as in the local newspaper to advertise for any ICB for goods and for major
consulting assigrments (above US$100,000). The GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding
procurement. Specific Notices (SPN) and Expressions of Interest (EOI) will be prepared for the individual
procurement actions where necessary. The program elements by disbursement category, their estimated
- 50 -



costs, and procurement methods are summarized in Table A below. Thresholds for procurement methods
and prior review are summarized in Table B below
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
Procurement will be managed by the Bureau ExecutifNational (BEN). The BEN is the project
implementation unit (PIU) of the program. It was created by "Arrete 010062/PM/CAB/DC" dated
December 26, 2001. All positions in the PIU, including the procurement and the financial management
specialists, acceptable to IDA, have been filled, and staff did actively participate in the evaluation of the
program. The procurement specialist's responsibilities include preparation and execution of the
procurement plan and preparation of bidding documents, contract management and reporting.
Capacity Assessment
A participative procurement capacity assessment of the executing agency was executed during the course
of project preparation, and updated during project evaluation. The recruitment of the procurement
specialist is completed; a draft procurement plan, and a GPN were prepared during project evaluation; a
filing system satisfactory to IDA is being established; and draft bidding for NCB were discussed during
project evaluation. However, there is still need for improvement in the area of procurement planning and
contract management. As a result, the action plan to strengthen the BEN capacity to execute procurement
activities include (i) training sessions and technical assistance in Bank procurement procedures,
procurement planning and contract management as needed, and (ii) a procurement planning and contract
management module to be included in the Integrated Computerized Financial Management system to be
acquired by the project. The procurement capacity assessment document is available in the project
technical documents.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the Borrower
for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The BEN will be required to prepare a
computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed upon would not be exceeded during
the life of the project implementation.
Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
A project implementation manual (PIM) is being prepared. A procurement section acceptable to IDA has
been drafted. The manual will serve as a practical guide describing procedures agreed upon in the DCA.
Sections of the manual include: (i) procedures for calling for bids; selecting consultants; and awarding
contracts; (ii) intemal organization for supervision and control; operational guidelines defining the role of
the executing agency and reporting requirements; (iii) disbursement procedures; and the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) developed, and agreed upon during negotiations. A final version of the PIM,
acceptable to IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness.
During negotiations, the Borrower reviewed and agree with IDA on: (a) a draft procurement plan for the
first year of the project; (b) a draft version of the PIM; (c) draft bidding documents to be used under NCB
for goods. The Borrower will also give assurances that it will: (a) use the PIM; (b) use the Bank SBDs for
ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the standard Bid Evaluation
Reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the Development Credit
Agreement; (d) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other
donors, to compare target times and actual completion; and (e) carry out, during annual reviews an
assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance.
- 51 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works
Besides the rehabilitation of the ORANA former headquarters to house the nutrition information unit of the
DNAN and the rehabilitation of the BEN regional offices no major civil works will be financed under the
IDA credit at the central level.
IDA-financed Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 and less than US$200,000 up
to an aggregate not to exceed US$0.11 million will be procured in accordance with National competitive
procedures acceptable to IDA.
Small Works: Works contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less will be procured
under lump sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
qualified domestic contractors invited to bid, not to exceed US$0.09 million. The invitation will include a
detailed description of the work including basic relevant drawings were applicable. The award would be
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required works, provided he
demonstrates he has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Goods
The goods to be financed under IDA credits (totaling US$0.9 million) will be grouped into packages of at
least US$100,000 equivalent to be procured through Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB), not too
exceed US$0.32 million in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines. National Competitive bidding
procedures will be used for procurement of goods involving contracts lower than US$100,000, but greater
than US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$0.31 million over the life of the project. Contracts below
US$50,000 for small items including equipment and office supplies will be procured through
local/intemational shopping procedures acceptable to IDA with a minimum of at least three price
quotations, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.22 million. The award will be made to the
supplier with the lowest price quotation for the required goods, provided the latter has the experience and
resources to execute the contract successfully.
Pharmaceuticals
To facilitate speedy procurement of items required urgently for institutional strengthening, such as drugs,
medical supplies, and kits, may be procured from the United Nations Agencies (i.e. UNFPA; UNICEF;
WHO; WFP), not too exceed US$0.75 million in accordance with para. 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines.
The list of these items and their estimated value should be agreed upon with IDA as per approved
Procurement Plan. The procurement and timely distribution of the goods will be the responsibility of the
BEN.
Consultant Services
The IDA credit will finance consultant services estimated to cost US$9.35 million. These consultant
services include studies; support to project implementation; audits; financial management support; capacity
building; training of NGOs to provide technical advice, and supervision to micro-entrepreneurs; nutrition
monitoring and evaluation activities; and implementation of a nutrition IEC program. These contracts will
- 52 -



be procured according to IDA guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" January 1997 revised in September 1997, and September 1999.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-list
for contracts estimated to cost under US$100,000 or equivalent, may be comprised entirely of national
consultants (in accordance with the provisions of para. 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a
sufficient number of qualified firms (at least 3) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign
firms have expressed the interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The Standard Request for
Proposals (RFP), as developed by the World Bank, will be used for requesting proposals, and for selection
and appointment of consulting firms. Simplified contracts may be used for short-term assignment (less
than 6 months).
In general, the selection of consultants will be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms
through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS), by evaluating the quality of the proposals before
combining quality and cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The BEN will
widely publicize expression of interest to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed upon criteria,
the PIU will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short-lists
Other methods will also apply. Least-Cost Selection (LSC) in accordance with para. 3.1 and 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines, will be used for audit and other contracts of a standard nature costing less than
US$100.000. Least-Cost Selection procedures imply that the firm with the lowest price will be selected
provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark.
Selection based underfixed budget (FB) may be used when the assignment is simple and can be precisely
defined and when the budget is fixed and is below US$20,000 equivalent. The RFP should indicate the
available budget and request the consultants to provide their best technical and financial proposals in
separate envelopes, within the budget. Evaluation of all technical proposals should be carried out first as in
QCBS methods. Proposals that exceed the indicated budget should be rejected. The consultant who has
submitted the highest ranked technical proposal among the rest should be invited to negotiate
Selection based on consultant's qualifications (which consist in comparing at least 3 qualified
individuals); may be used for the selection of research institutes; training institutions; and for assignments
that meet criteria set out in para.3.7 of the guidelines, and costing less US$20,000.
Individual consultants, BEN staffing and services for tasks such as training, seminars and small studies
that can be delivered by individuals and do not need team work or back up support services, will be
procured through comparison of qualifications (CVs) of at least three qualified individual consultants
expressing interest or approached directly, in accordance with section 5 of the Guidelines.
Community-Based Procurement
Community nutrition activities to be contracted to NGOs will include IEC services; referral services for
severely malnourished children; distribution of micronutrients, etc., the rehabilitation of existing
constructions to house nutrition activities etc. The Africa Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998) will be used in the design of procedures
under this component but cognizance with local practices and the capacity of Communities to manage the
process will be an important consideration. These procedures will be developed and included in the PIM
for approval by IDA. The BEN will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these Guidelines and
ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and consultants
- 53 -



appointed by the BEN. The delivery of community nutrition and growth promotion services will be
contracted to NGOs in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, and consistent with procedures
applicable to service contracts. NGOs expected to participate in the delivery of nutrition activities
comprise NGOs and other primarily small community groups (women groups; community associations;
GIEs and youth groups). Micro-entrepreneur's qualification criteria include formal registration as a legal
entity, recognized by communities.
IDA-Reviews
IDA-financed contracts for goods and works above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent will be
subject to IDA prior review procedures. Draft standard bidding document format for NCB will be
reviewed and agreed upon with IDA. Prior IDA review will apply to contracts for recruitment of
consulting firms and individual consultants estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more, and
US$50,000 equivalent or more, for firms and individual consultants, respectively. IDA review will also
apply to the first three NCB contracts for goods and works and to the first three contracts for consulting
firms. However, the exception to prior review will not apply to the Termns of Reference of such contracts
regardless of value, to assignments of a critical nature (such as audits), or to amendments of contracts
rising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultants contracts estimated to cost less
than US$ 100,000 but more than US$50,000 the Bank will be notified of the results of the technical
evaluation before opening the financial envelopes.
Post Reviews
All contracts below the thresholds indicated under the precedintg paragraph will be subject to post reviews.
Once a year IDA supervision missions will conduct a post review of a sample of contracts not subject to
prior review. All documents related to contracts below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by
the project for such ex-post reviews or reviews by auditors.
Once every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits at least once a year).
Post Reviews will apply to one contract out of four (3) not subject to prior review. Also the first three (3)
NCB contracts and first three (3) contracts for consulting firms will be subject to prior review and first
consultants contracts. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be
maintained by the Government for ex-post reviews by auditors and IDA supervision missions.
Procurement Process
Stages                                    Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents          4 (6 weeks large contracts)
Preparation of proposals by potential bidders  4 (6-10 for ICB)
Evaluation of proposals                    2 (4 for large contracts)
Signing of contracts                      2
Payments                                  4
- 54 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
-Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        .    CB        ,   NB           Other-       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00           0.11          0.09         0.00        0.20
(0.00)          (0.11)       (0.09)        (0.00)     (0.20)
2. Goods                            0.32            0.31         0.27         0.00        0.90
(0.32)          (0.31)       (0.22)        (0.00)     (0.85)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          9.35         0.00        9.35
Consultant Services and            (0.00)          (0.00)       (9.35)        (0.00)     (9.35)
Training
4. Pharmaceuticals (UN              0.00            0.00         0.75         0.00        0.75
agencies)
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.75)        (0.00)     (0.75)
5. Community Grant Fund             0.00           0.00          0.50         0.00        0.50
(Sub-projects)                     (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)     (0.50)
6. Operating costs, refunding       0.00           0.00          4.50         0.00        4.50
of PPF and unallocated             (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.05)        (0.00)     (3.05)
Total                            0.32            0.42         15.46         0.00       16.20
(0.32)         (0.42)        (13.96)       (0.00)     (14.70)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping and from UN agencies,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
project funds to local government units.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA-financed contracts for goods and works above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent will be
subject to IDA prior review procedures. Draft standard bidding document format for NCB will be
reviewed and agreed upon with IDA. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for recruitment of
consulting firms and individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$100jO00 and US$50,000
equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior review will not apply to the Terms of Reference
of such contracts regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assigmnents of a critical nature, or to
amendments of contracts rising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultants
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000, but more than US$50,000, opening the financial
envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's non-objection to the technical evaluation.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                 Between $200,000 and           NCB                  Prior review:
Civil Works                    $50,000                                      Aggregate $0.11
Small Works                 Below $50,000        Lump Sum Fixed Price        Post Review:
Contracts                 $0.09
2. Goods                   Above $100,000               ICB                  Prior Review:
Aggregate $0.32
Below $100,000               NCB                  Prior Review:
But greater than $50,000                            Aggregate $0.31
Below $50,000              Shopping
Shoppmg        ~~Price Quotations
Post Review:
$0.22
3. Services
Consulting Firms           Above $100,000               QCBS                 Prior Review:
$0.5
(TORs, Short-list; Budget;
RFP; Contract; Evaluation
Reports
Audits/ Studies of       Between $100,000 and           LSC
$50,000                                    Prior Review: (TORs,
Short-list; Budget; RFP;
Contract; Evaluation
Reports)
Individual Consultants   Between $50,000 and     Comparison of 3 CVs
$20,000                                   Prior Review: for TORs;
- 56 -



Budget; Shortlist
Below $20,000              CQ/SBF
Post Review of Selection of
Contract
4. Pharmaceuticals (UN                                UN agencies         Approved Procurement
agencies)                                                                         Plan
I___________________  I____________________  I__________   A ggregate  am ount:  $0.75
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 1.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Post Reviews will apply to one contract out of four (3) not subject to prior review. Also the first three (3)
NCB contracts will be subject to prior review. Documents related to procurement below the prior review
thresholds will be maintained by the Government for ex-post reviews by auditors and IDA supervision
missions.
Action Plan for Strengthening Procurement Capacities
Reinforcement of Procurement Capacities
Action Plan for Strengthening Procurement Capacities
Tasks                       Responsibility               Due Date
Assess and implement training  BEN                       Within the first six months
program for procurement                                 following effectiveness
specialist
Recruitment of additional support BEN                    Continually during project
as needed                                               implementation
Ensure that Procurement     BEN                          Before project effectiveness
planning and contract
management modules are
included in the Project
Computerized Financial
Management System
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 57 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C below. The IDA credit for phase I of the NEP is
expected to be fully disbursed over a period of three and a half years. Although the credit is to be
completed in three years (beginning in July 2002 and ending by July 2005), the project will have six months
to allow payment of last invoices for contracts committed before completion date. Disbursements will be in
accordance with guidelines set out in the Disbursement Handbook and in accordance with all relevant Bank
operational policies and guidelines.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
All applications to withdraw from the credit would be fully documented, except for contracts not subject to
prior review by IDA for which reimbursement may be made against statements of expenditure (SOE). The
BEN would be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and SOEs to be submitted to IDA, and
would indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of any goods and the payment date. Supporting
documentation for all SOEs would be retained along with all supporting documentation for review by Bank
supervision missions and independent auditors. A review of the ability to process SOEs, retain
documentation for field review and that satisfactory controls are in place, minimizing the risk of use of IDA
funds for non-project expenditure was conducted during appraisal.
Special account
To ensure that funds will be available when needed, the Government will open a Special Account in a
commercial bank under conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized amount allocation would be CFAF
1,000,000,000. The authorized allocation shall be limited initially to 50 percent of the authorized amount,
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of US$5
million (SDR 4 million equivalent). Each replenishment request must be accompanied by an up to date
reconciliation statement. IDA would make an initial deposit of XOF 500,000,000 upon credit
effectiveness. Once disbursements have totaled US$5 million (SDR 4 million equivalent) the fully
authorized amount will be paid.
Project Account
Govermment's counterpart funds needed for each fiscal year to cover its share of project investment and
recurrent costs would be deposited by the Government in a Project Account not later than January 31 each
year and before effectiveness first year. The Project Account would be opened in a local commercial bank
managed by the BEN.
- 58 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Works                                       0.20                 80% local expenditures
Goods                                       0.85                 100% foreign, 80% local
Pharmaceuticals                             0.75                 100% foreign, 80% local
Consultants services and training           9.35                       100% total
Community Grant Fund                        0.50                80% of amounts disbursed
Operating Costs                             0.75                         80%
Refunding of PPF                            0.80          Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c)
of Credit Agreement
Unallocated                                 1.50
Total Project Costs                         14.70
Total                                       14.70
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
Scope of the assessment: Based on project implementation arrangement, the overall responsibility for
financial management will remain with the BEN and carried out by the financial management and
accounting unit (the Unit) therein. The role of the other Borrower's agencies such as Direction de la Dette
et de l 'Investissement (DDI), Direction de la Coop&ration Economique et Financiere (DCEF), the
Treasury Department, and the Budget Department in the program financial management will consist of
providing support as required by the government and ensuring that the resources are made available to the
program in a timely manner and in sufficient amount to fulfill its plan. Accordingly, the scope of the
assessment will be limited to the BEN. However, given the decentralized nature of the program and the
number of departments from the Ministry of Finance involved, the coordination and reporting mechanisms
between these entities and the BEN will be looked at to ensure that the arrangements in place will allow for
smooth implementation of program's activities as well as to ensure that loan proceeds are used only for the
purposes for which the loan was granted, with due regard to economy, efficiency, and the sustainable
achievement of the program's development objectives.
BEN financial management capacity: Given that the BEN is new and established gradually throughout the
program preparation process, the capacity in place at appraisal is rather limited. As a result, the
assessment of its financial management capacity at this stage of project cycle consists rather in reviewing
the borrower's plans, identify the needs to be fulfilled, advising on the design of the proposed financial
management system (organization structure, manual of procedures including accounting, budgeting, and
financial systems and procedures, staffing, financial reporting and auditing). The objective is to have a
fully established and functional BEN to declare the program effective so that at the outset of the
implementation of the field activities, the BEN has the appropriate accounting, intemal control, and the
relevant financial reporting systems in place This will allow the BEN to (i) reliably record and report the
financial transactions of the program in a timely manner, including those transactions involving the use of
Bank funds; and (ii) provide sufficient and relevant financial information for managing and monitoring
project activities. All these have considerations have been taken into account to define the financial
management arrangement proposed below. The option of integrating the program's financial management
- 59 -



into the Government Accounting system was also considered and appropriate steps were discussed to
ensure that the program's chart of account will be the same as that of the Direction Generale du Tresor et
de la Comptabilite Publique (DGT-CP). This approach is fully in line with the Financial Monitoringi
Report (FMR) method which is the new financial reporting requirement of Bank-supported projects and
programs. Accordingly, the staffing level of and the experience needed for the financial management and
accounting unit of the BEN were determined on the basis of criteria which include both the public
accounting and private accounting principles.
Financial Management
The BEN through its financial management and accounting unit will have the overall responsibility of the
program financial management. It will have to maintain the program's consolidated budget and accounts.
Toward that end, the financial management and account unit will be equipped with a computerized and
integrated financial management system appropriate to the scale and nature of the first phase of the
program and capable of recording and reporting in a timely manner the program's operations by regions,
components, sub-components, activities, and expenditure categories, regardless origin of funds, including
in-kind contributions. The computerized financial management system will be multi-currency,
multi-location, multi-donor and including, inter-alia, the following modules which should be integrated:
general accounting, cost accounting, budgeting, fixed assets management, contract management,
preparation of withdrawal applications and tracking of disbursement by donors, reports generating,
including quarterly FMRs and annual financial statements. The terms of reference for the establishment of
the computerized financial management system and the action plan to that end were finalized and agreed
upon during appraisal and negotiations. A fully functioning FMA satisfactory to the Bank is considered as
a condition of credit effectiveness.
The computerized and integrated financial management system will include a Manual of procedures for the
program. It will describe: (i) the overall organization of program including an organogram and job
description of the accounting and financial staff; (ii) the accounting system: charts of accounts, cost
accounting and budget coding, accounting standards - could be a modified accrual - to be applied for the
program; the main transactions cycles; flowcharts of the accounting transactions and recordings, the
document flow, format, content, and timing of the program's financial reporting, i.e., financial statements
and other financial reports including FMRs, filing system, etc.; (iii) the various operational procedures
including budget management (planning, execution, and monitoring) and disposition of fixed assets,
procurement of goods and services, disbursement, cost recovery, etc.; and (iv) internal control procedures.
The aforementioned terms of reference specify the Consultants scope of work which include (i)
development and production of the manual of administrative and financial procedures; (ii) the development
of a training program along with a plan for implementation; (iii) selection a software and appropriate
hardware for the installation of the computerized and integrated financial management system.
Staffing
An experienced Financial controller with the relevant academic background and professional training has
been recruited. He will manage the Unit, advise the Program Coordinator on financial matter, and be the
counterpart of the Ministry of Finance within the BEN. He worked closely with the Bank Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) during the appraisal to design the Unit structure, assess its staffing needs
well as to finalize the terms of reference and the basic job description. An internal audit function has been
established within the BEN and he will report directly to the CSC. The appropriate terms of reference have
been prepared and agreed upon. It was also agreed that other than the Financial Controller, a Chief
- 60 -



Accountant, an Accounting Clerk, and Administrative Assistant would be hired in the Unit. The relevant
job description and terms of reference have also been prepared and agreed upon. It was further agreed that
the Consultants to assist in the design and establishment of the Unit which includes the production of the
manual of procedures will review this initial proposal and ensure that the staff foreseen staff complement is
appropriate. The Consultant will also participate in the interviews and selection of the Unit's staff.
Reporting
Two set of financial reports will be prepared by financial management and accounting unit of the BEN: the
quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs, as required by the Bank) and the annual program's
financial statements. The annual financial statements will comprise and will not be limited to: (i) a
statement of Source and Application of Funds for the program during the current year financial year, and
cumulatively since the start of the program: (ii) a balance sheet and any other financial report the Financial
Controller deems necessarily and relevant. The quarterly FMRs agreed upon at appraisal will be prepared
and submitted to the Bank 45 days after the closing of the quarter. The FMRs will be based on the models
developed by the Bank and agreed to with the Financial Controller. They focus on the fnancial aspects of
program and their purpose is program monitoring, not management. The FMRs are not the same as the
audited financial statements required annually for each program. However they may form the basis of these
statement. It was also agreed that the FMRs will include financial, physical progress, and procurement
information to provide information that is useful to the borrower while also providing the Bank with
sufficient information to establish whether: (i) funds disbursed to the program are being used for the
purpose intended; (ii) program implementation is on track; and (iii) budgeted costs will not be exceeded.
Flow of funds
It is expected that resources needed towards the financing of program activities will flow from two
accounts; the Special account for the resources provided from the credit account and the Program account
for the counterpart funds. It has been agreed that, for a period not exceeding one year, the Special account
will be managed by the DDI while capacity of the program financial management unit is being strengthen
to fully understand the Bank procedures before taking over. Accordingly, during the first program year, the
Financial Controller will prepare all the supporting documents for transmission to the DDI to effect
payments. The FC will also be responsible for the preparation of the withdrawal applications or DRFs
under the supervision of the DDI. In the following years, the DDI will set up a sub-account to be directly
managed by the FC. The sub- account will be replenished periodically upon request from the FC.
Regarding the Program account however, the management will be the responsibility of the FC right after
effectiveness. The Program account will receive counterpart funds in compliance with the terms of the
DCA. During the first phase of the program, financial management function will not be decentralized at
the regional level or the Bureaux Executifs Regionaux (BERs). The financial management functions of the
BERs will consist of a petty cash system not to exceed US$100 operating on an imprest basis. The petty
cash will be replenished upon request and presentation of all the supporting documents and a simple
columnar financial report. The FC will audit the management of the petty cash at least twice annually.
- 61 -



Audit requirements
The annual financial statements of the program defined above will be audited for each calendar year by
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with international accepted auditing standards.
Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end
of the audited period.
The auditors will provide separate opinion on each:
* The program financial statements (Statement of Source and Application of Funds, Balance Sheet, etc.)
* The Statement of expenditures (SOE)
* The Special account (SA)
* The project account (PA)
They will also provide a management letter on the Internal control procedures outlining any
recommendations for improving the control system, the accounting and financial procedures as a result of
the financial statement audit.
Details terms of reference for the selection of the program's auditor were prepared, discussed and agreed on
during appraisal. The selection of an auditor acceptable to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.
Program Financial Management Capacity Strengthening Action Plan
To ensure that the above mentioned financial management system requirements will be met in due time to
declare program effectiveness and action plan is proposed hereafter with tasks to be performed as well as
target completion date.
Action                             Tasks                     Target completion
date
1. Development of the       * Preparation of terms of reference       1/26/02
Program's financial procedures
and installation of a
computerized financial
management system
* Request for non-objection on TORs and   1/30/02
manifestation of interest
* Non-objection on TORs and manifestation of  1/30/02
interest received
* Bid package for transmission to prospective  2/1/02
bidders
* Submission of bids                      2/18/02
* Preparation of Technical evaluation report  2/25/02
* Opening of financial proposals          2/27/02
* Non-objection on evaluation reports     3/20/02
* Negotiation and signature of contract   3/26/02
* Execution of assignment                 5/27/02
* Submission of draft report for review and  from 25/05/02 to
approval                                 11/06/02
* Establishment of the financial management
- 62 -



system
2 . Recruitment of:         * Preparation of Job description and personnel  1/26/02
-Chief Accountant -Accounting  profiles
clerk
-Administrative and logistical
Assistant
-Internal Auditor
* Preparation of TORs                     1/26/02
* Request for non-objection on TORs       1/30/02
* Letter of invitation to finms to bid for services  2/1/02
* Negotiation and signature of contract   2/7/02
* Execution of the assignment             2/8/02 - 3/21/02
* Submission of Draft report, for review and  03/26/02 - 04/09/02
approval
2. Selection of an External  * Preparation of TORs                    1/26/02
auditor for annual accounts,
including the PPF in the first
year audit
* Request for non-objection on TORs and   1/30/02
manifestation of interest
* No-objection on TORs and manifestation of  1/30/02
interest received
* Bid package for submission to prospective  2/1/02
bidders
* Submission of proposals                 2/18/02
* Preparation of technical evaluation report  2/25/02
* Opening of financial proposals          2/27/02
* No-objection on evaluation reports      3/20/02
* Negotiation and signature of contract   3/26/02
* Implementation of assignment            To be determined.
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Project Schedule,                      -          Planned                     Actual;
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                           16
First Bank mission (identification)             04/01/2000                   10/16/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     07/16/2001                   01/21/2002
Negotiations                                    11/05/2001                  01/31/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/15/2002
Prepared by:
The Project was prepared by a multi-disciplinary team in collaboration with government counterparts and
development partners in Senegal. The Government counterpart team was made up of Cheikh Tidiane
Coulibaly (Director of Cabinet of the Prime Minister's Office), Cheikh A. Tidiane Diagne, Amadou
Lamine Thiam, Samba Nor Fall (Technical Advisors to the Prime Minister), Guelaye Sall (Director of the
National Nutrition Service, DNAN), Maimouna Diop Ly (DNAN), Maguette Niang (Ministry of
Economics and Finance), Aminata Diop (representative NGO AJED/CONGAD), Biram Ndiaye (National
Coordinator BEN) and his team: Khadidiatou Dieng, Antoinette AYssatou Diop, Nafissatou Fall, Ada
Pouye, Abdoulaye Keita, Abdoulaye Ka, and Papa Biram Diop.
The Bank project preparation core team consisted of Claudia Rokx (Task Team Leader, Senior Nutrition
Specialist), Flavia Bustreo (Senior Child Health Specialist, HDNHE/WHO), Henri Aka (Procurement
Specialist, AFTQK), Kate Kuper (Implementation and Urban Development Specialist, TUDUR) Ahmadou
Moustapha Ndiaye and Siaka Bakayoko (Senior Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK), Aissatou
Mbaye (Health Specialist, Senegal Resident mission), Rekha Menon (Economist, EASHD), Menno
Mulder-Sibanda, Martine Lugat (Nutrition experts, consultants), Orville Grimes (Implementation expert,
consultant) and Inke Mathauer (Institutions and policy analyst, consultant).
The Quality Assurance team was made up of: Alan Berg (former Senior Nutrition Advisor to the World
Bank), Judith McGuire (Senior Nutritionist, LACHD), Mariam Claeson (Lead Public Health Specialist)
and Irene Xenakis (Operations Advisor, AFTQK).
Preparation assistance:
A Quality Enhancement Review for the project was carried out on March 21, 2001. The QER panel
consisted of Richard Westin (Chair), Laura Kettel-Khan (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta), Soniya Carvalho (OEDST), and Christopher Walker (HDNHE). Michael Azefor (LCRVP) also
participated in the Panel Review. Task Team members included Claudia Rokx (Task Team Leader),
Flavia Bustreo, Henri Aka, Menno Mulder-Sibanda and Orville Grimes. The panel's recommendations
were taken into account in the project documents.
A Project Preparation Facility (no. Q266-SE) for an amount of US$ 800,000 became effective in May
2001.
- 64 -



Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Claudia Rokx                       Task Team Leader
Flavia Bustreo                     Senior Child Health Specialist
Henri Aka                          Procurement Specialist
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye           Financial Management Specialist
Siaka Bakayoko                     Senior Financial Management Specialist
Kate Kuper                         Implementation and Urban Development Specialist
Richard Seifinan                   Senior Nutrition Specialist
Aissatou Mbaye                     Health Specialist
Rekha Menon                        Economist
Southsavy V. Nakhavanit            Program Assistant
Marie Madeleine Ndaw               Program Assistant
Solange A. Alliali                 Senior Counsel
Wolfgang M.T. Chadab               Disbursement Officer
Amadou Tidiane Toure               Senior Procurement Specialist
Irene Xenakis                      Operations Advisor
Mariam Claeson                     Peer Reviewer
Judith S. McGuire                  Peer Reviewer
Anwar Bach-Baouab                  Cluster leader Health AFTH2
Fran9oise Perrot                   Operations Officer, AFCSN
- 65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Implementation Manual
Draft Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Environmental and Social Data Sheet
Implementation Completion Report, Community Nutrition Project (cr.2723), May 31, 2001, Washington
DC, report no. 21429.
Report on the Institutional Capacity Assessment and Recommendations. Mathauer, May 2001
Bank/Government Aide Memoires:
Identification mission: Dakar, April 2000
Preparation mission: Dakar, October 2000.
Pre-appraisal mission: Dakar, March 2001.
Pre-appraisal mission: Washington DC, October 2001.
Appraisal mission: Dakar, January 2002.
C. Other
Project Background Papers
- Evaluation du Programme Paquet d'Activite6s Integr&es de Nutrition, Service National d'Alimentation
et Nutrition, DNAN, Ministry of Health and Prevention, 2001.
- Revue des Interventions dans le Domaine de la Nutrition au Senegal, Maimouna Diop, Bureau des
etudes Groupe Progresis, June 2000.
- Stifel, D., Sahn, D., Younger, S. Inter-temporal Changes in Welfare: Preliminary Results from Nine
African Countries Cornell University, May 1999.
- WHO Global Database
- Rapport de l'enquete dus les objectifs de lafin de la decennie sur l'enfance (MICS-II-2000),
Government of the Republic of Senegal/UNICEF, November 2000.
- Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, draft 2001.
- Strengthening Grandmothers Networks to Improve Community Nutrition: Experience from Senegal.
2001. In Gender and Development. Judi Aubel et. al.
- Effects of the CFA Devaluation on Urban Food Consumption in West-Africa: Overview and
ross-Country Comparisons. 1999. Bocar Diagana et.al.
- Programme de Pays Senegal, 2002-2006. World Food Programme.
- Assistance du Projet BASICS II au Senegal, December 2000.
- Diagnostique general au niveau des ONGs, OCBs, et STA locaux, Abdoulaya Ba, December 1999.
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev d
P055471       2001 TRADE REFORM AND COMPETMVENESS                    0.00    100.00                 0.00      0.00      47.86      1.67      0.00
P041528       2001 LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT                    0.00    125.00                 0.00      0.00     121.31     -0.85      0.00
P041566       2001 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM                   0.00     30.00                 0.00      0.00     28.32      -1.61      0.00
P067498       2000 PUBLIC SERV. INFO-SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION           0.00     10.15                 0.00      0.00      7.56       8.17      0.00
P057996       2000 NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT             0.00     28.50                 0.00      0.00      24.14     18.61      0.00
P055472       2000 URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                0.00     70.00                 0.00      0.00     63.66      15.03      0.00
P069198       2000 Distance Leaming Center- LIL                      0.00      2.10                 0.00      0.00      0.80       0.27      0.00
P047319       2000 QualIty Education For Al Program                  0.00     50.00                 0.00      0.00      40.84     -5.60      0.00
P002367       1999 AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                              0,00     27.40                 0.00      0.00      21.63     20.79      0.00
P002366       1999 TRANSPORTII                                       0.00     90.00                 0.00      0.00      76.40     25.11      0.00
P002365       1998 URB DEVT & DECEN PRO                              0.00     75.00                 0.00      0.00      42.45     39.50      0.00
P051610       1998 AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                               0.00      8.00                 0.00      0.00      4.53       4.39      1.88
P002369       1998 INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                              0.00     50.00                 0.00      0.00      25.46     27.20      0.00
P046768       1997 SN SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                           0.00      5.20                 4.70      0.00       2.90      2.62      1.60
P046648       1997 SN REGIONAL POWER                                 0.00     10.50                 0.00      0.00       2.71      3.11      0.00
P042056       1997 SN SUST PART ENGY MGMT                            0.00      0.00                 4.70      0.00       1.76      1.14      0.63
P041567       1997 ENDEMIC DISEASES                                  0.00     14.90                 0.00      0.00      10.38     10.85      9.91
P035621       1996 PILOT FEMALE LITERACY                             0.00     12.60                 0.00      0.00       0.49     -1.04      0.00
P002373       1996 HIGHER EDUC I                                     0.00     26.50                 0.00      0.00       6.16      4.97      0.00
P002346       1995 WATER SECTOR                                      0.00    100.00                 0.00      0.00      39.11     57.28     11.04
Total:       0.00     635.85               9.40        0.00     566.71     231.81     25.06
- 67 -



SENEGAL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996/97/98         AEF SERT                       0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.09    0.00     0.00    0.00
1980               BHS                            0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46     0.00    0.00
1999               Ciments du Sahel              12.58    2.26    2.20    0.00    0.00    2.26     2.20    0.00
1997               GTI Dakar                     11.36    1.58    0.00    9.36    7.76     1.27    0.00    9.36
1998               SEF Fanaicha                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               SEF SENTA                      0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        24.19    4.30    2.20     9.36    8.01    3.99     2.20    9.36
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               CMII IFC/PSD LN                  3.40      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               SEF Royal Saly                   1.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        4.40      0.00      0.00      0.00
SERT = Societe d'exploitation des ressources thonneres (fisheries)
BHS = Banque Habitat du Senegal (financial)
CDS = Ciments du Sahel (cement factory)
GTI-DAKAR = Power project
SENTA = Senegal Tanerie (leather manufacturing)
SOGECA = Societe generale de credit automobile (financial)
Royal Saly = small tourist hotel
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Senegal     Africa  Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      9.5       659     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   500       480      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     4.8       313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       2.7       2.6       1.9
Labor force 6)                                                 2.6       2A      GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                     enroliment
Povertv (6 of poDulatIon Oelow national povetty line)
Urban Population (% of total population)              45        34       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      52        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              68        92       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            22                             Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X of population)  51        55       76
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                  67        38       38
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-ape population)  66       78       96                 Senegal
Male                                                71        85      102                  Low-income group
Female                                              57        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                          3.0      5.7       4.8       4.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP              11.7     13.8      19.0      19.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP          26.9     25.4      32.6      35.0                   Trade
Gross domestic savingl/GDP                  -5.0     8.9      12.6      12.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  -7.4     6.0      11.6      11.2
Current account balance/GDP                -17.5    -77       -7.5      -8.7     Domestic
Interest PaymentslGDP                       2.2      1.5       1.2       1.8     Domes8                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                             49.3     65.5      77.9      76.8
Total debt service/exDOrtS                 26.7     20.2      13.4      13.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                     42.4      47.4
Present value of debt/exports                                120.2     125.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.1     3.6      51        5.5       5.1                 Senegal
GDP per capita                      0.3     0.9      2.3       2.8       2.6                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      3.7      2.9      6.0      10.5       4.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                18.9     19.9      18.0      18.2     20
Industry                                   15.4     18.7      25.5      26.9      -         _        y'\
Manufacturing                             10.6     13.1      16.9     17.8      i        _
Services                                   65.8     61.4      56.4      54.9  o   I.-..
os r  7   98   39    00
Private consumption                        84.7     76.4      76.5      77.4    .10
General government consumption             20.3     14.7      10.9      10.4                    GDl     -   -GDP
Imports of poods and services              43.6     30.3      39.1      42.7
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 2.8      1.9       6.0      11.5    15
Industry                                    4.3      4.8       6.3       7.3    10 
Manufacturing                              4.6      4.0      4.9       4.8      5
Services                                    2.8      3.8       4.5       3.2     o
Private consumDtion                         2.1      3.6       5.7       4.5  s     95       9s   97     9   s goo0
General government consumption              3.3     -0.1       2.3       0.1    -10
Gross domestic investment                   5.2      5.0       1.7       6.9                  Exports  -lmports
Imoorts of goods and services               1.8      1.9       4.4       5.4
Note: 2000 data are pre8lminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-grouo average. If data are missinao the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 69 -



Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      40
Consumer prices                              8.7     0.3       0.8      0.7     30
lmplicRtGDPdeflator                         11.5     1.2       1.1      0.7     20
Govemment flnance                                                               10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              0                             *_
Current revenue                             22.1     17.2     17.5      18.4           90    96    97    98    99    00
Current budget balance                      -0.5     -1.3      5.1       4.3                 GDP deflator  *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -5.3     -3.8     -3.4      -2.6
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         480      912       989      997     2.000
Groundnut                                   83     159        64       112
Fish                                        78      71        33       33     1.5000
Manufactures                               136     181       242      241
Total imports (cifl                        1,105    1,335    1,455     1,500    *o0h                          d
Food                                       210     361       336      305       0
Fuel and energy                            276     159       197      280
Capial goods                               158      195      234       246       0
94   90   96   97  99   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                79       89        84       78
Import price index (1995=100)                78       88        86       89                 U Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   101      101        98       87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               875    1,491     1,553     1,535     0
Imports of goods and services              1,327   1,764     1,859     1,872
Resource balance                           -452     -273      -306     -337     -2
Net income                                  -100    -197       -72      -66     -4
Net current transfers                        28       32        23       23
Current account balance                     -524    -438      -355     -380
Financing items (net)                       388      503       440      334
Changes in net reserves                     135      -66        85       46    -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       25       22       529      479
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           211.3   272.3     614.9    710.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,473   3,733     3,705     3,362
IBRD                                       57       88         5        1                   G: 147 A: I
IDA                                       100      747     1,310     1,330              F: 21
Total debt service                          260      325       225      228
lBRD                                        6       15         5        3                                     130
IDA                                         1        7        22       24       E: 1,104
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            77      553       204      188
Official creditors                        167       96       -22       -3
Private credRors                            3      -15        -3       -2
Foreign direct investment                  15       57       169       94
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0                 D: 504     C: 255
World Bank program
Commitments                                58      161       128      281      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              30      117        49       92      B - DA   D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        2       12        16       18      C-IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  28      105        33       74
Interest payments                           4       10        11        9
Net transfers                              23       95        22       65
Development Economics                                                                                            9/21/01
- 70 -



Additional Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Translated from French Offical version:
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
one people - one goal - one faith
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
LETTER OF NUTRITION
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Executive Summary
April 2001
INTRODUCTION
Over the past years, the improvement of populations' living conditions has remained a major issue for the
state owing to the negative impacts of structural adjustment policies conducted and which have contributed
in increasing social demand. Growing poverty, difficult access to adequate primary health care, good
quality food for the most vulnerable communities, are at the core of this issue of which the great effects on
health, mortality and development are proven. Thus, the decline of indicators has prompted the government
to commit in various strategies in accordance with the IX plan guidelines which appeals for a sustainable
human development. However, despite these endeavours, the community nutrition status is still a concem
specially at the level of poor areas.
In this respect, it has become crucial for the state to build up a new strategy through an integrated approach
to issues in order to develop appropriate actions related to the current emergencies. Such an approach will
consider sector-related programs and projects in matters of Health, Education, Agriculture, Environment
and more globally will address poverty as part of the program within this framework.
Malnutrition determinants and specific deficiencies in micro-nutrients being multifaceted, the strategies
which are destined to control them, must take into account the improvement of the social, economic
situation of vulnerable groups. Consequently, the measures and tools used to address nutrition problems
will require a synergy of actions of the various sectors and stakeholders, private and public sector. The
letter of nutrition policy development demonstrates Senegal's commitment to address directly or indirectly
the multidimensional nutrition issues, food insecurity through involving all development sectors. It
constitutes therefore a reference forum for implementing intervention measures and strategies which will
have an impact on the improvement of the nutritional status of more vulnerable groups such as children,
reproductive woman and old people.
The main point is for the government of Senegal to consider the nutritional status of vulnerable groups as a
planning objective and an indicator of social and economic development.
- 71 -



PRINCIPLES
1.     Equality
Access to satisfactory supply will ensure a better quality of life by improving their health status.
In so doing, the state will give particular attention to prior needs of the more vulnerable groups living in
poor areas through the development of appropriate and targeted interventions in order to establish the
necessary conditions by strengthening community capacity building and providing opportunities to
participate in development.
2.     Decentralization and Deconcentration
In the context of strengthening and development of the decentralization process, empowerment of local
government capacity has become of a paramount importance.
Decentralization is a political decision which demonstrates a strong will to give more responsibilities to
stakeholders in their choices and options correlated to development.
The state will develop the means and conditions of care taking by local authorities of nutritional status
related issues through identifying, implementing and monitoring of strategies applicable to the social,
economic and cultural environment.
3.     Partnership
The intersectoral aspect of implementation strategies to ensure a harmonization of interventions and to
develop a synergy between the stakeholders involved in nutrition, will require the establishment of
management and concertation executives at the local, regional and central levels.
The State will guarantee the conditions for a broad-based effective and well-organised development of a
partnership in accordance to the expectations of the different existing partners and to the needs of an
efficient improvement of the beneficiaries' nutritional status. In this respect, collaboration with the private
sector will be enhanced.
4.     Know-how
The Know-how as a strategy which allows for ensuring effective and adequate interventions, will be
developed in order to increase programs performance and to permit to reach prior objectives.
5.     Appropriation by communities
The internalisation and appropriation of experiences by communities constitute a demand for the
sustainability of activities. Thus, a participative approach at different levels will be the focus of all
interventions.
6.     Transparency in Management
Implementation procedures and mechanisms to ensure a clear management adopted by all actors, will be the
basis of involvement at the different decision-making levels in managing programs and developing
activities. This alternative means an obligation for outcomes which are appreciated as well in terms of
cost-effectiveness as in efficiency through a regular and permanent monitoring.
7.     Sustainability
The commitment of beneficiaries at the different stages of the program design process and implementation
of actions as well as the approval of effective and long-term financing mechanisms, will constitute a
security for program sustainability.
8.     Ethics
- 72 -



The overall nutrition and health interventions which will be carried out as well as their assessment, must be
mainstreamed under Ethics. Medical Ethics gathers a set of behaviour rules which allow for ensuring
morale and human dignity in actions to be undertaken.
CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
Senegal, a drought country, has a total population of about 9.5 million inhabitants in 2001 with a
population growth rate of 2.7%/year and an urban population growth rate of about4%. On the basis of
development indicators (life expectancy, gross domestic product, education enrolment rate for children of
school age and access to drinking water), senegal ranks among low-in come countries throughout the world.
(75 USD or below of GDP per capita) (WORLD BANK Development Report 2000/2001).
Furthermore, the National Survey on households (ESAM 1994/95) indicates that 58% of households live
under the established poverty thresholds with a minimum consumption of 2,400 of calories /day/adult. This
comprehensive result hides the unequal provisions among poor households. As a matter of fact, 79% of
households live in poor rural areas, according to this report. Currently the poverty term not only includes a
low income and a low consumption, but also access to health, education, food and their aspects related to
human development. Therefore, poverty analysis in Senegal from data collected and demography and
health surveys (EDS 1992 and EDS III 1997) allows for apprehending the living conditions of households
and those linked to access, and reproductive health care (DPS,2000.). The level of indicators also remains
low particularly for heath coverage and education enrolment rates.
According to the conceptual environment of malnutrition (UNICEF, 1992), common indicators that are
used to measure poverty (types of house, water supply, health facilities, access to electricity, education
level of women, malnutrition...), are key points in identifying malnutrition determinants in Senegal. In fact,
by considering lack of access to these different variables, it seems that the percentage of poor households in
urban areas increased from 30.1% to 35% in 1997. This demonstrates the close link existing between
poverty and the nutritional status of vulnerable groups. The effects of adjustment programs, economic
counter-performances in the 80's and early 90's have severely weakened the social situation of households.
Social Development has slowed down in particular with the increase of poverty. In order to remedy these
imbalances, the State has undertaken sectoral and structural reforms aiming at developing human resources
through programs of health, education and promotion of women and children. The average growth rate of
the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) exceeded 5% on average during the 1995-2000 period. Despite all this,
economic performances remain fragile and weak in relation to growing social demand.
The PNUD World report 2000 classifies Senegal at the 155 rank on a list of 175 countries, which further
illustrates the worsening status of living standards. By adopting charters and conventions at various
intemational summits on sustainable human development, senegal is highly committed in accordance with
its mission to promote and provide sufficient and good quality food to its people in general and to the most
vulnerable groups in particular by creating favourable conditions in order to respond to community needs
for energy-providing food items and food tastes so as to enable them lead a decent and active life.
The commitment of the State is ever growing to demonstrate the prior attention given to health and nutrition
promotion. This strong political will expressed during the Alma Ata declaration in 1978 within the
framework of primary health care promotion, renewed at the World Child Summit in 1990 and confirned
during the Intemational Conference on Nutrition 1992, then later at the Copenhagen Summit held in 1996
for the eradication of poverty and in 1996 within the framework of the Action Plan of the FAO for
universal food security, has been translated into the implementation of a National Nutrition Action Plan
- 73 -



(1997-2000). This involvement has been made much greater through various nutrition intervention
programs for the benefit of both rural and urban communities
OBJECTIVES:
The macro-economic policies that have been developed since the CFA devaluation, have helped to boost
economic growth. In addition to structural reforms of the macro-economic environment, some sector-related
programs are ongoing in the field of education, health, water and sanitation and agriculture in order to
improve community access to social services. The Government is also committed together with its partners
to reducing poverty since the national strategy was adopted in 1988, implementing various programs.
With a view to developing strategies to control the multifaceted poverty, the state of senegal will also
implement from the year 2001, diverse actions directed to social sectors thanks to resources drawn from the
debt relief obtained within the framework of the initiative for the benefit of poor indebted countries (PPTE).
Nutrition policy lies in the global prospect of improving the living standards among households specially
the poorest.
The different programs which will be started up within this framework, will directly or indirectly address
the multifaceted malnutrition determinants and food insecurity by involving all development sectors. The
broad purpose of this policy is to improve the nutritional status of poor vulnerable groups, reproductive
women and old people. It will specifically consist of reducing underweight among children over the next ten
years. Therefore, the STATE is thus involved to ensure availability and accessibility of food for all
Senegalese people, but also to prevent and take care of all kinds of disturbances brought on by poor
feeding. Some action programs and coherent strategies will be established in order to reverse the current
trends and to enable populations to lead a healthy and active life.
STRATEGIC GUIDELINES:
Nutrition policy will be structured around two effective strategies which will help to carry out efficient
actions by addressing the:
immediate causes linked not only to levels and adequate of food supply but also, to the nutritional
status of vulnerable groups
underlying causes laced to food insecurity at household level, to environment sanitary level, and to
the operational status of health infrastructures
major causes related not only to the economic and social development situation of senegal, but also
closely linked to institutional environment.
Step 1: strengthening community approach under nutrition programs integrating the PAIN and the PCIMF.
Such programs mainly aim at establishing a certain number of nutrition health behaviours among which
can be mentioned:
growth monitoring promotion among young children;
exclusive breastfeeding up to 4-6 months;
adequate food supplementation in addition to breastfeeding from 4-6 months to 24 months;
vitamin A supplementation for pregnant women and children according to rules and protocols
iron/acid folic supplementation for pregnant women;
iron supplementation for children;
consumption of iodized salt on a regular basis in all families;
appropriate taking care of nutrition during and after illness;
reduction of intestinal parasites among children after deworming;
- 74 -



prevention of diseases by promoting individual and collective hygienic practices to fight against
malaria through immunization coverage, and antenatal and postnatal visits.
Priority action courses:
0      Develop components of the Nutrition Integrated Activities Package (NIAP) at community level.
0      Build up nutrition rehabilitation structures in all areas and strengthen the existing ones at
decentralized level.
0      Develop community component of the PCIME.
0      Establish a national network of nutrition stakeholders.
0      Establish taking care of malnourished children at community level.
Step 2 : Food security enhancement through improvement of agricultural production, Agribusiness
Research and Food Supply. Reforms and programs developed in the agricultural/cattle breeding sector
contribute to the rise in cereal and gardening production and to a diversification of food items on the
market. Moreover, the development of agribusiness and research promotion will allow for improvement,
transformation and consumption of local agricultural products. The promotion of these sectors will play a
paramount role in the programs for food product enrichment in the control of micronutrient deficiencies.
Priority action courses:
0      Improve production conditions of women promotion groups who carry out transformation
activities.
0      Strengthen support to the improvement of agricultural products at the level of groups and small
producers.
0      Promote a diversification of production and consumption at community level.
0      Promote the growth of small and medium-size firms in agribusiness using local products.
Step 3 : Improvement of water and sanitation conditions of households.
The improvement of the living environment is a main condition of sanitation and health promotion. For this
reason, nutrition programs will be combined with actions in order to ensure accessibility to drinking water
and sanitation for poor households:
-      Treatment of used water and disposal of household waste,
-      Building of sanitation infrastructures.
Adequate water supply will be a major concem in that it ensures good health status for populations. In this
respect, great efforts should be orientated towards rural and peri-urban areas.
Priority Action Courses:
0      Improving current water supply for the benefit of populations in poor areas by building up and
managing stand posts.
0      Promote rural sanitation.
0      Promote social water provision in areas located around SDE perimeters and develop water-supply
points in areas situated near drilling wells beyond the control of SDE.
0      Implement community management strategies to dispose of household waste.
0      Develop appropriate technologies for the construction of sanitation infrastructures.
Step 4:
Restructuring and institutional capacity building to monitor and manage nutrition programs.
With a view to developing an effective nutrition policy and ensuring a multisectoral approach to issues, it is
- 75 -



necessary to establish operational and strategic forums of concertation, planning, implementation and
monitoring/assessment of programs. This will help to promote interactions, to ensure a better coordination
of interventions and to effectively assess the impact of different activities related to beneficiaries' needs.
These so-called forums will allow for a balanced representation of actors and where their respective roles
and tasks will be clearly defined at all stages. The coordination of actors (private and public sectors,
NGOs and development partners, local government), will remain a constant and imperious emergency.
Therefore, it turns out to be essential to combine the community nutrition program (CNP)with sectoral
programs such as the Decennial Program of Education and Training (PDEF). Enormous actions will be
tested for. capacity building of local government, community-based organisations, public associations,
NGOs so as to establish between the different stakeholders objective conditions which facilitate
concertation.
Priority Action Courses:
0      Elaborate a comprehensive intervention strategy of program stakeholders (planning, monitoring
structures).
0      Set up mechanisms and monitoring tools to supervise program implementers.
0      Strengthen structures to support coordination at all levels.
0      Develop coordination and management mechanisms.
0      Ensure supervision at all levels according to effective standards.
Step 5 : Strengthening Partnership with Local Government, NGOs, Associations, Execution Agencies,
Private Sector for implementing Nutrition Programs to control malnutrition. Various forms of partnership
will be implemented in order to promote interactions between the different actors. Moreover, such an
approach will facilitate a sound management of means and resources for nutrition sub-programs. The
purpose is to consider a new innovative and self-organisational dynamism, and to promote the faire-faire
policy with an effectiveness goal. Protocols and Conventions, objective-contracts, plan-contracts will be
signed with NGOs or other stakeholders within the framework of implementing some interventions. Higher
commitment of local government should help to enhance local initiatives which are so far limited due to a
deficit of information, a scarcity of means (equipment and logistics), and to motivate the different
stakeholders. Furthermore, with the purpose of reinforcing community-based activities and effectively
supporting the action of health centres and ensuring nutritional marketing policy, the diverse actions at
local and regional level, should include nutritional objectives. For high performance goals, the best
practices should be identified and implemented in order to achieve greater outcomes. Establish terms of
reference for local or national actors interventions to control malnutrition. Develop intervention capacity of
NGOs and other components of the Civil Society.
Step 6 : Improving systems of data collecting, analysis and delivery on nutrition and promoting studies and
research. The implementation of an adequate information system on nutrition and strengthening of a
nutrition supervision scheme at national level, will allow for the development of targeted interventions.
This system makes it possible to periodically receive valid data and to evaluate progress and retrogression
made. The photography of the status of infrastructures will offer an opportunity to provide the necessary
remedies at any time. Therefore, it is crucial when assessing correctly the size of populations' problems
and their evolution, to develop mechanisms of collection, exploitation and delivery of date on nutrition.
Specific measures must be taken to promote studies and research as well as a broad release of outcomes in
order to properly sensitise communities. Studies will be carried out to identify the specific needs of targeted
groups. A set of nutrition-related indicators will be defined to assess progress achieved and weaknesses
recorded during program implementation. It will be essential for analysis purpose to use research findings
which have already been implemented within other countries in the region.
- 76 -



Priority Action Courses:
0      Strengthen system of collecting, analysing figures on nutrition.
0      Carry out specific studies on Nutrition.
0      Conduct surveys to identify specific needs of targeted groups.
0      Carry out periodical situation analyses and studies on knowledge and attitudes of reproductive
health targets.
Step 7 : Enhancement of Human Resource capacity at national and Community level.
The implementation of specific program for community actors (community leaders, health workers, relais,
education staff, teachers and NGOs), will help to ensure sustainability in the resolution of nutrition issues.
The concem is to implement flexible and appropriate training sessions which will enable communities to
identify prior issues and to propose nutrition interventions for which they will be responsible for their
implementation, monitoring and assessment. At central level, capacity must be provided from preliminary
training and at university level so that there will exist in Senegal qualified nutrition specialists who will be
involved in nutrition program implementation.
Pedagogical reforms to be undertaken, must take this concern into account.
Priority Action Courses:
Perform training sessions for community stakeholders and young people to promote sustainable behaviours
for nutrition.
Enhance curricula adapted to nutrition.
Strengthen education programs at the level of training schools and university.
Develop nutrition adapted curricula at the level of nursery and elementary schools and literacy centres.
Step 8: IEC Enhancement Programs/Behaviour Changes/Social Mobilization.
IEC program implementation will ensure community involvement and participation and will promote the
necessary behaviour changes for populations' welfare. Programs will closely work with associations,
religious, political and traditional organisation, civil society, and networks with a social leadership.
Innovative communication methods (use of multimedia tools), will be tested. Prior attention will be given to
women, children and old people. Programs implemented in the field of Education and Literacy, should
serve as a vector for awareness raising and for providing information to children and adults:
Priority Action Courses:
0      Implement tools and communication strategies according to targets.
0      Promote IEC rural and semi-urban areas through training of polyvalent relais who are likely to
intervene within their community.
0      Integrate nutrition modules in literacy programs.
0      Develop IEC programs adapted to schools.
Step 9 : Promotion of income-generating activities.
To ensure favourable conditions for a good achievement of programs, it will be important to include
support activities which will have an effect on the development of economic means for districts and targeted
households such as micro-credit, profit-generating activities for the benefit of women.
Priority Action Courses:
0      Improve production conditions for women promotion groups.
0      Reinforce support to increase agricultural productions at the level of associations and small-size
- 77 -



producers.
0      Establish programs for various income-generating activities.
0      Promote micro-finance.
FUNDING:
Programs which allow for effectiveness of the Letter of Nutrition Development Policy, will be financed
through diverse mechanisms taking into account partners' participation to development, support from the
state as part of its contribution, local government and communities.
The funding plan must integrate procedures which facilitate a quicker mobilization of resources and a
decentralized financial management.
The Secretary General                          The Minister of
of the Presidency                              Economy and Finance
of the Republic
- 78 -



Additional Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation Plan (An Outline)
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
The following Table provides an outline of the monitoring and evaluation plan for the NEP. It will be
detailed with specific indicators before effectiveness. The overall monitoring and evaluation plan includes
monitoring and evaluation plans for each level/structure within the NEP and includes provision for
monitoring and evaluation of performance across a number of dimensions: (i) technical (ii) operational (iii)
financial management (iv) learning.
For each of these dimensions, the plan specifies the following requirements:
1.     Technical key performance Indicators
2.     The format in which these are presented
3.     The sources of information
4.     The person/structure responsible for the monitoring and evaluation
5.     The destination of the report/activity
6.     The regularity with which these are reported
As such the Plan is multidimensional and ensures that at each level of activity, capacity is built to
undertake both monitoring and evaluation. Within evaluation, specific actions for learning are stipulated to
ensure lessons learned are discussed and incorporated by stakeholders at each level. This promotes not only
'learning-by-doing' but accountability, transparency and sustainability.
1.1    Community
Type       Monitoring indicators  Presentation  Source       Reporter    Report
destination
Technical  Nutritional indicators, e.g.; Community bar Registration  Nutrition  Supervisor
# of eligible children,  chart       book of the  aide
# of children weighed, and  .  .     nutrition aide
# of children with     Activity and
unsatisfactory growth  progress report
Household-IMCI         growth
indicators            information
Operational Satisfaction of target group Rapid   Qualitative  Supervisor  NGO
and other community    assessment    survey by
members                report        supervisor
Financial   Level of funds utilization  Minutes of  Financial  Supervisor  NGO
expanded      management
village       committee
committee     for respective
meeting       activity
Learning   Participatory planning
meetings at village level
with the participation of
the entire community
- 79 -



1.2    Health Post
Type          Monitoring indicators   Presentation  Source       Reporter     Report
destination
Technical    List of nutritional and  Summary       Nutrition    Supervisor   Health post
household-IMCI indicators report       aide's                    NGO
including      registration
information by  book
growth
promotion site
and rural
community
Operational  Proportion of functional  Activity/progress Nutrition  Supervisor  Health Post
sites                   report         aide's                    NGO
of svisits                            registration
# of supervisory vlssts            book
# of community meetings                Supervisor's
discussing progress of child           notebook
growth promotion
Satisfaction of village                Supervision  NGO
committee members       Rapid assessmen
report
Qualitative
assessment by
NGO
Financial    n.a.                     n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
Learning     Discussion forum of
iutrition aides and
supervisors with the
participation of the Health
Post manager and the Local
Community
1.3    District
Type        Monitoring indicators   Presentation   Source       Reporter     Report
destination
Technical   List of nutritional and  Summary       Supervisor's  NGO         BER
household-IMCI indicators chapter report  activity               Health
with           report                    District
information by
growth
promotion site,
Local
Community
and Health Post
Operational Proportion of functional  Activity/Progress Supervisor's  NGO     BER
- 80 -



sites                   chapter report  activity report         Health District
# of supervisory visits  Personnel
Supervisor performance  performance
evaluation report
Financial   Level of funds utilization  Financial  NGO          NGO          BER
chapter report
Learning    Annual review of NGO and
supervisors with the
articipation of the Health
Post manager,
epresentatives of the
Health District and Local
Community
1.4    Region
Type        Monitoring indicators   Presentation   Source       Reporter     Report
destination
Technical   List of nutritional and  Summary       NGO activity  BER         BEN
household-IMCI indicators chapter report  reports                Regional
with                                    Health
information by                          Bureau
growth
promotion site,
Local
Community
and Health
District
Operational Proportion of functional  Activity/Progress BER     BER          BEN
sites                   chapter report  NGO activity            Regional
Degree of implementation of NGO        reports                  Health Bureau
rogrammed activities    erformance      .e   .
NGO perforance          evaluation report Supervision
Financial   Level of funds utilization  Financial chapter BER   BER          BEN
Cost per child           eport
Cost-effectiveness
Learning    Regional workshop by BER
and NGOs with the
articipation of Health
District, Regional Health
Bureau, and Local
Communities
- 81 -



1.5    Central
Type        Monitoring indicators  Presentation   Source       Reporter    Report
destination
Technical   List of nutritional and  Summary      BER's        BEN         CLM
household-IMCI indicators chapter report  activity              WB
with          reports
information by
growth
promotion site,
Local
Community
and Region
Operational Degree of implementation  Activity/Progre  Supervision  BEN    CLM
of programmed activities  ss chapter  BEN                       WB
BER performance        report
BER activity
Annual report  reports
BER
performance
evaluation
report
Strategy document for   Strategy      BEN in       BEN          CLM
second phase            document with  coordination             WB
budget        with BER,
Annual planning                       CLM and                  Donors
Action plan   partner
organizations
Financial   Financial indicators    Financial     BEN          BEN         CLM
according to budget     chapter report  External   Auditors     WB
Cost per child                        audits
Cost-effectiveness
Learning    Annual review by BEN
with wide stakeholder
participation
End-of-Phase-i Meeting
Intemational conference
for exchange of
experiences with
international experts
- 82 -



Additional Annex 13: Phase I Costs and Restructuring of Urban Centers
SENEGAL: NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
Under the earlier community nutrition project, IDA financed the establishment of urban nutrition centers
responsible for emergency nutrition services in urban areas. This program was contracted to a private
sector agency (AGETIP) who in turn trained and contracted youths called MICs (organized into registered
companies - GIE - of four MICs each). These MICs were supervised by MOCs, NGOs or local
consultants. The program achieved reasonable coverage but was not cost-effective. In total, 292 centers
were established with 1176 MICs and 63 MOCs.
The NEP Approach in Urban Areas
Under the new program, NEP, a more preventive and cost-effective approach of growth promotion is
planned for urban areas. Eligible providers (including MICs and MOCs) can apply to provide nutrition
services whether these include the use of current centers or other sites in urban areas. As such, the cost of
urban interventions will be determined by an assessment of the cost/child rather than per center in urban
areas. These costs are higher than in rural areas as overheads as well as incentive schemes are necessarily
higher than in rural communities where public spaces and voluntarism are more prevalent.
Restructuring of Urban Centers
Since the closure of the earlier project, the GOS has taken over the cost of the urban centers as an interim
measure. This is not sustainable at USD 1.9 million per year. As a result, the PPF is financing a study
into the restructuring of these urban centers. The study is expected to identify various scenarios ranging
from conversion into multi-sectoral community development centers to closure. IDA will also provide an
amount of $200,000 to evaluate the retraining needs of the MICs and MOCs and procure this training (eg.
Business or technical skills) during the first year of the program. The training does not need to ensure
future participation in the NEP but rather equip the persons involved to find income generating activities as
they see fit. IDA will not, however, be responsible for any further/other liabilities associated with the
urban centers.
Cost/child in Urban Areas
In order to calculate the cost/child for growth promotion activities in urban areas, the existing costs of the
centers were taken as a baseline and then reduced according to perceived cost reduction possibilities in any
given urban context. The study is expected to provide additional input to this calculation but some
assumptions were made during appraisal to ensure a ceiling and approximate cost/child for budget
purposes.
Assumptions               50% coverage
# children aged 0-3       218,946
% coverage                50%
# target children         109,473
ratio of children/animator  200
no. animators             547
no. anim/site             2
no. sites                 274
Exchange rate             720
- 83 -



The following table compares the cost of the NEP under the scenario of maintaining existing centers versus
an alternative scenario of a reduced cost urban "site". As is evident, the NEP approach to urban sites is
expected to be far more cost-effective, reducing the cost per child from $18 to $10 per child in an urban
area. In addition, cost-recovery will ensure that the GOS/IDA contribution is reduced from $18 per child
to $8 per child.
Package (Per Year)       Total Cost
CFA                      Current Urban Centers    NEP Urban Sites
Rent                                       50,000                 50000
night guard                                30,000                 30,000
day guard                                  30,000                     0
incentives (2 animators)                  240,000                120,000
supervision                                50,000                 25,000
Equipment                                  11,000                     0
Food                                           0                       0
Overheads (utilities etc.)                 15,000                 15,000
Monthly charges/site                      426,000                240,000
no.sites                                     274                     274
total/site/year                         5,112,000              2,880,000
total/year                           1,399,064,940           788,205,600
Phase I (3 years)
no. years                                      3                       3
total CFA                            4,197,194,820          2,364,616,800
USD                                     5,829,437              3,284,190
Sources of Funds
Cost recovery                             205,262                615,786
IDA/GOS Contribution*                   5,624,175              2,668,404
Total Cost                              5,829,437              3,284,190
% IDA/GOS Contribution                       96%                    81%
Cost per child per annum
cost/child Total                              18                      10
costlchild IDA/GOS                            18                       8
Contribution
* see next table for details on IDA/GOS contribution
The cost recovery amount increases from approximately $200,000 in the current centers to $600,000 per
urban site during Phase I. These are expected to be covered through income generating activities in the
center, contributions from the community for services and other sources to be determined on a case by case
basis. The study is expected to share some existing best practices and make information available in this
respect.
-84 -



Conclusion
In sum, the results of the appraisal (to be supplemented by the study) have led to the following summary of
cost implications for IDA and the GOS for the first Phase of the NEP in urban areas. The GOS/IDA
contribution will be approximately $8 per child in urban areas out of a total cost of $10 per child. In
addition, IDA will provide $200,000 for retraining of the MICs and MOCs during year I of the NEP. At a
10% counterpart contribution, IDA will finance approximately $7.2 per child during Phase I. Together
with better quality services and more local capacity, this is substantially more cost-effective and
sustainable than the $18 per child of the ealier project approach.
Urban Areas NEP             Phase I       Annual              Per
Costs USD                                                     child/year
package                          3,284,190           1,094,730         10
training                          200,000               66,667
total                            3,484,190            1,161,397
contribution IDA/GOS
package                         2,668,404              889,468          8
training                          200,000               66,667
Total IDA/GOS                    2,868,404             956,135
- 85 -






SENEGAL / SENEGAL
PHASE I OF THE NUTRITION ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM
PROJET DE PREMIERE PHASE DU PROGRAMME DE RENFORCEMENT DE LA NUTRITION
M     A   U   R  I T  A  N    I A
f  F. J..j c-          H   0
A:
'ELF--TFC.- bjy,m,
PE
F-)P T
id-,hrm
3 3 - m- o
0 p J.          0
0                           0
o -J-       .                                                                     T'
C 2c. p  V::1-7 7                                     0  T.-I
PA-e                           t;  C, r. L V,
DAKAR                                  C'  0 P -
orib                                                                              ,as
1-ib
fatic
E.Z,310                                      C,
0
16
rj..3r dL,                               -Sj
0                                         -t lombaco.rj,j                             MALI
-J .
BANJLII
4!"      jyr.
THE
KIP-4.1ETU                   GA M B IA r-'-
n
r 1.
Koldo
0
w  ,pf,  c, Ih, I: j. I of The  C. I J 6.1r'                                                                                                      ".7
w-39men, n 'he 1,Jol  :I                                                                                                   t
GUINEA       -B ISSAU
G U I N E A



