                                               Document o f
                                           The WorldBank


                               '      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                                   Report No: 32236-W


                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ON A

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNTUS$30.0 MILLION

                                                 AND A

                                   PROPOSEDGRANTFROMTHE
                       GLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUST FUND

                              INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$7.0MILLION


                                                 TO THE

                               ORIENTALREPUBLICOFURUGUAY

                                                 FORAN

INTEGRATEDNATURAL RESOURCESAND BIODIVERSITYMANAGEMENTPROJECT

                                               May2,2005




Environmentallyand SociallySustainableDevelopment
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and the Caribbean RegionOffice



                                distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange RateEffective April 2005)


                         Currency Unit = UruguayanPeso
                             Ur$25.27 = US$1

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL     Adaptive Program Lending
AUSID   Uruguayan MinimumTillage Association
BCRU    Central Bankof Uruguay
BP      BankProcedures
BROU    Banco de laRepublica Oriental delUruguay
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBD     Convention on Biological Diversity
CQ      Consultant Qualifications criteria
DINAMA  National Environment Agency
DINOT   Directorate of Territorial Planning
DNH     National Hydrographical Directorate
DSA     Soils and Water Division
DWA     Direct Withdrawal Applications
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
ERL     Emergency Recovery Loan
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
F A 0   Food andAgriculture Organization
FMR     Financial ManagementReporting
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GIS     Geographic InformationSystem
GOU     Government of Uruguay
GPs     Good Practice statements
GPN     General ProcurementNotice
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICC     Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank
IERR    Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFAD    International Fundfor Agricultural Development
INIA    National InstituteofAgricultural Research
ISDS    Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
LCS     Least Cost Selection
M&E     Monitoring andEvaluation

                                                  FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
MDR     RuralDevelopmentCommittee
MGAP    Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries
MIS     ManagementInformation System
MTR     Mid-TermReview
MVOTMA  MinistryofHousing, Territorial PlanningandEnvironment
NBF     NonBank-Financed
NBS     National Biodiversity Strategy
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGOs    Non-GovernmentalOrganizations
NRM     Natural ResourcesManagement
O&M     OperationandMaintenance
OD      OperationalDirective
OP      OperationalPolicy
OPN     OperationalPolicyNote
OPP     Office of Planningand Budget
OPYPA   Office of Agricultural Planning and Policy
PAEFA   Foot and MouthDiseaseEmergencyRecoveryLoan
PCN     ProjectConceptNote
PDF     ProjectDevelopmentFacility
PEU     ProjectExecuting Unit
PIC     Public InformationCenter
PID     Project Information Document
POA     Annual OperatingPlan
POPS     PersistentOrganic Pollutants
PRENADER NaturalResources Managementand Irrigation DevelopmentProject
QBS      Quality BasedSelection
QCBS     Quality and Cost BasedSelection
RENARE   GeneralOffice for RenewableNatural Resources
RVP      RegionalVice Presidency
SAL      StructuralAdjustment Loan
SFB      FixedBudget Selection
SOEs     Statements ofExpenditures
SSAL     SpecialStructuralAdjustment Loan
STAP     Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
TA       TechnicalAssistance
TC       Account Court
TCP      FA0Technical CooperationProject
UNDP     UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
UNEP     UnitedNations Environmental Program
UNFCCC   UnitedNationsFramework Convention on Climate Change
UY       Oriental Republic of Uruguay

                        Vice President:     PamelaCox                    1


            Country Managermirector:        Axel van Trotsenburg
                        Sector Manager:      JohnRedwood
                    Task Team Leader:        Michael G. Carroll


                                                          URUGUAY
          IntegratedNaturalResources andBiodiversityManagementProject

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................  1
 1. Country and sector issues             .................................................................................................... 1
 2.  Rationale for Bankinvolvement                    .........................................................................................   4
 3.  Global Program objective addressedby the Project ...........................................................                                 4

B.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................   5
 1.  Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................               5
 2.  [IfApplicable] Program objective andPhases....................................................................                               5
 3.  Project development objective andkey indicators                               .............................................................. 5
 4.  Project components          ..............................................................................................................   6
 5.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                8
 6.  Alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection..............................................................                                 9

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................      10
  1. Partnership arrangements(ifapplicable) ..........................................................................                            10
 2 . Institutionaland implementation arrangements                              ................................................................   10
 3 . Monitoringandevaluation of outcomeshesults                                ................................................................   11
 4 . Sustainability andReplicability........................................................................................                      11
  5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects.,.............................................................                              12
  6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                           13

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                          .................................................................................................     13
  1. Economic and financial analyses                    ......................................................................................    13
  2. Technical...........................................................................................................................         14
  3. Institutional   .......................................................................................................................      15
  4. Social.................................................................................................................................      17
  5. Environment......................................................................................................................            17
  6. Safeguard policies .............................................................................................................             18
  7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness                     ......................................................................................    18

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                        .........................................................  19

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                             .................26
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                              ........................................................................       28

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription                  ......................................................................................        36

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                        .................................................................................       44

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                                    .....................................   46

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements                     ......................................................................................        50

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                          .............................................................................       56

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues                ............................................................................................        59

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Superyjsion                              .....................................................................       63

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                       .................................................................................        64

Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits                         ..............................................................................        65

Annex 14: IncrementalCost Analysis                   .......................................................................................        66

Annex 15: STAP RosterReview                ................................................................................................         72

Annex 16: Countryat a Glance              .................................................................................................         80

Annex 17: Maps ...........................................................................................................................          82

                                      URUGUAY
           IntegratedNaturalResources and Biodiversity Management Project

                            Project AppraisalDocument

                          LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                        LCSER

Date: May 12,2005                          TeamLeader: Michael G.Carroll
Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg      Sectors: Agricultural extension andresearch
Sector Managermirector: JohnRedwood         (20%);Animal production (20Yo);Irrigation and
Project ID: PO70653                        drainage (20%);Forestry (20%);Sub-national
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan government administration (20%)
                                           Themes: Other rural development (P);Other
                                            environment andnatural resources
                                            management(P)
                                            Environmental screeningcategory: Partial
                                            Assessment
                                            Safeguard screeningcategory: No impact
Global Supplemental ID: PO77676             Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll
Lending I&hument: Specific Investment Loan Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
Focal Area: B-Biodiversity                  forestry sector (70%);Agricultural marketing
SupplementFully Blended?: Yes               andtrade (20%);Sub-na
                                            Themes: Biodiversity (P);Other environment
                                            andnaturalresourcesmanagement(P);Climate




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bankfinancing (US$m.): 30.00
Total GEF financing (US$m.): 7.00
Proposedterms: FSL

Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Colonia 1089, Piso 3
Montevideo
Uruguay
11100
Tel: 5982-902-0863 Fax: 5982-902-1277

ResponsibleAgency:
MinstryofAgriculture, Livestock andFisheries



                          Estimateddisbursements(BankF'Y/US%m)
'Y         I 2005 I     2006 I 2007 I       2008 I 2009 I 2010 I             I      I
4nnual          0.50     4.00     8.00       8.00      5.50      4.00
2umulative      0.50     4.50     12.50     20.50     26.00     30.00




Project implementation period: 6 years, from mid-calendar year 2005 to 2011.
Expected effectiveness date: September 1,2005
Expected closing date: August 31,2011
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PADA.3                                                                    [          No

Does the projectrequire any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ P U -0.-7
Have these beenapproved by Bankmanagement?
I s approval for anypolicy exception sought from the Board?                   [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                   [XIYes [ ]No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                   [XIYes [ No

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
To promote, mainly among groups o f small and medium-sized fanners, the adoption of
economically and environmentally viable integrated productionsystems within a context of
holistic ecosystem andnatural resourcesmanagement, while mainstreaming biodiversity.

Global Environment objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
To promote increasedunderstanding of role ofbiodiversity inagricultural landscapesand the
potential impact ofthe various landuse practices uponbiodiversity andtheir economic and
ecological "inability.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD BAa, Technical
Annex 4

Natural Resources and Biodiversity Management Component would finance demand-driven
activities to promote sustainable management o f natural resources and biodiversity.
Establishment o f Pilot Areas Component would establish demonstration areas withinthe selected
areas of GEF-interventions (grasslands andserranias), for sustainable use o f natural resources in
key micro-catchments. Support Services Component would develop support services that would
contribute to the efficient implementation o f Sub-projects financedunder the previous two
components. Project ExecutingUnit Component would guarantee a sound and efficient
management o fthe Project.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Environmental Assessment.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:


Loadcredit effectiveness:
Conditions o f effectiveness are  (a) the GEF Trust FundGrantAgreement has been executed
anddelivered andall conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right o fthe Borrower to
make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness o fthe LoanAgreement, have been
fulfilled; (b) the OperationalManual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the
Borrower; (c) the PEUhas been established and staffed as set forth inSection 3.04 of this
Agreement; and (d) the Borrower has established, andmade operational, financial management
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, andthe format for FMRs has been agreed with the Bank.


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. Country andsector issues

1. Key DevelopmentIssues. Uruguay is well endowed with naturalresources for livestock and
   agricultural production andthe combinationof the agriculture and agro-industry sectors represent up
  to 23 percent o f Uruguay's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). However, even this figure belies the
   combined importance ofthese two sectors to the economy as a whole; over halfof the output from the
   agriculture and agro-industry sectors is exported, and inthe early 2000s this produced over 70 percent
   o f Uruguay's total export earnings. For agriculture to continue its role o f supporting economic
   development, itmust increase even further its export focus, paying particular attentionto production
   specialization, quality improvement and processing; and to taking advantage of Uruguay's important
   advantages, such as its counter-seasonrelationship with the northernhemisphereand its capacity for
   natural, organic and "green" crop and livestock production.

2. The increase inagriculturalproduction must come from increasedproductivity as there is little scope
   for further land conversion and for long-term sustainability, it is essentialthat such intensification
   does not prejudice the natural resource base that supports it. There are encouraging signs that the
   erosion and degradation of soils causedby inappropriate cultural practices established halfa century
   ago have been significantly reduced over the past 20-30 years. The reduction inthe total cropped
   area has largely eliminatedthe cultivation ofthe marginal andvulnerable soils, and has been
   accompanied by the adoption of rotations (including plantedpastures) and agricultural practices (such
   as minimumand zero tillage) that significantly reduce erosion. However, inrecent years an increase
   insoybeancultivation isproviding short term benefitsto the rural economy butthreatening the
   natural resource base and especially biodiversity.

3. Increases in livestock production will come largely from increased productivity inUruguay's
   extensive beef production sector and from improved management o f naturalpastures, which form the
   basis o fthis productionsystem. While a reduction inthe size o fthe national sheep flock (from 26 to
   12million) duringthe 1990shas removedone o fthe mainthreats to naturalpastureso f over-grazing,
   the extensive beefproduction systemremains fragile and its long-term sustainability is still threatened
   by the risko fnaturalpasturedegradation.

4. Although land and pasture degradation has beenreduced over the past quarter century, many o fthe
   activities that make upthe current production systems present new environmentalchallenges that
   needto be addressedwithin a context o f sustainable development. A lack of profitability at the farm
   level could provoke an inappropriate and eventually detrimental use of naturalresources, to the extent
   that producers would be forced to lower their planninghorizon and place emphasis on the
   achievement o f immediate and short-term solutions to cash flow shortages. This is particularly true in
   the case ofthe extensive beef production sector, which uses 80% o fthe country's land, 70% o f which
   i s currently natural pasture. Additionally, biodiversity has seldom been considered by farmers as an
   integral element o ftheir production strategies. Uruguay must, therefore, develop strategies and
   mechanisms to exploit fully the attributes of its natural resources, such as its natural pastures, the
   potential for organic farming and sustainable use o f agricultural biodiversity, inthe pursuitof market
   opportunities presentedby increasingly aware and demanding consumers.

5. Significant changes have taken place also inthe way producers utilize and managewater resources in
   Uruguay. Reduced crop pressure on land and livestock pressure on naturalpastureshas been
   accompanied by a substantial expansion of irrigated agriculture, partially supported bythe Bank-
   financed Natural ResourcesManagement and Irrigation Development Project, PRENADER ,(Loan
   3697-UY) implementedbetween 1994and 2002. As pressure grows on available water resources, an



                                                      1

  expansion of irrigatedagriculture would have to be accompanied by improved efficiency o f water use
  and management inthe agricultural sector that will require a broadrange of initiatives, from
   consolidating existing irrigation investment, increasing investment in irrigation technology and
   improvingwater quality for proper managemento f livestock-related effluents through to establishing
  more systematic systems o f groundwater monitoring.

6. Besides the potential of makingnatural products and following an integrated systems approach, the
   additional possibility of biodiversity conservation consistent with such a use of naturalresources
   offers many further opportunities for rural economic activities. The conservation and management of
   biodiversity requires the establishment o f a framework o f incentives to private landowners to promote
   land-use practices that exploit the synergy between conservation andthe new opportunities for rural
   income generation.

7. Due to its location inthe confluence ofthe Amazonian and Chaco domains, Uruguay's biodiversity
   has global significance, containingmosaic-like habitats dominated by grasslands and interspersed
   with marshes, spinywoodland ("espinal"),      gallery forest, and bodies of standing water ("esteros").
   Because of its comparatively small size, its relatively smooth topography and absenceof major
   geographic disturbances, the country tends to be uniform from a biological viewpoint, compared to
   other countries inthe Neo-tropical region. The grasslandecosystem ("pastizal") is the most
   representative area o fthe country and this occurs alongside periodically-inundatedand interspersed
   marshes, espinal, gallery forest, and esteros.

8. The specific habitats present inUruguay do not occur in isolation from each other but are
   interspersed, with a series of localized geographic features including rocks, hills, small ravines and a
   highly-branchedhydrological network; it i s this "mosaic" pattern that defines the uniquenessand
   importance o fthe eco-region from a biodiversity perspective and, under natural conditions, allows it
   to maintain its speciesdiversity. The main eco-systemspresentinthe country are:

   0   Savanna, which covers about 14.0 million hectares, or about 80% oftotal landand includes a
       heterogeneousherbaceouscommunity o f 2000 species, of which around 400 are gramineae, the
       diversity ofwhich is determined bythe relative complexity ofthe soils. The savanna also
       supports various legumes with importance from a rangemanagement perspectives, as well as
       shrubs.
   0   Native Forests, which cover around 0.6 million hectares (3.5% o ftotal) and include various
       distinct types, among them gallery forests (along rivers and other water courses), ravine forests
       (which appear inpatches and benefit from specific micro-climate conditions), "Bosque Serrano",
       palmforests (including the important and endemic "ButiaYyassociation covering 70,000 ha),
       "monte de parque", "algarrobal", and litoral spiny forests ("monte espinoso del litoral").
   0   Wetlands, which are primarily located inthe south-east, especially inthe LagunaMerin
       watershed and the coast o fRocha and cover more than 1.O million hectares.
   0   Coastal Ecosystems, which are productive andhave an important associatedwildlife. They occur
       along the two maincoasts o f the country, the River Plate coast (460 km) and the Atlantic coast
       (220 km).

9. Within this rich biodiversity, livestock production (primarily cattle and sheep) has developed and
   beenthe mainpillar o fthe rural economy for several hundredyears. Fromthe beginning, livestock
   production was basedon the use o f natural pastures, at first extensively but gradually with increasing
   intensity, includingenclosure with fencing inthe 19thcentury and significant attempts to improve
   grazing capacity in the latter half o f the 20th century through the use o f fertilizers, exotic pasture
   species, drinkingwater storage and electric fencing. The original savanna ecosystem with associated



                                                      2

    forests has thus been heavily altered and, with it,the natural features o f the landscapehave changed
    substantially.

10. Although less than 1%ofthe soils are affected by severe soil erosion, the combination of severe and
    moderate soil erosion, that affects about 10% ofthe area, has had some impact on natural habitats. Of
   the 16 million hectaresthat are appropriate for livestock and agriculture production, around 70
    percent i s still under naturalpastures. These naturalpasturesare ina vulnerable condition becauseo f
    fragmentationthat results inisolated plant populations andthreatens the fauna associatedwiththese
    native grasslands. Someherbaceousvegetation, mainly gramineae and some Ieguminosaeare
    currently suffering from habitat isolation and land use changes.

11.`There i s growing recognitionthat expandedproduction and increased productivity inthe livestock
    and agriculture sub-sectors mustbe compatible with the protection and conservation ofthe natural
    resources. Moreover, the Government of Uruguay recognizes that the public sector has an important
    role to play inthe promotion of sustainablerural development through the provision of a supportive
    framework of public goods, and an incentive structure that would encourage the private sector to
    identifyand exploit the opportunities madeavailable by world markets. The success of government
    policies to promote irrigation development and to expand commercial forestry over the past fifteen
    years are good examples to buildon and replicate.

12. As part of its natural resources conservation strategy, the GOU i s combining its activities to
    strengthen its ProtectedArea System, with conservation efforts outside the 31protected areas. The
    ecological characteristics ofthe country favor this type o f approach, given the synergies that can be
    found between existing ecosystems and the generation o f rural income opportunities, and the
    resilience and restoration potential of Uruguay's ecosystems. The key concept to achieve biodiversity
    conservation outside Uruguay's system of protected areas would be the promotion o f biodiversity-
    compatible, multiple land-use practices, within a landscapeapproach. Under this approach, it is
    possible to promote the adoption o f land-use practices that exploit the synergies that exist between
    biodiversity conservation and opportunities for rural income generation.

13. Government Commitment. By the request ofthe government, in2002 the Bank prepared a sector
    review to analyze the main issuesrelated to naturalresourcesmanagement inUruguay (Uruguay: the
    Rural Sector and Natural Resources, Report No. 24409-UR). Based onthis review, the Ministryof
    Agriculture, with the agreemento f the Ministryo f Economy and OPP, requested World Bank
    technical and financial assistancefor the preparation and execution of the proposed NaturalResources
    and Biodiversity Management Project. Furthermore, during2003, the local preparation team, with
    the assistance o f an FA0 Technical Cooperation Project (TCP/URU/OI67: Preparacidn de un
    Proyecto de Manejo Integral de 10s RecursosAguas y Suelos),prepared background information and
    a preliminary proposalfor apossible naturalresourcesmanagement project. To acceleratethe project
    preparation process, the Ministryof Livestock created an ad-hoc Commissionto coordinate
    preparation work and ensure coordination of the proposed project activities and those currently being
    executed under other programs o f the MGAP. Finally, with the financial assistanceo f a GEF PDF
    Block B Grant, the Ministry of Agriculture provided a comprehensive analysis ofthe status and
    trends o f agricultural biodiversity andoftheir underlyingthreats; and submittedproposals for
    mainstreaming biodiversity inon-farm investment projectsto improve naturalresourcesmanagement
    and strengthening the capacities of farmers andtheir organizations as well as localand central
    authorities to manage agricultural biodiversity. Uruguay ratifiedthe Convention on Biological
    Diversity (CBD) on May 11, 1993 Incompliance with art. 6 o f the CBD, the National Biodiversity
    Strategy (NBS), was prepared during 1998 and 1999 (Project URU/96/G31) by the National
    EnvironmentAgency (Comisidn Nacional deMedioAmbiente, DINAMA), with financial support
    from the GEF. The UruguayanN B S was publishedand officially presented by the Ministryo f


                                                       3

   Housing, Territorial Planningand Environment(Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorialy
   Medio Ambiente, M V O T M ) on December 29, 1999, and submittedto the CBD Secretariat. The
    GOUsees the present project as ameansto provide support to Uruguay's commitments to advance in
   the areao f biodiversity conservation, as agreed duringthe recent Conference of the Parties carried out
    inMalaysia(February 2004).

14. The new administration, which took office inMarch 2005, has expressedits commitment to
    supportingthe sustainable managementof natural resourcesandbiodiversity by providing assistance
    to producers, with emphasis on small and medium size farmers. The administrationhas ratifiedthe
    overall project rationale, objectives and components.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

15. The Government of Uruguay and the World Bank have collaborated for more than fifty years inthe
    development o fthe agricultural sector. Most of this effort was directed towards the productive
    aspects o f agriculture, but duringthe past decade a broader approach has been adopted inthe rural
    areas. Inparticular, there has been an increasedemphasis on environmentalissues and on the
    achievement o f long-term sustainable production systems, mainly through improvednaturalresources
    management. Lessons learned from the recently completed Bank-financedproject (Loan 3697-UR)
    and the conclusions of the NRMSector Work completed in2002, indicate that any future operation in
    the agricultural sector in Uruguay should go beyond irrigatedagriculture and dairy production and
    include natural resourcesmanagement inthe extensive livestock and crop production sub-sectorsas
    well as the conservation andmanagementofbiodiversity inthe productive landscape. The long
    standing collaboration with Government inthe country's agricultural development andthe recent
    experience with the implementationo fthe PRENADERand the Foot and Mouth Emergency Projects,
    plusthe Bank's experience with GEF-financed biodiversity projectsthroughout Latin America, would
    make the Bank a privilegedpartner to support Government efforts to improve natural resources and
    biodiversity management. The main purpose o f the 2002 CAS was to define the best strategy for the
    Bank to assist the UruguayanGovernment to deal with the economic and financial crisis that was
    affecting the country that year. Consequently, its conclusions and recommendations are not directly
    relevant for investment project lending.

3. GlobalProgramobjectiveaddressedby the Project

16. The proposed fully blendedproject, which would be partially financed by GEF resources, is
    consistent with the Biodiversity Strategic Priority of MainstreamingBiodiversity inProduction
    Landscapesand as such would aim at developing systemic and institutionalcapacities of government
    agenciesand other stakeholders and management procedures, disseminate relevant knowledge, and
    promote partnership buildingbetween agencies, local communities andthe private sector that secure
    biodiversity conservation. The promotion o f better practices inwhich natural resource management
    would be enhanced, incorporating biodiversity into the production matrix, would be evaluated in
    terms ofthe country's area under sustainable use, the number o f species and habitats conserved and
    the economic value ofbiodiversity for the rural sector.




                                                      4

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

17. The project would be a Specific InvestmentLoan, fully blendedwith a GEF Grant.

2. [IfApplicable]ProgramobjectiveandPhases

18. NIA

3. Projectdevelopmentobjective and key indicators

19. The proposedBank/GEF blended projectwould assistthe Government inits efforts to promote the
    adoption of economically and environmentallyviable integratedproduction systems among small-
    and medium-sized farmers and livestock producers. Within the context of a holistic ecosystemand
    natural resourcesmanagementapproach, the project would improve natural resourcesmanagement
    and conservation of soils, water and rangelands, while increasing productivity and mainstreaming
    biodiversity conservation inproducers' investment and production decisions. Thiswould ensure the
    economic andenvironmental sustainability of agricultural and livestock development. Within this
    integrated production system approach, the project also aims to promote increased understanding of
    the role of biodiversity in agricultural landscapesand the potential impact o f the various land use
    practices upon biodiversity and their economic and ecological sustainability.

20, The Project wouldprovide financial incentives on a matching-grant basis and technicalassistanceto
    medium- and small-sized farmers, with emphasis on proposals made by groups offarmers, to invest
    insustainableagriculturalandlivestock productionpractices integratedwith measuresto conserve
    biodiversity. This would ensurethe conservation and sustainableuse of natural resources and
    biodiversity, as well as consolidating and expanding existing productive investments, particularly in
    the irrigation infrastructure.

21. While the proposed projectwould be carriedout nation-wide, GEF-fundingwould be available only
    for the savannaand native forest ecosystems, with special emphasis ontwo key geographical areas,
    one inthe north andthe other inthe east ofthe country. The "quebrudas" inthese areas representthe
    last remaining areas of native vegetation associatedwith springs and water courses.

22. The project would strengthenthe Ministryo f Agriculture's overall natural resource management
    capabilities through training o f staff and expanding the Geographical Information Systemand related
    natural resourcemanagementtools. Additionally, the project would support an institutionalcapacity
    buildingprogramat the central and regional level inorder to help develop and implementnational
    strategiesfor the conservation and sustainable use of agricultural biodiversity and to promote their
    mainstreaming and integrationin sectoral development programs.

23. Projectglobalenvironment objective and key indicators. While the integrated production systems
    inagriculturalandlivestocklandscapeswould beapplied atthe national level, integrated systems in
    key biodiversity areas would be supported by the GEF component, with support being provided to
    finance the incremental costs of project interventions.

24, The promotion ofpractices to improve naturalresource management and incorporatebiodiversity into
    farmers' production matrices, would be evaluated interms o fthe areaunder sustainable use, the
    number of speciesandhabitats conserved andthe economic value of biodiversity for the rural sector.
    Key performance indicators would include areas under improvedpasture management techniques;
    areas under sustainableuse o f natural resources; number of biodiversity-friendly projects


                                                      5

    implemented; number of farmers adopting innovativemarket incentives, such as certification and
   easement implementation; andnumber of species and/or populationsunder conservation. The
   methodology for the definition of the respective baselines and the establishment of key project
   performance indicatorswere agreed during appraisal preparation. The list of performance indicators
   to be usedwill be presentedat negotiations.

25. The Project's overall objective would be achieved by providing technical and financial assistanceto
    farmers to develop and implementappropriate technologies for increasing the productivity of
    agricultural and livestock systems while: ensuringbiodiversity conservation; promotingthe adoption
    of cultural practices to conserve soils; reducingthe impact of grazing; reducingthe riskof erosionand
    enhancing the efficient use o f water resources; understandingthe carbon sequestrationpotential o f
    various land-use practices; and delineating a strategy to promote carbon sequestration inUruguay's
    productive landscapes. The mainproject instrumentwould bethe implementationof demand-driven
    subprojects that would be complemented by a series of supportingactivities such as: technical
    assistance; training aimed at raising awareness o f naturalresources and biodiversity conservation;
    management inthe productive sectors; and building institutional and landowners' capacity for holistic
    management o f naturalresourcesthat integrates biodiversity conservation into productive landscapes.

26. These biodiversity conservation and managementactivities are consistent with the guidelines of the
    GEF's Biodiversity Operational Program 13: Conservation and SustainableUse ofBiological
    Diversity Important to Agriculture. The biodiversitycomponent focuses on managedecosystemsand
    biological habitats that provide a broad range of goods and services important to human development
    and the global environment, as well as on maintainingdiverse farming systems and conserving
    biodiversity inagricultural landscapes. This strategy would promote positive impacts and at the same
    time mitigate the negative impacts of agricultural systems and practices on biological diversity in
    agro-ecosystems and their interface with other ecosystems. Itwould also promote the conservation
    and sustainable use of genetic resources. These activities would contributeto the objectives o fthe
    CBD in the area of agricultural biological diversity, thus providing significant means for improving
    living conditions inrural areas while increasing productivity o f biological and rural resources. The
    projectwould achieve these goals by providing technical and financial assistanceto local producers in
    Uruguay and creatingdemonstration pilot areas to address constraints that are currently preventing
    the introduction, dissemination and widespread use of ecologically sound and socially responsible
    management concepts, which have good prospects for sustainable, multiplefocal areabenefits. The
    Uruguayan Government, through this fully blendedWorld BanWGEF-financedproject, intendsto
    create a management systemthat could be replicated inother areas of the country andthe regionto
    generate multiple local areabenefits and to enhancethe potential o f the rural landscape. Therefore,
    the project includes systematic reviews of experience gained, documentation o f good practices, and
    dissemination o f lessons learned and know-how. The project would also develop local capacity for
    the monitoringofcarbon sequestrationandbalance.

4. Projectcomponents

27. Total project costs have been estimated at about US$96.0, which would be financed through a Bank
     loan of US$30.0 millionblendedwith a GEF Grant ofUS$7.0 million, Government counterpart funds
    o f about US$3.0 million, and beneficiaries' contributions o f about US$ 56.0 million. The project
    would finance four main components as follows:




                                                      6

                          1
   3        I
   32

  :rl       I          I



   rl




   0
   9        -
            3
            t          n

    e.                 2
  II        N




  II
   9
   d



   zm       I .
                  2    3
                       2
     Do




            I          0
e:                     39
                       H




     C'I
    -?                 W

     CI
    m                  2

            0
            L?
            n

5. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design

28. Key lessons learned from implementationof natural resources managementprojects ingeneral, and
    the PRENADERProject inparticular, include:

    0   The importance of adequately targeted Government incentives when promoting irrigation
        development and production diversification into high-value export crops. (Andthis is particularly
        ina country, suchas that inUruguay, that hastraditionally beendominated by extensive
        agriculhre and livestock production.

    0   Ina country where extensive agricultural and livestockproduction arepredominant, natural
        resourcesmanagement programs should address, inan integrated manner, issues relatedto soil,
        water, pasture management and conservation and sustainableuse of biodiversity.

    0   The projectwas successful inpromoting sustainableagricultural practices among small farmers,
        through a micro-catchment approach inareas of intensive agriculture, and demonstrated the
        importance o fthe participatory approach and farmers' organizations for achieving a successful
        natural resources management program. Through adequatemonitoring and evaluation of results,
        pilot experiences can establishthe foundations for a scaled-up nationwide program.

    0   Inorder to maximize the impact and sustainability offinancial incentives that promote the
        expansion o f privately-owned irrigation infrastructure, procurement should encouragebeneficiary
        ownership and reduce, or eliminate, reliance on public institutions for operationand maintenance
        (O&M).

    0   Continuity o f TA services beyondthe duration of the project i s essential for achieving long-term
        impacts and sustainable investments.

    0   Inaddition to agronomists, the establishment ofprofessional teams for the delivery of extension
        services inprograms relatedto Natural ResourcesManagement (specifically sociologists,
        engineers and economists) enables a project to be better preparedto respond to multiple demands
        ofproducers.


    0   The incorporationofprivate organizations inthe implementationof appliedresearchprograms (as
        inthe case ofAUSID) increasesthe possibilities ofcollaborationbetweenresearchers,producers,
        extension specialists, and local institutions, and consequently provides an effective synergism and
        potentially higher adoptionrates. Adequate beneficiary ownership and participationi s also
        instrumental to the effective implementation of government programs aimed at promoting
        diversification and exports o fnon-traditional products.

    0   A holistic approach is key to developing sustainable agricultural production systems among small
        farmers. Such an approach should include elements relevant to increasingcompetitiveness o f
        production, beyond mere productivity, such as awarenesso f commercial opportunities, product
        quality, certification and integrationwith commerce and with agro-industry to promote joint
        actions by producers

29. General lessons learned from other related GEF projects are:

    0   Innovative financing and support mechanisms are neededfor the long-term c,onservationof
        biodiversity, especially outside protected areas.



                                                       8

        The true root causesof biodiversity losses mustbe addressed, such as the social and political
        aspectsas inthe case of Uruguay where biodiversity i s the main productive landscape but not
        appropriately incorporated into the productive matrix.
        The necessarymechanismsshould beprovidedto avoidthe tendency for biodiversityto be a
        stand alone activity and to promote its inclusion into the country's economic development plans
        and strategies.
        The sustainability ofthe proposed approach, once the GEF financial support i s finished, needsto
        be guaranteed, thus providing ways for the continuation of sound practices for biodiversity
        conservation.
        Interventions should be basedon conservation of sites and ecosystems, rather thanon single
        species, thus providing alternatives for in situ conservation o f globally important species.
        Capacity buildingat the local and regional level is essentialto providethe necessaryskills and
        knowledge not only to promote biodiversity conservation but also to ensure that an adequate legal
        and policy framework is in place.
        Stakeholders' participationshould be promotedfrom the very beginningof the project's
        conception. Duringproject preparation, all issues related to biodiversity conservation and
        management should be raised and a sense of ownership must be created.
        Biodiversity projects should adopt a holistic approachto the protection of biodiversity of global
        importance, such as landdegradation, forest conservation, and freshwater management
        combining global benefits from individual focal area projects.
        The private sector should be incorporated into biodiversity management, especially outside
        protected areas where, as inthe case of Uruguay, the conservation of biodiversity i s inprivate
        hands.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

30. The initial ideawas to propose a project to reactivate the sector following the economic crises that
    affected the country inthe early 2000s. Such a project would have been strictly production-oriented
   to promote increased agricultural and livestock production, including some activities to promote
    improved naturalresources management, combinedwith a stand-alone GEF Project for biodiversity
    conservation and management.

31, Recent performance of the agriculture sector, however, indicatedthat, ingeneral terms, the sector was
    reactingpositively to market signals and did not require special assistanceto increasegrowth. There
    was, nevertheless, an underlyingthreat that, if special incentives and technical assistance were not
    given to farmers, there was a real danger that highrates of growth inagricultural and livestock
    production would be achieved at the expenseo fthe country's natural resource base.

32. The alternative of preparing a repeater PRENADER project, which would have benefited from a
    shorter preparation and processing period, was considered but rejected infavor of an integrated
    natural resourcesand biodiversity managementproject.

33, Lessons learned from the implementationof other GEF-financed biodiversity conservation and
    management projects inLatinAmerica, indicatedthat projects' impacts on biodiversity conservation
    were greatly enhancedwhen they were fully blended with Bank-financed naturalresources
    management projects. Moreover, as inother countries, even ifUruguay allocated 10-15% o f its
    territory under some sort of protection (which i s very expensive and may be not applicable for
    Uruguay), this would not be sufficient to maintain large-scale ecological processes and to ensure
    sustainable biodiversity conservation over the longterm. Consequently, and also inthe light o fthe
    conclusions ofthe ESW and Bank experience with other naturalresources andbiodiversity



                                                       9

    conservation and managementprojects, it was decided to opt for a project that would concentrate on
    promoting improved natural resourcesmanagement and mainstream agricultural biodiversitythrough
    support to integrated on-farm naturalresourcesmanagement plans.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)

34. NIA

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

35. The overall responsibility for the management of the Project will rest with the Ministry of Livestock,
    Agriculture and Fisheries (Ministerio de Ganaderia,Agricultura y Pesca, MGAP). An Inter-
    ministerial Coordination Committee (ICC), ledby the Ministerof Livestock, Agriculture andFishery
    and including the Ministerof Housing, Territorial Planning andEnvironment (Ministerio de Vivienda,
    Ordenamiento Territorialy Medio Ambiente, W O T M ) ,and the Director of the Office of Planning
    and Budget(OJicinade Planeamientoy Presupuesto,OPP), will be createdto coordinate project
    activities with other MGAP programs, define the policy framework withinwhich project
    implementation will take place, and discussmain policy and budget issues relatedto the project. The
    representative of the Ministerof MVOTMA would be an official from its NationalEnvironment
    Division(Diieccidn Nacional del Medio Ambiente, DINAM).

36. The Project would provide financial incentives on a matching-grant basis andtechnical assistanceto
    medium- and small sized farmers, with emphasis on proposals made by groups of farmers, to invest in
    sustainable agricultural and livestock production practices integrated with measuresto conserve
    biodiversity. This should ensurethe conservation and sustainable use of natural resourcesincluding
    biodiversity, as well as consolidating and expanding existingproductive investments, particularly in
    the irrigation infrastructure.

37. Inthe overall managemento f the project, MGAP will be assistedby a Project ExecutingUnit (PEU)
    that would partly integrate the existing Project Unitsof the PRENADER and PAEFA projects, to
    benefitfrom their experience inimplementingBank-financedprojects. The PEUwill assume
    responsibility for the overall coordination o f the proposed project activities and carry out project
    management functions, including all aspectso f the sub-projects cycle, M&E, financial management,
    and overall reporting and coordinationwiththe Bank. The PEUwould report directly to the Minister
    and would be assistedbythe RenewableNatural ResourcesDivision ofMGAP (Direccidn General
    de RecursosNaturales Renovables,RENARE) and its regional offices.

38. After the formal launchingof the project, the PEUwould implement the project dissemination and
    promotion program, with the participationof RENAREand its regional offices; the RegionalOffices
    of the MGAP; DINAMA; DINOT; local governments; and local organizations, such as cooperative
    farmers organizations andrural development commissions.

39. The preparation and execution of investment proposals to be financed by the project will be the
    responsibility o f beneficiaries, for which they will receive specialized technical assistance, partly
    financed by the project. Beneficiarieswould be able to submit their proposals either to the regional
    offices o f RENAREor directly to the PEU. Sub-projects will bereviewed inthe first instance by
    RENARE's Regional Offices andthen submittedto the PEUfor final evaluationand approval.




                                                       10

 40. The operationaland financial flows of the subprojectcycle are presented inAnnexes 6 and 7
    respectively. Details of proceduresand implementationarrangementswill be includedinthe Project
     OperationalManual.

 3. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomeshesults

 41, A project monitoring and evaluation systemwould be developedduringthe first semester of project
     execution. The system, which would be managedby the PEU, would use a comprehensivelist of
     indicatorsfor performance,result, and impact ofthe project. The full list of indicators, as well as the
     frequency of monitoringandthe contentsand frequencyof evaluationreports, would be agreed upon
     during negotiations. The baselinewould be developedduring the first year ofproject execution.

 42. Given the demand-drivennatureofthe project andthe strongstakeholderparticipation inthe adoption
     of sound practicesinnaturalresourcesmanagement, the project would employ an adaptive
     management framework characterizedby regularmonitoring and concurrentevaluation, a
     comprehensivemid-termreview, and a final assessment. Regularmonitoring would be the
     responsibility ofthe,PEU, which would prepare semi-annualreportson implementationprogress.
     These reportswould includeprogress achievedvis-his the OperationalManual's timetable for the
     various project activities, the ProcurementPlanand schedule, and agreed Annual OperationPlans
     (POA). The outputs of the M&E System, as will be indicatedinthe OperationManual, would be
     usedto assess the performanceofthe various project components andsuggest improvementsand
     changes whenever necessary. An annualreport would be preparedindicating project achievements,
     experiences, problemsand lessons learnedduring the previous year.

 43. Evaluationswould be carriedout at mid-term and at the end ofthe project. These evaluationswould
     be the responsibility ofthe PEU, with the assistance of independentconsultants. The Mid-Term
     Review (MTR) would be carriedout by September 2008. The project would support areview
     workshop and ImplementationCompletionReport stakeholdermeeting, wherein all participating
     parties (farmers, farmers associations, academia, NGOs and governmentalagencies) would
     participateto review andassess the project's findings and developa post-projectsustainabilityplan.

 4. Sustainabilityand Replicability

 44. This newly developedapproachinthe rural landscapeofUruguay would develop and promote
     modifications to "business as usual" without changingthe productive context but, rather, promoting
     improvedpracticesfor naturalresource management and incorporatingbiodiversity into this sector. It
     would provide, bringing country-driven information, advisory, technical and extensionservices and
     would draw specialattentionto viable farming and silvo-pastoralpracticesthat promote conservation
     and sustainable use biodiversity inthe agricultural landscape. Itwould promotethe identification and
     developmentof new marketing and business opportunitiesfor more diversified production systems,
     including eco-friendly produce, and would create a sense of "ownership" ofnative biodiversity
     among private landowners. Inturn, itwould establishthe humanand institutional capacity to
     independentlydevelop sustainablesolutions to agro-silvo-pastoral initiatives after the project has

I    finished. Incrementalcosts for this improved way of doing business and for mainstreaming
     biodiversity into the rural landscapewould be coveredby the GEF. The sustainability would also be
     demonstrated by the demandfor investmentsinwhich farmers would have to contribute partially
     refundablecapital. Though thisproject is basedupona land-use strategy furtherresearchmay
     demonstrate further national opportunities(for instanceeasements are already consideredinthe legal
     framework) or may provide further international funding for biodiversity conservation.




                                                     11

45. Demonstration areas inmicro-watersheds of importance to biodiversity would be developedjointly
    with small- andmedium-sized local farmers. These demonstration pilot projects would remain in
    place after project completion, giventhat farmers would be the owners and the proponents of these
    activities inpartnership.

46. Replicability. As a locally-based set of initiatives, implementedby the demand and interest of small-
    and medium-sized farmers inpreviously definedkey areas inUruguay, the project would only be able
    to invest in some of these sites while the entire project would be carried out at the national level. This
    indicates the potential opportunities for replication of biodiversity initiatives. The ecosystems of
    Uruguay's naturalhabitats consist mainly of interspersed savannas and forests, wetlands andhilly
    tracts o f lands which continue into neighboringBrazil and Argentina. There is a strong possibility
    that this project could be used for replicationunitsnot only within Uruguay but also outside the
    country where a similar type o f habitat combinationmay be found. Evenwithout a similar
    combination o f habitat types, the mainstreaming of biodiversity inthe rural sector and the value
    addedto rural land production based on sound practices may be replicatedelsewherewith a strong
    communications scheme as planned inthe project. The academic sector andcivil society
    organizations would be key elementsto disseminate and implement the lessonsderivedfrom this
    initiative.

5. Critical risks and possiblecontroversialaspects

7 Rating          Cause                                                   Mitination
L,ackof counterpart funds will delay      Low              Ifeconomic recoverycontinues at its
implementation.                                            present rate, there is likelyto be a
                                                           sound fiscal situation duringproject
                                                           implementation. Strong government
                                                           commitment and higher Bank
                                                           financing should also help.

Lack o f central governmental             Low              Creation o f local and regional
commitment to establishing the                             constituencies for biodiversity
necessary and appropriate                                  conservation and eco-region
institutionalframework for                                 consolidation. Creationof alliances
biodiversity conservation and                              with the private sector, civil society
promotion of sustainable use o f                           organizations and the academiato
natural resources.                                         support the Government.

                                          Moderate         Strong communication campaign,
                                                           extension work, technical assistance,
investinnaturalresources                                   and training for producersplus
management.                                                financial incentives should generate
                                        I                  demand.




                                                       12

I  C      a    u   s  e                      Ratinn                     Mitigation
 Non-conventional rural components Moderate               Integrated EnvironmentalMonitoring,
 such as biodiversity are difficult to                    biodiversity management intervention
 implement and not seen by farmers                        support, community training and
 as economic opportunities.                               demonstration projects on natural
                                                          resources sustainableuse.
 Investment in the agricultural sector Moderate           The recent recovery of agricultural
 has been low as a result of the                          growth would indicate that the
 economic crisis; therefore, demand                       investment environment is improving
 for financial and technical assistance                   inthe sector andthat thisriskhasbeen
 underthe project will be low.                            minimizedto a larne extent.
 Institutional capacity for project High                  Intensivetraining and capacity
 execution i s weak, particularly on                      buildingat local, regional and central
 biodiversity-related activities.                         (UEP) levels will minimize this risk.

 Macroeconomic and fiscal policies Low                    Recent economic recovery indicates
 are not       in place to     stimulate                  that the correct macro-economic
 economic opportunities being created                     policies are inplace. Biodiversity
 in key        areas for    biodiversity                  conservation and management sub-
 conservation.                                            projects will demonstrate their
                                                          economic and financial viability.
 Local communities and regional Low                       Capacity buildingat the governmental
 authorities do not participate fully in                  and community levels, with
 the establishment and management                         standardization and control, and
 o f initiatives.                                         environmental technical assistance.
                                                          PRENADERexperience demonstrated
                                                          the viability and effectiveness of
                                                          participatory approach.

 6. Loadcredit conditionsand covenants

 47. The Preparation of the final draft of the project's Operational Manualwas completed as a condition o f
      negotiations.

 48. Conditions o f effectiveness are: (a) the GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement has been executed and
      deliveredand all conditions precedentto its effectiveness or to the right o fthe Borrower to make
      withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness o f the LoanAgreement, have been fulfilled; (b)
      the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the Borrower; (c) the PEU has
      beenestablished and staffed as set forth inSection 3.04 o fthis Agreement; and(d) the Borrower has
      established, and made operational, financial management arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, and
      the format for FMRs has been agreed with the Bank.

 D. APPRAISALSUMMARY
  1. Economicand financialanalyses

 49. Giventhe demand-driven nature of activities to be executed under the project,, it is not possible to
      determine apriori the exact composition ofthe portfolio o f investment sub-projects that will be
      financed underthe project. Consaquently, as only activities identified and presented by potential
      beneficiaries would be considered, an ex-ante determinationof costs and benefits o f productive



                                                       13

    investments would not be feasible. Therefore, economic return estimateswere based only on a
    sample o f investment sub-projects likely to be demandedby beneficiaries, followingthe experience
    of PRENADER. The impact of these investments on natural resourcesand biodiversity management,
    agricultural productivity and farmers' income was analyzed with the help of farm models illustrative
    of typical farming situations inthe main agro-ecological zones, and situations inwhich biodiversity
    was mainstreamed into the farmer's investment decisions. Assumptions regardingyield increasesare
    conservative to reflect the risk-minimizing production strategies that normally characterize farmers.
    The return ofthe project is estimated at about 22.5%. Although the estimated rate of returntook into
    consideration only part, albeit a substantial part, ofthe possible investments to be financed under the
    project, i s presentedhere inorder to give an estimate of the order of magnitudeo fthe economic
    returns that can be expected from the proposed project.

50. Economic returncalculations includedthe cost of incremental on-farm productive investment and
    recurrent expenditure for the adoption o f sustainable agricultural production systems promotedunder
    the project. The analysis ofthe sampleo frepresentative subprojects indicatedthat economic returns
    on most investments by crop farmers and livestock producers are likely to be above 18%; farm
    models with ERRof lessthan 10%were excluded from the analysis as this would be the minimum
    rate o f returnthat any sub-project would have to have inorder to be eligible for financing under the
    proposed project.

5 1, The financial analysis was carried out to assessthe financial viability o f a sample o f productive
     investments most likely to be demandedby irrigation farmers, alongthe same lines followed for the
     economic analysis. The financial viability of these investments was analyzed withinthe framework
     of the most common production systems usedbyproducers usingthe same set of farm models
     prepared for the economic analysis. As i s to be expected, giventhe level o f subsidy provided, the
     selectedfarm models showed relatively highfinancial rates of return. Input and output prices were
     assumedconstant, as was the real exchange rate, throughout the 20 year time horizon used inthe
     financial analysis. The discount rate was assumedto belO%.

2. Technical

52. Overall, the project is considered technically sound, given that:
     e   The main constraints to improvedmanagement of naturalresourcesand productivity of extensive
         livestock and crop production have been adequately identifiedduringproject preparation and
         included inthe implementation strategy of the project.
     e   Farmers' participation in investment decision making processesand the demand-driven approach
         that will characterize project executionhave already been tested by the implementingagency.
     e   The maintechnical aspectsofthe matchinggrant scheme that would be adopted bythe project
         have been adequately defined duringpreparation.
         The compliance of individual beneficiary sub-projectswith acceptabletechnical standardswould
         be ensuredthrough a combination o f instruments, includingthe participatory preparation of sub-
         projects, provision of technical support for the identification and preparationof farmers'
         investment proposals, and the establishment o f a detailed monitoring and evaluation system.
     e   The linkbetween natural resources and biodiversity has beenclearly diagnosed, and project
         design is expected to addressboth elements inan integrated manner.

53. From a biodiversity viewpoint, the project i s consistent with the general state-of-the-art conclusions
     and involves a holistic approach to the main areas of interest of the GEF and the Bank to mainstream
     biodiversity in the productive sector inrural areas. Thus, the project i s technically sound giventhat it:




                                                        14

        Provides a focused and innovativeway of financing and supportingbiodiversity conservation
        biodiversity inthe long-termby providing alternativeuses of biodiversity inthe rural landscape.
        Addresses the true root of biodiversity loss inUruguayby includingbiodiversity within a strategy
        of natural resources management, thus avoidingthe generally ineffective stand-aloneapproach.
        Ensuressustainabilityby involving biodiversity as aproductivefactor inthe rural landscapewith
        a biological vision from which the key biodiversity areaswill be derivedand prioritized for
        project financing.
        Providesthe neededcapacity and the creationof other innovativeknowledgetools to producea
        sound management toolkit for biodiversity.
        Providesa strongand broadframework for stakeholders' participationto increase ownership
        whilst at the same time ensuringthat several other key cross sectorial issues are included such as
        provision of freshwater, forest conservation,reductionof landdegradation, etc.
        Presents a demand-drivenapproach to promote ideas and innovativeways of adoptingsound            .
        biodiversity practicesand its combinationwith other naturalresources in a broader scope of rural
        landscapemanagement.
        Includes private sector participation inbiodiversity management especiallyoutside protected
        areas where as inthe case ofUruguay, the conservationof biodiversity is inprivate handswithin
        abiological vision ofkey biodiversity areas.

3. Institutional

3.1 ExecutinPApencies

54. Project investmentsare expectedto be demanddriven, with decisionsregardinginvestmentproposals
    beingfinanced and decisions about investmentpriorities beingmadeby the beneficiaries, with the
    help of private technical assistance.

55. Although project designposes a considerableinstitutional challenge, due to the decentralizednature
    of implementationandthe needfor adequate coordination betweenMGAP andMVOTMA, the
    project is consideredinstitutionally sound. This assessment is basedonthe fact that bothMGAP and
    DINAMAhave experienceinmanagingthese types ofprojects, particularly Bank-financedprojects
    such as PRENADER. Moreover, rolesandresponsibilities ofboth institutions involved inthe
    subprojectcycle, which is the key to successfulimplementationof the main components of the
    project, are well defined. The institutional strengtheningcomponent is designedto assist MGAP to
    adequately supportthe subprojectcycle.

56. The ProjectExecutingUnit,which would benefit from the experienceof some of the staffthat were
    responsiblefor the execution ofPRENADER and PAEFA, would be provided with additional
    institutional strengtheningto ensure adequate implementationcapacityto dealwith biodiversity
    activities and would reportdirectly to the MinisterofMGAP. Inthe performanceof its
    responsibilities, the REUwill beassistedbythe RenewableNatural ResourcesDivisionofMGAP
    (Direccidn General de Recursos Naturales Renovables,RENARE). The current weaknesses of
    RENARE's RegionalOffices that were identifiedduring preparationas aresult of a comprehensive
    participatory InstitutionalAssessment would be addressed bythe project as partofthe Institutional
    StrengtheningComponent.

3.2 Proiect ManaPement

57. As indicatedabove, the project will be managedby a Project Executing Unit, working inclose
    collaborationwith RENARE. An Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee(ICC), ledbythe



                                                     15

    MGAP's Minister,with the participationofthe MVOTMA Ministerandthe Director o fOPP, would
    be created to support the PEU on the main policy decisions. Technical Committees would be created
    to solve specific issues according to MGAP's necessities.

58 The proposedproject management structure is considered adequate for the needs of the Project and in
    comparisonwith previous Bankoperations, it provides a more participatory and decentralized
    structure to receive and evaluate the subprojects to be presentedby the beneficiaries. These
    arrangements appear to be operationally viable, as they combine the former experience of the
    PRENADER and with a new decentralized and participatory approachto this kindof project in
    Uruguay.

3.3 ProcurementIssues

59. Implementationofthe PRENADER Project as well as the Foot andMouth Emergency Recovery
    Project suggestthat, overall, the proposed PEUwould have adequate institutional capacity to handle
    project implementation issues, including procurement. While some weaknesseswere identified with
    respect to procurement processescarried out underthe former project, key staff inthe PEU are
    experienced and familiar with Bank fiduciary requirements. The said weaknesseswill be addressed
    under the proposed project through improvements to project design(Le. demand-driven, beneficiary
    executed subprojects with appropriate technical assistance, monitoring and supervision
    arrangements), as well as additional procurement training and technical assistancefor the PEU (see
    Annex 8).

60. Inaddition to a limited amount of procurement (primarily technical assistance), the PEUwill be
    responsible for: (i) selecting eligible beneficiaries on the basis of established criteria; (ii) with
                                                                                                  signing
    beneficiaries a standardproject agreementapproved by the Bank; (iii)      providing or supervising
    technical assistanceto the beneficiaries for sub-project preparation and implementation; (iv)
    supervising procurement carried out by the beneficiaries; and (v) managing a MIS with
    comprehensive procurement and financial information on the subprojects. It i s anticipated that the
    subprojects will be pre-financed by the beneficiaries who will bereimbursed by the PEU, provided
    that agreed procurement procedures have beenused.

61. The Subprojects are expected to include small works and small value goods to be procuredusing
    commercial practices on the basis of standard simplifieddocumentation and procedures. However,
    Sub-projects will also include technical assistanceprovided by individual consultants to be selected
    onthe basis of comparison o f highlydecentralized and demand driven qualifications and experience
    of three qualified consultants, whenever possible.
-
3.4 FinancialManapementIssues

62. Financialmanagementwill be under the direct responsibility ofthe FinancialManager and team in
    the PEU. Before effectiveness, the project preparation team inMGAPwill study and propose a
    financial systemto use duringimplementation. The OPP will guarantee inclusion o f the project inthe
    national multi-year budget.

63. Basedupon the Rulesfor Financial Statementsand Auditingand Projects Financedbythe World
    Bank inthe Disbursement Manual and inthe Accounting, Financial Statements andAuditing, MGAP,
    assistedby the PEUthrough its financial manager, will be responsible for the following actions: (i)
    coordination and monitoring of the flow o f funds; (ii)  management of the Financial Information
    System; (iii) Preparation of financial reports to be submittedto the Bank, consistent with the Bank
    Rules; (iv) Implementation ofthe necessarycorrective measuresofthe financial management during


                                                       16

    Project Implementation; (v) Contractingo f auditors usingBank procedures for financial verification
    and control inaccordancewith Bank Guidelines (see Annex 7).

64. There are no major risks inrelationto financial management, given MGAP's long-standing
    experience with financial managementof World Bank projects (especially related to PRENADER).

4. Social

65. Giventhe current socio-economic situation inthe country, there are no major social issues, as
    demonstrated duringthe implementationof PRENADER and ratified by the social assessment
    prepared by the local preparation group and evaluatedbythe World Bank Specialist.

5. Environment

66. The approach proposed to sustainable integrated renewable resource management, including
    biodiversity, i s basedon the successfulexperience of over aten-year period. O f the four sub-
    components which directly relate to use and conservation of naturalresourcesonly one, irrigation,
    poses any significant risk of negative environmental impact. Nevertheless, the project will ensure
    effective environmental screeningwith introductionand enforcement of mitigating measures.The
    design o fthe environmentalimpact assessment(EIA) and procedures is drawn from experience
    gained duringthe past project implementation. That experience has beenthoroughly evaluated with
    respectto the procedures usedfor environmental assessment and the outcome interms of resource
    management and demonstrates significant improvement inthe quality o f land andwater resources and
    little evidence of environmental degradation attributable to project-fundedactivities. Nevertheless,
    isolated cases were identified where performance could have been improved. Lessons learnedhave
    ledto the introductiono fa number o fmeasures to deal with such shortfalls-a "blacklist", specifying
    activities which are ineligible for fundingand improved technical assistance.

67. Impact assessment: Inthe irrigation component, EIA methodologies that have been tested and refined
    over the past decade would be applied. Measurement of potential impacts inthe extensive agriculture
    and native pasture components is expected to be relatively straightforward, principally requiringthe
    application o fa checklistand a blacklist. The biodiversity component insavannaand native forest
    ecosystems introduces an innovative dimension. It is exclusively focused on conservation (and use)
    of threatened biodiversity with global priority. Estimatingthe degree to which reduction inthe rate of
    degradation or enhancementof biodiversity and associatedsoil andwater resourcesmay be
    attributable to the specific activities will draw on invaluable insightsfrom PRENADER's micro-
    catchment component. The lessonshave been incorporated into a more rigorous specification of
    hypotheseson key cause-effect relationships and the baseline andM&Ework neededto test them.
    The existingGIS will be ofcritical importance. The researchproposed on carbon sequestration in
    pastures and methane generation from livestock should contributeto the on-going debate on how
    these issues impact on climate change.

68. Procedures: All fundingproposals from individual farmers or groups would be requiredto include a
    statement on potentialenvironmentalconsequences. All proposals will be screenedby the PEU on
    the basis ofa "blacklist" (as detailed inthe Operational Manual) priorto submission to relevant
    government authorities. Based on the specific content o f individual proposals, the PEUwould seek
    advice from DNH,DSA,DINAMAor DINOT for review and approval of subprojects. The PEU
    would beresponsible for final design and supervision inexecution o fthe EIAsinaccordancewith
    DINAMA'snorms and consistent withthe project's environmentalassessment specifications.




                                                       17

69. Institutional capacity: The PEUas well as the RegionalNatural ResourcesManagementOffices of
    MGAP would receivetraining inEIA methodology and itwould be ina positionto contract
    environmental specialiststo assist invarious phasesinthe sub-projectcycle. The DSA's capacity in
    GIS andEIAwould be strengthened. DINAMA andDNHare fully qualifiedto handlethe project's
    environmental requirements.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                        Yes                    No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                            [XI                    [I
 Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                         [I                     [XI
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                            [I                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                               [I                     [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                               [I                     [XI
  IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                  11                     [XI
  Forests(OPBP 4.36)                                                                  [I                     [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                         [I                     [XI
  ProjectsinDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60).                                            [I                    [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPBP/GP 7.50)                                   [I                    1x1

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

70. N/A




* By supporting theproposedproject,theBank does not intendtoprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                          18

                         Annex 1:Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesandBiodiversityManagementProject


1.       Uruguay is well endowed with natural resources for livestock and agricultural production, andthe
combination of agriculture and agro-industry sectors represent up to 23 percent of the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) o f Uruguay. But, even this figure belies the combined importance o f these two sectors to
the economy as a whole; over half of the output of these sectors is exported, and inthe early 2000s this
represented over 70 percent of Uruguay's total export earnings.

2.       For agriculture to continue its role of supporting economic development, it must increase even
more its outward orientation, paying particular attention to production specialization, quality
improvement and processing; and on the exploitation of Uruguay's particular advantages, such as its
counter-seasonrelationship with the northernhemisphereand its capacity for natural, organic and "green"
agriculture and livestockproduction.

3,       The increase in agricultural production must come from increased productivity, precisely because
the geographical frontier was reached long ago. For long-term sustainability, it i s essential that such
intensification must not prejudice the natural resource base that supports it. There are encouraging signs
that the erosion and degradation of soils provoked by inappropriate cultural practices established half a
century ago have beensignificantly reduced over the past 20-30 years. The reduction inthe total cropped
areahas largely eliminatedthe cultivation of the marginal andvulnerable soils, and has been accompanied
by the adoption of rotations (including plantedpastures) and agricultural practices (such as minimumand
zero tillage) that significantly reduce erosion. During the last years, an increase in the land covered by
soybean plantation is providing an alternative to the economy of the country, but at the same time
represents another threat to natural resources, especially to biodiversity, Increase in livestock production
will come largely from increasedproductivity in its extensive beef production sector and from improved
management of natural pastures, which constitute the basis of this production system. While a reduction
inthe size of the national sheep flock (from 26 to 12 million) duringthe 1990shas removed one of the
main threats to natural pastures from over-grazing, the extensive beef production system remains fragile
and its long-term sustainability threatened bythe risk o f natural pasture degradation. Natural pastures are
under vulnerable conditions because o f fragmentation of habitats thus resulting in isolated plant
populations and threatening fauna associated with these native grasslands. Some herbaceous vegetation,
mainly gramineae and some leguminosae are currently suffering from habitat isolation and land use
changes.

4.       Although land and pasture degradation has been reduced over the past quarter century, many of
the activities that make upthe current productionsystems presentnew environmentalchallenges that need
to be addressed within a context of sustainable development. A lack o f profitability at the farm level
could provoke an inappropriate and eventually detrimental use of natural resources, to the extent that
producers are forced to lower their planning horizon and place emphasis on the achievement o f immediate
and short-term solutions to cash flow shortages. This is particularly true in the case o f extensive beef
production sector, which uses 80% o f the country's land, 70% of which is under natural pastures.
Uruguay must, therefore, develop strategies and mechanisms to exploit fully the attributes o f its natural
resources, such as its naturalpastures, the potential for organic farming and sustainable use of agricultural
biodiversity, in the pursuit of market opportunities presented by ever-more-aware and demanding
consumers.




                                                      19

5.      Significant changes have taken place also in the way producers utilize and manage water
resources inUruguay. Reduced crop pressure on landand livestock pressure on natural pastureshas been

Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project - Loan 3697-UY). As pressure
accompanied by the dramatic expansion of irrigatedagriculture (partially supported by the Bank-financed

grows on available water resources, an expansion of irrigated agriculture will have to be accompanied by
improved efficiency  of water use and management in the agricultural sector that will require a broad
range of initiatives, from investment in irrigation technology and improved water quality to proper
management of livestock-related effluents through to the establishment of a more systematic groundwater
monitoring systems.

6.      In tandem with an agricultural use of natural resources that emphasizes natural products and
integrated production systems approach, biodiversity conservation and the maintenance of healthy eco-
systems offer additional opportunities for the rural economy. The conservation and management of
biodiversity requires the establishment o f a framework o f incentives to private landowners to promote
land-use practices that exploit the synergy between conservation and new opportunities for rural income
generation.

7.      The forestry sector, though of little importance for the national economy in the past, has shown
recently a very rapid increase due to incentives for plantation forestry. The area under plantation has
grown by close to 800% in the 1990s, and today the total area under plantation forestry covers
approximately 400,000 ha.      The economies of scale that have been achieved allow for industrial
processing that can be internationally-competitive. Such industry is not, per se, supportive of biodiversity
consen-ation since it relied on introduced species with various negative environmental impacts.
Nevertheless, it can benefit from diversification and can increase its ecological value through associated
native forest conservation and regeneration ofnative species.

8.      The global significance ofUruguay's biodiversity i s basedon it being a confluence of Amazonian
and Chaco domains, with mosaic-like habitats dominated by grasslands, interspersed with marshes, spiny
woodland ("espinal"), gallery forest, and bodies o f standing water ("esteros"). Because of Uruguay's
comparatively small size, relatively regular topography, and absence o f major geographical accidents, the
country tends to be uniform from a biological perspective when compared with other countries in the
Neo-tropical region. The grassland ecosystem ("pastizal") is the most representative area of the country,
periodically-inundated and interspersed marshes, espinal, gallery forest, and esteros.        The relative
importance o f these habitats and the clear dominance o f the grassland (pradera) ecosystem are shown in
the Table below.




9.      The richness at ecosystem and site level is enhanced by its having transboundary ecosystems.
Uruguay holds one of the world's few "savanna" ecosystems, which in turn i s very important from a


                                                    20

global standpoint, having being recognized as being of "bioregionally outstanding" value with around
1,200 species of vertebrates, including 580 of fish, 41 of amphibians, 62 of reptiles, 434 of birds, and 111
of mammals.     The other eco-regions represented in the country include the Humid Chaco and the
Brazilian Atlantic Coast Restingas. O f the 111 species of mammals present in the country, four have
already become extinct, and an additional 5 are in danger of extinction. Being an Endemic Bird Area,
Uruguay holds 3 restricted-range Sporophilu species, one of which is in critical condition, another
endangered, and the third nearly threatened. From a botanical perspective, Uruguay has over 2,500 plant
species o f which the great majority i s herbaceous species or shrubs corresponding to the dominant
savanna ecosystems. Almost exclusive Private ownership of land, the weakness o f the protected areas
system, and public policy decision that biodiversity conservation must be secured mostly outside of
protected areas, makes this project a unique opportunity to develop sound practices for rural development
inharmony with nature conservation and basedconservation ofbiodiversity through appropriate use. The
country has declared 3 1 protected areas under different types of management categories accounting for
302,364 hectares.

10.     The specific habitats present in Uruguay do not occur in isolation from each other but are
interspersed, with a series of localizedgeographic features which include rocks, hills, small ravines and a
highly-branched hydrological network; it is this "mosaic" pattern that, defines the uniqueness and
importance of the eco-region from a biodiversity perspective and, under natural conditions, allows it to
maintain its species diversity. The followingare the main eco-systems present inthe country:

    0   Savanna-which includes a heterogeneousherbaceouscommunity (2000 species, of which 400
        are gruminidue), whose diversity is determined by the relative complexity ofthe soils. There are
        also various legumeswith importance from a range managementperspective, as well as shrubs.

    0   Native Forests-which includes various distinct types, among them gallery forests (along rivers
        and other water courses), ravine forests (which appear inpatchesand benefit from specific micro-
        climate conditions), "bosqueSerruno," palm forests (including the important and endemic
        "Butiu" association covering 70,000 ha), "monte depurque", "ulgurrobuPY,and litoralspiny
        forests ("monte espinoso del litoral").

    0   Wetlands -which are primarily located inthe south-east, especially inthe LagunaMerin
        watershed and the coast of Rocha.

    0   Coastal Ecosystems- which are productive and have an important associatedwildlife. They
        occur along the two main coastso f the country, the River Plate coast (460 km) andthe Atlantic
        coast (220 km).

11.     Within this richness interms of biodiversity, livestock production (primarily cattle and sheep) has
developed and beenthe mainpillar o fthe rural economy since the last century. Livestock productionwas
always based on the use of natural pastures, at f r s t extensive but gradually with increasing intensity,
including enclosure with `fencing in the 19th century and significant attempts to improve its grazing
capacity in the latter half of the 20th century with investments in fertilizer, exotic pasture species,
drinking water storage and electric fencing. The original savanna ecosystem with associated forests (a
product o f rich soils and a temperate climate) has thus been heavily altered and, with it, the natural
features ofthe landscapehave changed substantially.

12.     These changes have produced some effects: a) the localized effects, which include a change inthe
composition of species (primarily grasses) both from the invasion of exotic species (such as introduced
grasses) and from the selective effects o f grazing (which favors certain species over others, and thus alters
the natural competitive forces). In addition, grazing causes soil compaction which also distorts the


                                                     21

ecological forces present before widespread grazing; and b) ecological effects, which are larger-scale
changes resulting from the alteration (due to range management practices) of flooding patterns, fire
cycles, and natural succession cycles, which inturncreate a savanna ecosystemdifferent from its original
natural condition, with the consequent change in species composition and dominance patterns. Another
major alteration o f natural habitats (directly or indirectly associated with range management practices)
has been the heavy loss of native forests, with the consequent loss o f biodiversity habitats, biological
corridors, and ecosystem services. Fortunately, both main habitat types (savanna and native forests) are
fairly resilient and, unlikemany tropical habitats, they can be the subject of restoration efforts that can be
cost-effective and feasible intime.

13.       Soil erosion has also altered natural habitats. Some 30 percent of all agricultural land has suffered
from some form o f erosion. Nevertheless, soil erosion seems to strongly depend on the appearance of
periodic heavy rain episodes (associated with El Niiio Southern Oscillation events), with the resulting
damage being heavily correlated with the type o f land use present, which is minimal under permanent
forest. Wetland loss and degradation has also occurred to a substantial degree because of a variety of
factors, including the early expansion o f rice cultivation which both replaced the habitats and degraded
them through the application of fertilizers and pesticides. This effect has been particularly important in
the east (Baiiados del Este). Finally, invasion by exotic species (both animals and plants) has also caused
significant impacts. For example, since the 1960s the growth of the livestock sector has been based in
part on the improvement of natural pasturesvia the introduction of improved grasses and legumes andthe
use of fertilizers, with the consequent ecological impacts already discussed.            Fortunately, from a
biodiversity perspective, of the 16 million ha that are appropriate for livestock and agriculture, 91percent
is still under naturalpastures.

14,       Almost exclusive private ownership of land, Uruguay has a weak protected areas system, and
public policy decision that biodiversity conservation must be secured mostly outside of protected areas,
makes this project a unique opportunity to develop sound practices for rural development in harmony
with nature, and particularlybiodiversity, conservation through appropriate use. The country has declared
3 1 protected areas representing an estimated 300,000 ha. under different types o f management categories.
However, the presence o f a fledgling system of protected areas provides a significant opportunity for
conserving natural habitats both in and around present and future protected areas. As in other countries,
even if Uruguay were able to place 10-15% of its territory under some sort o f protection (which is very
expensive and may be not applicable for Uruguay), this would not be sufficient to maintain large-scale
ecological processes andto ensure sustainable biodiversity Conservationover the longterm.

15.       The government o f Uruguay i s convinced o f the need to complement its fledgling system of
protected areas with aggressive conservation efforts outside it. Fortunately, this plan is supported by: the
ecological characteristics o f the country; the synergies that can be found between the types o f ecosystems;
the potential for rural income generating opportunities; and the resilience and restoration potential of
Uruguay's ecosystems. The key concept for achieving biodiversity conservation outside Uruguay's
system o f protected areas would be the promotion o f biodiversity-compatible, multiple land-use practices,
within a landscape approach. Under this approach, it is possible to promote the adoption of land-use
practices that exploit the synergiesthat exist between biodiversity conservation and opportunities for rural
income generation. Some of these practices o f "integrated ecosystem management" may include a
combination of the following land-uses, whose relative emphases will be determined by the local
conditions, the feasibility o f implementing an incentive framework, the ability for market-based
mechanisms to support these land-uses, and their relative contribution to conservation: as a) maintenance
o f scenic beauty for rural tourism and recreation, b) wildlife ranching, c) integrated savanna ecosystem
management, d) silvopastoril systems, e) wildlife hunting, among other arising opportunities. Besides,
this contribution to the conservation of natural areas, the project will support Uruguay to advance inthe
conservation of conservation units, either public or private by identifying mechanisms to conciliate


                                                       22

conservation and biodiversity conservation in management units, thus contributing to the CBD's recent
conclusions on expanding the areas conservedinthe signatory countries.

16.      Uruguay's policies have established that these possibilities do not need to be implemented in
isolation from each other. In fact, even though they may be relatively modest from an economic
perspective when analyzed individually, they can become a major alternative to inappropriate land-use
practices through income diversification and complementarity to traditional practices.             From a
biodiversity perspective, what is key i s the promotion of a geographic configuration that maintains the
mosaic nature o f Uruguay's original habitats, restoring biological corridors through a diversified rural
landscape. As in many other countries and regions, many o f these possibilities are still fledging;
therefore, they can be sharpened and benefit from additional research and the establishment of pilot
activities. Eventually, and with the growing international trends that favor the competitiveness of green
and environmental-friendly markets, biodiversity conservation offers vast opportunities for the future
well-being of Uruguay's rural economy and for the regeneration and maintenance o f healthy
ecosystems inthe country.

17.      This ecological importance has been in conflict with traditional rural development, mainly with
biodiversity conservation not beingincluded as a key part of the productive sector. The conservation and
management of biodiversity require the establishment of a framework of incentives to private landowners
to promote land use practices that exploit the synergy between conservation and new opportunities for
rural income generation. In this project, agricultural use of natural resources would emphasize natural
products and an integrated production systems approach, biodiversity conservation and the maintenance
of healthy ecosystems to broaden the supply of additional opportunities for the rural economy. By
providing incentives for the conservation of key species and habitats using innovative tools for private
initiatives (easements, certification, private reserves, land tax exemptions, and others) and by providing
economic value to biodiversity by making proper use and perpetuating the issue of the resource, the
country will have appropriate mechanisms to incorporate biodiversity into the productive alternatives of
the rural sector.

18.      In summary, although the agricultural sector has a demonstrated capacity to further innovate by
adopting technology and diversifying both production and markets, there is a growing recognition that the
need to expand production and to increase productivity must be compatible with the protection and
conservation of the natural resources on which it is based. In addition, it must be recognized that the
issues and challenges of the rural areas go beyond the ability of agriculture alone to solve. A large part of
the public sector's role inpromoting development ofthe rural areas is to provide a supportive framework
of public goods, while encouraging the private sector to identify and exploit the opportunities made
available by world markets. There i s also an important role for government in usingpublic expenditure,
both in support of infrastructure and inthe application o f specific incentives to achieve a demonstration
effect in selected sub-sectors; the achievements in irrigation development and commercial forestry over
the past fifteen years are good examples to expand andreplicate.

19.      Government Commitment. The Government is keen to expand the work initiated under the
PRENADER Project, but with more emphasis on natural resources and biodiversity conservation and
management.To that end, the Bank prepared a sector review to analyze the main issues related to natural
resourcesmanagement inUruguay (Uruguay: the Rural Sector and Natural Resources, Report No. 24409-
UR), which was well received by Government The Ministry of Agriculture, with the agreement of the
Ministry of Economy and OPP, requested World Bank technical and financial assistance for the
preparation and execution o f the proposed project, and would like to start implementingthe project as
soon as possible . Furthermore, during 2003, the local preparation team, with the assistance o f an FA0
Technical Cooperation Project (TCP), has already prepared background information and a preliminary
proposal for a possible natural resources management project. Finally, with the financial assistance o f a


                                                      23

GEF PDF Block B Grant, the Ministry of Agriculture is currently preparing a proposal to provide a
comprehensive analysis of the status and trends of agricultural biodiversity and of their underlying
threats; mainstream biodiversity in on-farm investment projects to improve natural resources
management; and strengthenthe capacities of farmers and their organizations, local and central authorities
to manage agricultural biodiversity. The proposal would be submitted to GEF for financing andwould be
an integral part of the Natural Resources and Biodiversity Management Project under preparation that
would be financed bythe Bank.

20.     Livestock production has been and i s important for the national economy, Uruguay i s lowly
populated with an early disappearance of native communities, very high urbanization rate and the very
highproportion of lands under private ownership: all these have prevented Uruguay fiom developing a
"Protected Area System" of similar characteristics to those of other Latin American countries with some
ad-hoc created areas covering less than 1.6% of the national territory. To correct this situation, a recent
law created the National System of Protected Areas. However, as yet this has not been implemented. On
the other side native forests are protected under law, but this legal protection, although necessary, is not a
sufficient condition to ensure that native forest ecosystems recover their ecological functionality. This
functionality requires the existence o f contiguous areas of a minimum size, the maintenance o f habitat
quality, the proper configuration of forest patches inbiological corridors, etc. Furthermore, there i s a lack
of effective incentives for reforestation with native species which, given the losses that have already
occurred, is a pre-requisite for the recovery o fthese ecosystems.

21.      Itwas thus understood that the future of biodiversity inUruguay cannot be analyzed in isolation
from the government policy regarding rural development, and ranching in particular. This resulted in a
livestock strategy (through MGAP) based upon three main pillars:              (a) sectoral growth based on
productivity increases, (b) equitable sharing of the costs and benefits of this growth, and (c) conservation
of natural resources. Over the long term, the strategy prioritizes diversification, increase in productivity,
product differentiation, product value-added, and increase in quality. The fate o f Uruguay's biodiversity
is intimately linked to this sector, and it is thus critical to develop and implement a biodiversity policy
that can be effectively applied within that context.

22.      Country Eligibility. Uruguay ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) on May
 11, 1993 In compliance with art. 6 of the CBD. The National Biodiversity Strategy (NBS), was prepared
during 1998 and 1999 (Project URU/96/G31) by DINAMA with financial support fiom the GEF. The
Uruguayan NBS was published and officially presented by MYOTMA on December 29, 1999 and
submittedto the CBD Secretariat. The project will provide support to advance inthe commitments from
Uruguay to advance in the conservation of biodiversity as derived from the recent Conference o f the
Parties carried out inMalasya(Feb'04).

23,      Country's Drivenness. The Government o f Uruguay and the World Bankhave collaborated for
more than fifty years in the development of the agricultural sector. Most of this effort was directed
towards the productive aspects of agriculture, but during the past decade a broader approach has been
adopted in the rural areas; in particular, emphasis has gradually been increased on environmental issues
and on the achievement of long-term sustainable production systems, mainly through improved natural
resources management. Lessons learned from the recently completed Bank-financed project, the Natural
Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project (PRENADER), indicate that any future
operation in the agricultural sector in Uruguay should go beyond irrigated agriculture and dairy
production and include natural resources management in the extensive livestock production sub-sector,
which uses over 70% of the land, and extensive crop production, as well as conservation and management
o f agricultural biodiversity. The proposed project is therefore committed to include biodiversity as
 another component ofthe rural productive sector.




                                                      24

24.      At the international level, Uruguay has beenan active participantinthe Conventionon Biological
Diversity since its ratification on May 11, 1993 by Law no16408. The Operational Focal Point for the
CBD is DINAMA, and the national agency responsible for the implementation of the CBD i s
M V O T W I N A M A according to National Government Decree 487/993. The GEF Operational Focal
Point i s also DINAMA. The National Biodiversity Strategy contains the principal recommendations and
instruments for the implementation o f the CBD inthe country and i s the result o f a participatory process.
Within this strategy the need to mainstream biodiversity into the rural landscape has been established
based upon and agreed by about 125 delegates representing 58 institutions from the public and private
sectors (Ministries, local governments, educational and researchinstitutions, NGOs, farmers associations,
etc.) and from the University, among others, who attended the thematic workshops during the project
period. The NBS includes recommendations on the directions upon which the proposed project is based,
with emphasis on in situ conservation, research, capacity, and information exchange, and education and
public awareness. A letter of endorsement was provided by Uruguay's GEF focal point on November 7,
2001.    The Uruguayan Government has expressed its support and interest in the development and
implementationof this project, which would be executed by the MGAP, and explicitly acknowledges that
it is inagreementwith, and supportive of, theNBS.

25.      This project is consistent with the guidelines of the GEF's Biodiversity Operational Program 13:
Conservation and Sustainable Use o f Biological Diversity Important to Agriculture. The project focuses
on managed ecosystems and biological habitats that provide a broad range o f goods and services
important to human development and the global environment, as well as on maintaining diverse farming
systems and conserving biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. This strategy would promote positive
impacts and at the same time mitigate the negative impacts of agricultural systems and practices on
biological diversity in agro-ecosystems and their interface with other ecosystems. It would also promote
the conservation and sustainable use of genetic resources. These activities would contribute to the
objectives of the CBD in the area of agricultural biological diversity, upon which part of the Uruguay
economy i s based, thus providing significant means for improving living conditions in rural areas while
increasing productivity o f biological and rural resources. The project would achieve these goals by
assisting local producers in Uruguay and creating demonstrative pilot areas to address constraints
preventing the introduction, dissemination and widespread use o f ecologically sound and socially
responsible managementconcepts which have good prospects for sustainable, multiple focal areabenefits.
The UruguayanGovernment, throughthis GEF project and fully blended with the loan, intendsto create a
management systemthat would be replicated in other areas to generate multiple local area benefits and to
enhance the potential o f the rural landscape. Therefore, the project includes systematic reviews of
experience gained, documentation of good practices, and dissemination of lessons and know-how. The
project will be also creating capacity at the national level in carbon sequestration and balance, but this
contribution would be a minimal contribution from the GEF financing.




                                                     25

            Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject


1.       The World Bank hashad a long-termengagementinAgriculture DevelopmentinUruguay, Most
of this effort has been directed towards the productive aspects of agriculture, but duringthe past decade a
broader approach has beenadopted to the rural areas; inparticular, emphasis has gradually been increased
on environmental issues and on the achievement of long-term sustainable production systems, mainly
through improved natural resourcesmanagement.

2.       The Government ofUruguay implementedthe PRENADERproject, supported bythe World
Bank. The principal objective o f this project was to develop and implement a soil and water management
strategy focused onthe development of irrigation and intendedto increase, diversify and sustain
agricultural output and exports. This principal objective was to be reached via the achievement of five
subsidiary objectives: (a) increasing the level of sector investmentthrough the rehabilitation and
development o f irrigation and drainage schemes and related service infrastructure; (b) strengtheningthe
technical foundation andthe regulatory framework of water use; (c) establishing a policy on: (i)   the
operation and maintenance cost, and (ii) capital cost recovery o f sector investment; (d) supporting
                                          the
agricultural diversification; and (e) establishing the framework to improve the management of natural
resources.The project hadthree components: a) aNatural ResourceManagement component; b) an
Irrigation Development component; and c) a Project Management and Implementation component. The
project was closed on December 31,2002 and overall was considered a success. The project had had no
financial or macro-economic objectives but it hadmade substantial progress towards its three specific
objectives of sector policies; physical objectives; and institutionaldevelopment. The project's
sustainability has beenrated as Likely andby the end of the project, PRENADERhad become
institutionalized and was considered among the farming community as the institution incharge o f
irrigation development. Furthermore, the project managedto promote a system of private investment in
irrigation sub-projects which, together with the development of an improvedtechnologicalbase and an
important human and institutional capital, would guaranteethe sustainable operation o fthese sub-projects
inthe future without the needfor further Government assistance. Key lessonsthat have been incorporated
inthe design ofthe proposed project have beenlisted on Section 5 of Project Descriptioninthe project
document.

3.       The Bank is financing the RegionalProject "Environmental Protectionand SustainableIntegrated
Management ofthe Guarani Aquifer" which deals with a unique source of water indirectly related to this
project inthat irrigated farms depend on the aquifer for irrigated water supply. Uruguay's Ramsar site
Baiiados del Este receivedGEF financing sponsoredbythe UNDP givingthe basis for land use inan area

mentioningare a) the IFAD- Uruguay Rural, b) the IDB- Competitiveness Livestock Project (follow on
of importance for rice productionand for biodiversity conservation. Other projects that deserve


Activities to Comply with the UNFCCC, d) UNEP - Enabling Activities for the Stockholm Convention
under preparation, Livestock Development Project), c) UNDP- Institutional Strengthening and Enabling


Methane Recovery Demonstration Project, Climate Change, f)IBRD- UY Road Maintenance Project,
on Persistent Organic Pollutants(POPS): National Implementation Plan for Uruguay, e) IBRD- Landfill

and g) IBRD - Foot and MouthDisease Emergency RecoveryProject. The following table summarises
the statuso fthese projects.                                                        !




                                                       26

NRM                      NaturalResource               Completedin 1992
                         Managementand Irrigation
                         (PRENADER) ($41.0 million)
Agriculture              Foot and Mouth Disease        Ongoing
                         Emergency Project ($18.5
                          million)
Rural Roads               Transport Infrastructure     Preparation
                          Maintenanceand Rural
                          Access ($70.0 million)


Climate Change            Landfill Methane Recovery    Ongoing
                         Project ($1.0 million)
International Waterways   EnvironmentalProtection      Ongoing
                          and Sustainable Integrated
                          Managementof the Guarani
                         Acquifer ($13.4 million)


Agricultural Development PovertyProject) ($24.5
(IFAD)
Inter-American
DevelopmentBank (IDB)     Project (Follow up Livestock
                          Development) ($16.0 million)
United NationsDevelopment Institutional Strengthening   Ongoing
Program (UNDP)            and EnablingActivities to
                          Comply with UNFCCC ($0.7
                          million)
United NationsDevelopment Conservationof Biodiversity   Ongoing
Program (UNDP)            in the Western Wetlands
                          ($3.0 million)
United NationsEnvironment Enabling Activities for the   Ongoing
Program                   Stockholm Convention on
                          Persistent Organic Pollutants
                          (POPS)($0.5 million)
United NationsDevelopment ProtectedAreas Project        Preparation
Program (UNDP)            (Amount to be defined)




                                        27

I   *      1         0




-I-=-      * e




 I *  e     0          * *
                Y
                Y

. .    0




            0

3    g .E

           0
            M

r




           3
     E     M
     3'
     m

     8E
     6


     cu
     cd
     0
     Y
     EE
     3
     8

     n
     E

         a
         8




. . . . . .

m
m


IA
m

                                   Annex 4: DetailedProject Description
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand Biodiversity ManagementProject

General Project Features

1.       The proposedBanWGEF blended project would assistthe Uruguayan Government inits efforts to
promote among farmers and livestock producersthe adoption o f economically and environmentallyviable
integrated production systems, within a context of holistic ecosystem and naturalresourcesmanagement.
The adoption of improvednaturalresourcesmanagementsystems is expected to promotethe conservation
of soils, water and rangelands, while increasing productivity and mainstreaming biodiversity conservation
inproducers' investment and productiondecisions, thus ensuringthe economic andenvironment
sustainability o f agricultural and livestock development. Withinthis integrated production system
approach, the project aims to promote also a betterunderstanding of the role of biodiversity inagricultural
landscapes and the potential impact of the various landuse practices upon biodiversity and their economic
and ecological sustainability.

2.       The project also would implement support services such as technical assistanceand training to
promotethe adoption of integrated natural resourcesmanagement systems at the farm level and increase
awarenesso f biodiversity conservation inthe productive sectors. The project would contribute also to
buildinginstitutional and landowners' capacity for holistic management of naturalresourcesand
integratingbiodiversity conservation inproductive landscapes. While the adoptiono f integrated
production systems inagricultural and livestock landscapeswould be promoted at the national level, the
GEF support for integrated systems would beconcentratedinkey biodiversity areas.

3,       Based on a blendingof GEF-financing with an IBRDloan and a demand-driven strategy with the
commitment of rural landowners and with strongtraining and capacity building, this project would
maintain mosaics o f natural habitats within the rural landscape through sustainable wildlife use, support
for ecotourism and rural tourism operation, promotion of integrated savannaecosystemmanagement
including regeneration o f natural habitats usingagro-forestry systems (including silvo-pastoral systems
and techniques for native vegetation propagation innurseries). Itwould also promote innovative forms o f
private land conservation such as ecological easements, diversification o f rural production, increase in
ecologicalvalue, and the establishment o f conservation corridors, all o fthem within a holistic approach
that would mainstream biodiversity into the rural productive sector. GEF funds would be allocated to
incremental costs throughout the various project components.

4.       Givenits relatively highcost, the expansion ofthe protected areas systeminUruguaywould not
be a viable solution to maintain large-scale ecological processesand ensure sustainable biodiversity
conservation over the longterm. Consequently, Government is planning to complement its systemo f
protected areas with aggressive conservation efforts outside it. The ecological characteristics ofthe
country, the synergies that can be found between the types o f ecosystems found andthe generation o f
rural income opportunities, and the resilience and restoration potential o f Uruguay's ecosystems are
supportive elements for such an approach. The key concept to achieve biodiversity conservation outside
Uruguay's system of protected areas would be the promotion o fbiodiversity-compatible, multiple land-
use practices, within a landscape approach. Under this approach, it i s possible to promote the adoption of
land-use practices that exploit the synergies that exist between biodiversity conservation and opportunities
for rural income generation. Some o fthese practices of "integrated ecosystem management" would
include a combination of various land uses whose relative emphases would be determined by local
conditions, the feasibility o f implementingan incentiveframework, the ability for market-based
mechanisms to support these land uses, and their relative contributionto conservation. Withinthis
framework, the project would be focused on the promotion o f a geographic configurationthat maintains


                                                      36

the mosaic nature o f Uruguay's original habitats and restoringbiological corridors through a diversified
rural landscape

5.      The project would providetechnical and financial assistance for the implementationof demand-
driven subprojects that would promote the adoption o f integrated production systems inagricultural and
livestock landscapesto increase productivity within a context of holistic ecosystemand natural resources
management while conserving soils, water, rangelands, and biodiversity. The project would assist
farmers with the development and adoption of appropriate technologies to increasethe productivity o f
agricultural and livestock systems, while ensuring biodiversity and soil conservation, promotingthe
adoption of production systems to reduce the impact o f grazing and the risk of erosion, and enhancing the
efficient use o f water resources. Additionally, the project would promote a better understandingthe
carbon sequestration potentialof various land-use practices and define a strategy to promote carbon
sequestration inUruguay's productive landscapes.

6.      The proposed approach inthe rural landscape of Uruguay would develop and promote a different
way o f "doing businessas usual" without changing the productive context but including improved
practices for natural resources and incorporatingbiodiversity into this sector, bringingcountry-driven
information, advisory, technical and extension services and drawing special attention to viable farming
and silvo-pastoral practices that help conserve and sustainable use biodiversity inthe agricultural
landscape, which require farmers' contribution to finance investments in improved natural resources
management operations. Itwould ensurepublic participation in a new means of getting products from
rural sectors, promotethe identificationanddevelopment of new marketing and businessopportunities for
more diversified production systems including eco-friendly produce, and create a sense of belonging for
native biodiversity. Inturn, it would establish the humanand institutional capacity to promote sustainable
solutions to agro-silvo-pastoral initiatives beyondthe project while at the same time conserving
biodiversity, including training, demonstration, and technology transfer, among others. The sustainability
would be also confirmedby the demand for investments.

Project Design

7.       The Projectwould provide financial incentives andtechnical assistance to medium- and small-
sized farmers, emphasizing investment proposals by groups of farmers, to invest in sustainable
agricultural practices and mainstream biodiversity, inorder to ensurethe conservation and sustainable use
o f naturalresourcesand biodiversity, and consolidate investmentsmade under the previous operation.
The project would also strengthenthe Ministry ofLivestock, Agriculture, andFisheries' overall natural
resources managementcapabilities through staff training and the upgradingof the Geographical
Information Systemand relatednaturalresource management tools developed under the previous
operation, while at the same time creating ways for inclusion of innovative meansof biodiversity
conservation.

8.       This fully blendedIBRD/GEFproject would promotethe adoptionof integrated production
systems inagricultural and livestock landscapesto increase productivity within a context ofholistic
ecosystemand naturalresourcesmanagement while conservingsoils, water, rangelands, and biodiversity.
While the Bank loanwould finance the productive and competitive components relatedto agricultural
crop production and livestock development, the GEFwould finance the incremental costs,requiredto
restore or improve the capacity ofthe productive rural landscapeto maintainand improve ecological
processesand conservebiodiversity, by means of involvingbiodiversity as a key element for rural
development.




                                                      37

9.       To achieve its objectives, the project would adopt a demand-driven project implementation
strategy inwhich small- and medium-sized farmers, butpreferably groups o f farmers, would submitto the
Project ExecutingUnit investmentproposals to improve naturalresourcesand biodiversity management.
Those proposals approved by the project, following agreed selection criteria, would receive financial and
technical support through the project. GEF resourceswould cover the incrementalcosts of adopting
production systemsthat would result inthe conservation and improvedmanagement o f agricultural
biodiversity. The different menus o f options ininnovative ways to mainstream biodiversity and other
natural resources inthe rural landscapewould be shown by demonstration pilot projectsto be
implementedinpartnership with stakeholdersinpreviously defined key areas o f conservation. A strong
training scheme would be implemented at stakeholder level.

10.      While the entire project will have a nationalscope, the GEF-fundingwill be focused on the
savanna and native forest ecosystems. These ecosystemshold heterogeneousherbaceous community and
its associatedareas of native Forests, including gallery forests (along rivers and other water courses),
ravine forests (which appear inpatches andbenefitfrom specific micro-climate conditions), and mainly
the "bosque Serrano". The projecthasalready identifiedtwo keyareas, one inthe northandthe other in
east where the "quebradas" are the last remaining areas o f nativevegetation associatedwith water springs
and water courses (preliminary areas selectedfor its biodiversity importance are shown inthe following
map). Mainthreats to grassland ecosystems are 1ivestocWagricultureproduction systems in some cases
incompatible with biodiversity conservation which produce the loss of carrying capacity of livestock
areas, loss of productivity and soil degradation, loss of native herbaceousvegetation with the recurrent
water pollution, changes inthe vegetation features and the loss of shelter and food for wildlife. While in
"serrania,syy though livestock and crops have not extensively arrived yet, some o f these areas are
vulnerable becauseofthe need of more landfor agriculture and livestock production. Traditional
productive systems inthese areas will reduce the productivity, would eliminate the last remnant o f
particular wildlife and plant species and may alter the capture and distribution o f water into the
"quebradas".

 11.     Byproviding incentives for the conservation ofkey speciesandhabitats usinginnovativetools
for private initiatives (easements, certification, private reserves, landtax exemptions, and others) and by
providing economic value to biodiversity by makingproper use andperpetuating the issue of the resource,
the country will have appropriate mechanisms to incorporate biodiversity into the productive alternatives
o f the rural sector.

Project Components:

 12.     To achieve its objective the project would execute its activities over a period o f 6 years, which
would be financed under four main components: the natural resourcesand biodiversity management
component; the establishment ofpilot areas; support services; and the Project Executing Unit. Total
project costs have been estimated at about US$96.0 million, which would be financed by a Bank loan o f
US$ 30.0 million; a GEF Grant ofUS$7.0 million; Government counterpart funds o fUS$ 3.0 million;
and contribution of about US$ 56.0 million by beneficiaries.

1. NaturalResourcesandBiodiversityManagementComponent(US$87.63 million,or 91.4% of
total project costs)

 13.     Through this component, the project would finance demand-driven activities to promote
sustainable management o f natural resources and biodiversity.

 14.     Withinthis component, the Bank loanwould finance financial andtechnical assistanceto
promote:


                                                       38

                                          a) Improvednaturalresourcesmanagementpractices. in
   livestock production systems, with special referenceto improvedmanagement of natural pastures
  andbiodiversity. Underthis headingthe project would finance investment in, amongothers,
  fences to improve natural pasturemanagement; water supply for livestock; small irrigation
   systems for the strategic production of forage crops; and improved drainage.

b) The adoption of improvedcultural uractices indryland amiculture that could improvethe
   conservation andmanagementof soil andwater resources. Typical investment to be financed by
  the project within this component would be soil leveling, soil improvementand the introduction
   of minimumor zero tillage systems.

c) Improved natural resources managementsystems inirrigatedareas, which would include
   investment to consolidate and expand irrigation development financed under PRENADER. This
   would include investment in improved soil management inirrigatedareas; investment in
   irrigation technology to improve the efficiency of irrigated water use; investment to expand
   agricultural diversification into highvalue crops, such as vegetables and fruits; improvement of
   water use efficiency water waste treatment indairy farming. Farmers would accessthe project's
   financial resources for their investment proposals according to clear selection andeligibility
   criteriato be defined.

d) Biodiversity Conservation. Within this component, the GEF contributionwould be allocated for
   biodiversity initiatives that would result inimproved rural practices, improvedpopulations of key
   elements o f Uruguay's biodiversity, increasedareas of conservation for biodiversity, increased
   incomes for biodiversity used, as well as innovative means to promote private land conservation.
   This would be implemented by small- and medium-sized farmers livinginkey areas for
   biodiversity conservation. Extensionserviceswill rely on private groups such as cooperative,
   producer associations, andprofessional extension groups, for the promotion of the biodiversity
   component within the rural sector. Specific activities to be implementedwith the support o f GEF
   financial resourcescould include, among others, the following:

   a   Incremental costs of biodiversity conservation and management. This subcomponent i s
        expected to contributeto the maintenance, recovery and improvement of natural pastures,
       working with native species in systems of intensiveuse with crop rotations, providing
        alternatives for multiple uses of natural pasture lands (honey, medicinal, nutritional,
        ornamental and other uses) and implementingsoil protectiontechniques inriparianareas to
        conserve and improve hydrological system. This component would be accompanied by
       training, technical assistanceand sharing of experiences inthe conservation and sustainable
        use of biodiversity innaturalpastures.

   a    Sustainable management oftimber and non-timber products from native forests. This
        subcomponent is expected to contribute in implementing forest conservation initiatives by
        utilizingforestry management techniques (thinning,pruning, enrichment, recovery, etc.) and
        improvingnative forests with reintroduction, reforestationandrestorationof native forests.
        The multiple uses o f forests (resins, honey, fruits, medicinal, ornamental, etc.) will be
        promotedandactivities will be accompanied by training, technical assistanceand sharing of
        experiences inconservation and sustainable use of biodiversity innative forests.

   a    Management andconservation of native fauna. This subcomponent would be baseduponthe
        fauna resources of the comtry, some o f which are already under use and others are still to be
        implemented. The subcomponent would try to invest inimplementation of farmingpractices
        for native specieswith differentpurposes (slaughtering by-products, pets, breeding-stock,


                                                 39

             etc.), ranchingpractices for native species(slaughtering by-products, pets, breeding-stock,
             etc.), development o f strategies for restoration of degradedhabitats for native fauna species
             and any other type of innovative way o f conserving and making sound use o fwildlife.
             Training and extension services would also be provided.


         0   Generationof silvo-pastoral initiatives. This subcomponent would seek the implementation
             of combined activities to promote livestock production innative landscapesby implementing
             practices to recover the naturalbiodiversity of forest-pasture ecosystem, by improving cattle-
             raising inforest areas, for purposes of certification. Training, technical assistanceand
             sharing of experiencesinagro-silvo-pastoral systemswith native species would be provided.


         0   Development of ruraltourism basedon native species. Based on the experiences already
             existing inthe country, this subcomponent would enhancethe role o f biodiversity-based
             tourism by supporting implementationof agro-ecotourism experiments, ecotourism and
             nature tourism experiments, ranch tourism experiments, while at the same time providing
             training, technical assistance and sharing of experiences inrural tourism and agro-
             biodiversity.

2. EstablishmentofPilotAreas (US$1.5 million,or 1.5% of total project costs)

15.      This component, whichwould befully financed byGEFresources, would establish
demonstration areas withinthe selectedareas of GEF-interventions (grasslands and serrunius), for
sustainable use of natural resources inkey micro-catchments which are of importance for biodiversity,
combining sound practices for naturalresources management and creating increasedpublic awarenesso f
the significance and socioeconomic importance of biodiversity. The 10 areas of importance for
biodiversity where these demonstration areas would be established were defined duringpreparation,
basedupon a generation o f a biological vision and eco-regional planningof the project's intervention
areas, and are detailed inthe Operation Manual. These pilot demonstration areas would be developed
jointly with small- and medium-sized local farmers and therefore are expectedto remain inplace after
project completion, given that farmers would be partners inthese activities. The existence of areas of
importance for biodiversity conservation as derived form the current 31sites identified nation-wide and
the vision generatedbythisprojectwould set upthe basisfor a zoningofthe country inwhich
vulnerability, aptitudes and potentials would be amalgamated in ajoint vision.


3. Support Services (US$ 3.86 million,or 4.0% of total project costs)

 16.     The main objective ofthis component is to develop support servicesthat would contributeto the
efficient implementation o f sub-projects financed under the previous two components. Activities to be
financed under this component would include training of farmers, institutional strengthening o f local and
central authorities, appliedresearch, and specialized training for technical staff providing technical
assistanceto farmers. GEF Fundswould reinforce the skills of institutions responsible for biodiversity
conservation, would increasethe capacity to support sub-regional needs in biodiversity conservation and
create internationalawarenessof the project's concepts and achievements. This component would also
improve the national capacity to prepare a successful project on carbon balance, enhance the potential of
the already existing GIs andthe overall naturalresourcesmanagement capacity ofthe public and private
sector.



 17.     The proposed component is dividedinto four sub-components:


                                                       40

        Institutional Stren~hening(US$ 1.45 million): the project-financed institutional strengthening
        programwill focused on RENARE(Direccidn de RecursosNaturales Renovables) to increasethe
        efficiency with which to carry out its mandate inthe field of naturalresources and biodiversity
        conservation and management, as well as strengthenits support to the Project ExecutingUnit. In
        principle, the project would finance: (i) upgradedcomputerized system, including upgraded
                                                 an
        software, to improve the general administration as well as the coordination o ftechnical activities
        between the RENAREheadquartersand the 9 regionaloffices; (ii) upgraded programof
                                                                             an
        technology transfer and dissemination of soil andwater conservation issues; (iii)    consultant
        services; and (iv) upgrading of RENARE's Soil and Water Laboratory.

        Natural ResourcesManagement Instruments(US$380,000): includes: (i)             upgrading of the
        borrower's Geographical lnformation System(GIS) developed under PRENADER, (ii)             improve
        the biologicalvision ofthe Biodiversity Pilot Areas, inorder to promote better knowledge about
        flora and fauna; and (iii)Eco-Regional Planningactivities to be carried out inthe country.

        Training (US$ 1.83 million): The project will promote several training activities: (i)   for
        professionals who will provide technical assistance to beneficiaries for sub-project preparation
        and implementation; (ii)  for producers (final beneficiaries) ininnovative forms of biodiversity use
        and improved natural resource managementtechniques, certification, easements, landtax
        exemptions; (iii) employees of the RENAREand the PEU; and (iv) for employees of other
                           for
        public agenciesparticipantinthe project. The training programwould be deliveredthrough: (a)
        courses; (b) seminars; (c) workshops; (d) fieldtrips; and (e) twinningof institutions.

        Studies andAmlied ResearchWS$200.000): The Project would finance studies to improve the
        natural resources managementpolicy framework andto cover other subjects relevant to the
        project that would be identifiedby MGAP. Similarly, the project would finance applied research
        proposals to develop improvednatural managementpractices inareas with particularly difficult
        conditions, that be would submitted to the PEUduringthe first year of project implementation.

4. ProjectExecutingUnit (US$2.61 million, or 3.0% of total project costs)

18,     The objective ofthis component is to guarantee a sound and efficient management ofthe Project
and includes 3 (three) sub-components:

   a) Proiect ExecutingUnit, including staff and operation costs. The MGAP will establish a PEU to
        manage and coordinate project execution. The Unitwould include: (i)         an agronomist, as PEU
        Director; (ii) two agronomist to coordinate the execution o f agricultural sustainable development
        activities and biodiversity conservation activities; (iii)
                                                                 a social scientist to coordinate socio-
        economic activities promotedby the project; (iv) an accountant and an assistant accountant
        responsible for financial management of the project; (v) a procurement specialist; (vi) a computer
        expert to operatethe Monitoringand Evaluation(M&E) System; (vii) two technical assistants;
        and (viii) one secretary. The final composition ofthe PEUwill be agreedduringnegotiations.

   b) Monitoring and EvaluationSystem (US$92.000): The MGAP will present at negotiations the set
        o f indicators to be usedby the M&E System. These indicators would include, at least: (i)
        managementindicators; (ii)    efficiency or project execution indicators, and (iii) indicators.
                                                                                           impact

   c) Public Informationand DisseminationProgram: The project would finance the design and
        implementation o f a public information and dissemination program of potential project activities,
        focused inthe priority areas, with the objective of informing the general public, political leaders,
        beneficiaries and its associations, and media on the rules o fthe project, the value of biodiversity


                                                      41

and the need for conserving and maintainingthe naturalresources. The final content ofthe
program will be developed and included inthe final version of the Operational Manual




                                           42

                                          Annex 5: ProjectCosts
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject




                                                                  (US%
             Project Cost By Component and/or Activity            '000)
                                                         Local   Foreign        Total

          A. NaturalResources andBiodiversity
          Management                                    74,403.8 13,225.2        87,629.0
          B.Pilot Areas                                  1,500.0                  1,500.0
          C. InstitutionalStrengtheningand Training
             InstitutionalStrengthening                    648.1    820.1         1,468.2
             GIS                                           177.0    175.0           352.0
             Training                                    1,607.6    186.8         1,794.3
              SubtotalInstitutionalStrengtheningand
                                              Training   2,432.6  1,181.9         3,614.5
          D.ProjectUnit
             ExecutingUnit                               2,259.3    184.3         2,443.6
             Monitoringand Evaluation                       35.1     49.4              84.5
                                  SubtotalProjectUnit    2,294.4    233.7         2,528.1
                                                        80,630.8 14,640.8        95,271.6
             PhysicalContingencies                          89.0     27.9           117.0
             Pricecontingencies                            420.3     45.4           465.7
             TOTAL PROJECT COST'                        81,140.1 14,714.2        95,854.3
             Front-endFee                                           150.0
             TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED*                           37,000.0




  Identifiabletaxes and duties are US$m 8.5 andthe total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$m 87.4. The
*shareof project cost net oftaxes is therefore 91%.
  IncludingUS$30.0 million of Bank loan andUS$ 7.0 million of GEF Grant




                                                      43

                                Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
         URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject

MainPerformanceMonitoringIndicators

ProjectImplementation

1.      The project's main objective is to assist the government inits efforts to promote the adoption of
integrated natural resourcesmanagement systems, while at the same time ensuring increasedincome for
beneficiaries, thus contributing to the longterm sustainability o fthe sector. These efforts would require a
partnership betweenthe public and private sectors as well as effective institutionalcollaborationwithin
the public sector, and the strengthening o f a demand-driven approach to investment decisions and
financing.

2.      MGAPwill have overallresponsibility for the managementofthe project, withthe collaboration
o f DINAMA inbiodiversity related activities, with special reference to studies on biodiversity and carbon
sequestration issues. Inthe operationand implementationof the project, MGAPwill be assistedby a
Project ExecutingUnit,which will be created within the office ofthe minister. Duringproject
implementation, the PEUwill be assistedby RENARE.

3,      AnInter-ministerialCoordination Committee (ICC), leadbythe Minister ofLivestock,
Agriculture and Fishery and including the Minister o fHousing, Territorial Planning and Environment,
and the Director ofthe Office of Planning and Budget (Ojcinade Planeamientoy Presupuesto,OPP),
will be created. The mainresponsibilitiesofthe ICCwould beto coordinate project activities with other
MGAP programs, definethe policy framework within which project implementationwill take place, and
discussthe main policy and budget issues relatedto the project.

4.      Project investmentproposals (subprojects) are expectedto be demand-driven, with decisions
regardingthe type of investment sub-projects to be submittedto the project authorities for financing
resting with beneficiaries. Privatetechnical assistancewould be available to assistbeneficiaries with the
preparation and execution of investment proposals.

5.      The project's financial assistanceto beneficiaries would be managedbythe PEU. Additionally,
the PEU, with the assistanceof RENARE, would managethe special pilot projects as well as all activities
withinthe institutional strengthening component.

OperationalFlow

6.      For Negotiations, MGAPpresentedto the Bank draft versions of: (i)       legal and institutional
documents, including the composition o fthe PEU; (ii) Operational Manual; (iii) Training Plan;
                                                        the                            the
and (iv) the set of Monitoringand EvaluationIndicators.

7.      As a conditiono f Effectiveness the MGAP would presentto the Bank the final versions ofthe
above documents.

8.      For demand-driven sub-projects, the Public Informationand Dissemination Planwould be
implementedduringthe first 6 months o fproject implementation, including designing and launchingthe
Web-page of the project and promoting regional andthematic information seminars.

9.      Additionally, the training program would be implementedduringthe same period. Startingwith
those training activities relatedto beneficiaries, PEU and RENAREstaff. Finally, duringthe first 12


                                                      44

months o fthe projectthe PEU, with the assistance of RENARE,would also prepare and promote the Pilot
Areas.

10.      Itis assumedthat beneficiaries would require between 60 and 90 daysto preparetheirproposals
according to the rules of the Operational Manual. Requestsfor technical assistance for sub-project
preparation and guidance with the submission of proposals would be addresseddirectly to one o fthe 9
regionaloffices ofthe RENARE or the PEU. The regionaloffice would be also the recipients of
proposals to be submitted for financing. The RegionalOffices o f RENARE, after receiving the sub-
projects, would carry out a preliminary review ofthe proposals, with special reference to soil and water
conservation issues. The subprojects would be discussed also at a regional instance, such as the "Rural
Development Tables" or similar institutionalarrangement.

11.      The Regional Offices of RENAREwould then proceedto sendthe proposals to the PEU, together
with its ownpreliminary assessment. The PEUwouldcomplete the evaluation and selection procedures.

12.      The PEU would sign the contracts with beneficiaries directly or with their associations.

13.      Duringthe execution ofthe sub-project, the Monitoring andEvaluationSystemwouldbe
operatedwith the participation of beneficiaries and professionals providingthe respective technical
assistance(to generate the sub-project indicators), the PEU(to generate management indicators) and the
RENARE(to generate impact indicators).




                                                     45

                  Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject



GeneralSummary

1,       This Annex states the findings and agreementsatthe moment ofthe PAD distribution and will be
updated whenthe assessment i s completed. The FMAssessment takes into consideration Project
ExecutingUnit's (PEU) considerable experience inBank financed projects.

2.       The project will be implemented by a Project ExecutingUnit's (PEU) under the Ministryof
Livestock, Agriculture andFishery (MGAP), which would be the contact point with the Bank. This
mechanism has already been implemented intwo Bank financed projects:

L3697 -(PO08173) Natural ResourcesManagement and Irrigation Development Project (PRENADER) -
Effectiveness: 06/30/1994 -Closing: 12/31/02; Loanamount: $40.85 million dollars.
L7070 -(P074543) Foot & MouthDiseaseEmergency RecoveryLoan-Effectiveness: 08/30/2001-
Loan Amount $18.5 million dollars. This project i s still under implementation.

3.       MGAPthrough the referred PEU, the executing agency ofthis operation, hasthe requisite
institutional capacity and human resourcesrequired for project administration. The project Financial
Management design i s basedon the previously implementedproject. However, from the review ofthe
lessons learned andthe PEU's execution experience some opportunities for improvement infinancial
management matters have arisen. These opportunities were taken into account inthe design o fthis
project. The assessment would result ina detailedAction Planwith Financial Management improvement
actions that will be agreedwith the counterparts for its full implementationprior to loaneffectiveness.

4.       The mainissues identifiedto be includedinthe actionplanare:

    (i)CreateaspecificbudgetlineintheMGAPbudgettokeeptrackofprojectexecutionseparated
         from other MGAP execution.
    (ii)Adapttheexistingfinancialinformationsystemtoprojectrequirements(adjustchartofaccounts
         and possibility of put inplace an IntegratedFMand Monitoring System).
    (iii) ontheformatfortheFinancialManagementReports(FMR)formonitoringandevaluation
         Agree
         purposes.
    (iv) Reach an agreementonthe proposed external auditors (Tribunal de Cuentasde laRepcblica) and
         preparethe terms o freference for the required external auditing process.
    (v) Adjustthe existing Operational Manual, includingthe detailed procedures for the internalcontrol
         systemto be implemented.
    (vi) Agree on the disbursementarrangements for the use ofthe special account (SA), and counterpart
         funds accordinglyto Bankpolicies and procedures.

5.       The actionplan is part ofthe financial management assessment includedinthis document.

Use of Funds

6.       All funds will be processedunder the PublicAdministration Control Framework (SIIF -Sistema
Integrado de Informacih Financiera), and inthe PEU accounting system, and supported by documentary
evidence for works, goods and services procured inline with Bank guidelines for the project.




                                                    46

Executing Agency and theProject

7.      The financial managementarrangements including: accounting, budgeting, internal control,
external auditing, financial monitoringreports preparation and disbursementwill be carried out by the
PEU. Project accounting will also be keptby the PEU.

8.      The proposed arrangementson organization were found acceptable, andMGAP has provided
evidence of the assignment o f skilledstaffto the financial managementUnit.

Financial Management Information System

9.      The PEU will maintainthe accountsfor the project inits own accounting systemwith the chart of
accountsreflecting the categories and components ofthe project (this is part of an Action Plan). The PEU
will also maintainan adequate asset ledger for the project. The accrual basis will be usedfor internal
reporting and the FMRs. The InternationalAccounting Standards (IAS) will be followed.

10.     Interms of financial monitoring, the PEUwill preparethe followingreports: (i)summary of
                                                                                         a
uses and sources of funds and a statement o f uses by project activity; (ii)
                                                                           procurement monitoringreports,
and (iii)Output monitoring reports, all inaccordancewith formats to be agreed upon at effectiveness, the
completion of which will be part of an Action Plan. Additionally, the PEUwill prepare annual financial
statements in line with the Bank requirements.

11.     The PEUwill beresponsible for the financial managemento fthe project, including accounting,
timely submission ofthe FinancialManagement Reports (FMRs), annual audits anddisbursements and
will recordall transactions inits system. The FMRswill be submitted semiannually to the Bank. The
physicalprogress indicators and the timingo fthe FMRswill be consulted with the TTL to ensure the
usefulness of the FMRs inthe overall project supervision.

DisbursementArrangements

12.     Loan and Grant proceedswould be disbursed against the following expenditure categories:




                                                     47

  Project Cost By Category                  Amounts       YOofBank           Amounts           YoofGEF
~




                                            allocated      Financing      allocated GEF        Financing
                                              ltoitn                                                    / +


I 1. Goods/Works/Services for Sub- I                     I              I                 I                  I
  projects
    1.1Natural Resources
  Management Subprojects

   1.2 Biodiversity Subprojects                                 -              5.8                 95
  2. Goods                                     0.6             95
  3. Consultant Services
    3.1 Services for NaturalResources
  Management                                   2.8            100
    3.2 Services for Biodiversity
  Conservation                                                                  0.4                100
  4. OperatingCosts                             1.o            70               0.3                30
   5. Unallocated                              2.45                             0.5
   6. Front-end-fee                            0.15

 I Total Proiect Costs cUS%million)            30.0            96               7.0                96

   13.     Special Accounts indollars will be established inthe Central Bank of Uruguay (BCRU) with an
   authorized allocation ofUS$3.0 million for the loanand $0.7 million for the grant to cover six months of
   local currency operations. As expenditures arise, funds will be converted monthly to local currency and
   deposited into an account inthe Banco RepGblicaunder the administration of the PEU. The PEUwill
   make payments from this account and follow the formal procedures to control payments as ruledby the
   Contraloria de la RepGblica. Special provisionswill be established to ensure that the loan funds inthe
   BCRU are promptly transferred after the PEUrequest.

   14.     The financial management and reporting system for the project meets the requirements o f the
   Bank, including accounting and budgeting, preparation o f financial reports, and auditing in accordance
   with internationalaccounting and auditing standards.

  SpecialAccount arrangements:

   15.     Use o f statements of expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements will be made on the basis of
  traditional Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) and Direct Withdrawal Applications (DWAs) as well. In
   the case ofthe latter, disbursementswill be made on the basis o f full documentation for all expenditures
   made under contracts requiring priorreviewby the Bank, and contracts whose value would surpass the
   prior review limits as a result of amendments. All consolidated SOEs documentation will be maintained
   bythe PEUfor post-review and audit purposesfor at least one year after the final withdrawal fromthe
   loan. Whenever possible, reimbursement requestsshouldbe sent to the Bank on a monthly basis.

   16.     Replenishment: Applications for replenishment would be submittedmonthly or whenever the
   account needs to be replenished by a1least 50%. Replenishments, upto the Authorized Allocation(s) will
   be made initially on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the
   supporting and other documentation specified inthe DisbursementHandbook. The project will request


                                                       48

   access to Bank's Client Connection webpage to get the 1903 Form from the web andto perform on a
   periodic basis the reconciliationprocessbetweentheir bank account andthe resources received.

   Project Financial StatementAudit Arrangements

   17.     The project financial statements audit will be performed under Terms of Reference prepared in
   line with Bank Guidelines by the Tribunal de Cuentas de la Rephblica (TCR). The audit would cover all
   fundingand expenditures reportedinthe projectfinancial statements. The government has indicated that
   itwill proposeTCR for this purpose.

   Risk Analysis

   18.     Steps pendinginthe financial managementarrangements include:



              Action                     ResponsibleEntity                   Completion Date
1, Final OperationalManual                      MGAP                 Before Effectiveness
satisfactory to the Bank
2. Accounting Plan satisfactory to              MGAP                 Before Effectiveness
the Bank
3. FMRformat satisfactory to the                MGAP                 Before Effectiveness




                                                       49

                                  Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject

                                         ProcurementAssessment

Introduction,

1.       Thisreport keepsrecords ofthe findingsofthe review ofthe implementation capacity of existing
institutional structures within the Ministerio de Ganaderia, Agricultura y Pesca-MGAP. The assessment
was carriedout by Emilio Rodriguez, Consultant, LCOPR, at the request of the Task Team Leader,
Michael Carroll. The assessmentand the actions proposed inthe Plan o f Action were discussedwiththe
Project preparation staff, who inprinciple agreedto the main mission findings.The Action Plan,
discussedwith the Project authorities at appraisal and the recommended actions will be incorporated as
Project components and funded through the Grant, as required.

2.       The objectives of the assessmentwere: (a) to evaluate the capability o f the implementation
agencies andthe adequacy of procurement andrelated systems inplace to administer procurement in
general, and Bank-financedprocurement inparticular; (b) to assessthe risks that may negatively affect
the ability ofthe agencyto carry out procurement; (c) to develop anaction planto diminishexistingrisks;
and (d) to propose a suitable Bank procurement supervision plan.

3.       The Project would aim at developingsystemic and institutionalcapacities of government agencies
and other stakeholders, management procedures, disseminate relevant knowledge, and promote
partnership buildingbetween agencies, local communities, and the private sector that securebiodiversity
conservation. The Project is composed ofthe following: (a) aNatural Resources and Biodiversity
Management Component, which would providetechnical and financial assistanceto farmers; (b)
establishment of Pilot Areas to carry out demonstrations o f sustainable use o f natural resources; (c)
support services, including training to farmers andtechnical staff, and institutional strengthening; and (d)
project management.

4.       The Project cost, estimated at US$96.0 million, would be financed as follows: (a) a US$ 7.0
million grant from the GEF, US$ 30.0 million by a Bank loan, US$ 56.0 million by beneficiaries'
contributions, and US$3.0 million bythe Government. 90% of the Project cost would finance sub-
projects executed by farmers, 1%would finance purchaseo f goods, and 6% would be utilized to hire
consultant services, while the remaining 3% to contract non-consultant services.

5.       Procurement to be implementedinthe Project implementation period(2005-11) is organized as
follows: (a) The Natural Resourcesand Biodiversity Management Component consists of small loans to
farmers to finance small works and small value goods, and technical assistance contracted through
commercialpractices; (b) almost all assignments for consultant services will be contracted with individual
consultants selectedfrom three candidates on the basiso f their qualifications. Ifrequired, small contracts
with consultant firms, may bemade andthe consultants then usedwould also be selectedalso onthe basis
of their qualifications; (c) non consultant services, mostly for training and organizationo ftraining and
consultation events, will be bidand awarded to the lowest offer; (d) procurement for goods consists of
small packagesto be contracted by shopping.

Background

 6.      Projectmanagement for preparation and implementation is the responsibility of the MGAP.
Regarding procurement, the MGAP will be responsible for: (a) carrying out procurement under
 components 2 and 3; and (b) the overall supervision and control o fthe procurementcarried out by farmers

                                                      50

under component 1.Direct supervision of procurement carried out by farmers will be carried out with
assistancefrom the regionaloffices of the DireccionGeneral de RecursosRenovables-RENARE. The
staff o f these offices will be strengthenedby individual consultants.

7.        To discharge the responsibilities to managethe Project, the MGAP will make use of a project
unit-PEU, which has been incharge ofthe preparationand implementationo fthe previous Bank projects.
The implementationofthe requiredprocurement underbothprojects has beensatisfactory. PEUis staffed
with seasoned professionals, with experience inimplementingBank-financedprojects, and would beable
to fulfill the requirements of the Project. Two aspects, however, should be taken into account to make the
assessment o fthe capabilities of PEUfor procurement. Project implementationwill be heavily
decentralized as compared with the two previous Bank projects. For this reason, a well designed
management system should be inplace to prevent overloads andthe resulting delays of Project
implementation. Recent changes inGovernment have resulted inchangeso f PEUstaff, and staff
experienced inthe implementation of Bank-financedprojects are beingsubstitutedby staff that, although
qualified, have less experience. The Plan of Action includes recommendations to mitigate the impact o f
the changes.

CapacityAssessment

8.        The capacity reviewfollows the Bank's instructions o fAugust 11, 1998 and includes the
following areas:

          (a) LegalAspects andProcurementPractices. According to Uruguay's legislation(Tocaf- Texto
          Ordenado de Contabilidady Administracion Financieray Normas Concordantesy
          Complementarias-Decree 194-97 of June 10, 1997), there i s precedencefor the use o fthe Bank's
          procurement policies and procedures (clause 42). The MGAP applies the Bank rules consistently.
          Becauseo f the nature of the Natural Resources and Biodiversity Management component, with
          procurement dispersed inrural areas for small components, most procurement will consist of
          abbreviated procedures inaccordance with commercial practices.

          (b) Procurement CycleManagement. (a) Planning. The PEUagreedto preparea procurement
          plan covering the first 18-months o f Project implementation and to update it annually. The plan
           should be submitted at LoanNegotiations. For the procurement basedon commercialpractices,
          the plan will establish only the global advanceo fthe component; (b) Procurement
          Documentation: The Operational Manual, under preparation, will spell out the kindof documents
          to be used in each case, and the kindof forms for the processes.(c) Bid evaluation: it will be
          carried out by an evaluation committee, assistedas necessary by specialized personnel. (d)
          Contract Management: For the centralized components, will be carried out bythe PEUusingits
          own personnel; for the farmers component it will be carried out by the farmers with RENARE's
          assistance.The review of existingpractices for each phase of the procurement cycle, and the
          assessment o fthe quality andtimeliness ofthese practices is summarized ina table attachedto
          this report. The adjustment ofthesepractices to the requirements ofthe Project are summarized in
          the table, and inthe ActionPlan, summarizedbelow.

          (c) Support and ControlSystems: (a) audit: all operations are auditedbythe Tribunal de Cuentas
          de la Rep6blica. The audit will cover all fundingand expenditures reported inthe Project
          financial statements. Also, specific audits are made, upon request, by the Auditoria Internade la
          Nacion; (b) project management system: a comprehensive system to handle administrative,
          financial, procurement anddisbursement data, and able to produce managementreports will be
          established prior to the end of 1995.This system would be critical for the supervision and control
          of Project activities, especially regardingthe farmer's credit component; (c) a Project monitoring


                                                       51

        and evaluation systemwill be developed duringthe first year o fProject execution. The full list of
        performance'indicators as well as the monitoring planwill be submitted at Loannegotiations; (d)
        an operational manual is under preparation, and a draft version would be submitted at
        Negotiations. Inthe chapter for procurement, the Manualwill include a descriptiono f Project's
        procurement; the institutionalresponsibilities for carrying out procurement, the applicable
        guidelines, the procurement procedures for the Project, the procurement plan, relation and
        samples o f biddingdocuments, outline for TORS,forms for evaluation of proposals, and,
        documents on files.

        (d) RecordKeeping: Availability, security and completenessofprocurement records inMGAP
        are satisfactory.

        (e) Stafing: Issues regarding staffing inthe PEUhave been summarized above. To diminishthe
        risks from staff changes, and the'lack of experience for the implementationo f Bank-financed
        projects, the carrying out of a Project launch seminar, including procurement, is recommended.

RiskAssessment

9.      The MGAP has shown efficiency indealingwith projects of similar complexity to thisProject,
and has shown consistency inthe application of rules of procurement adhering to TOCAF andto Bank
guidelines. However, as mentioned above, the decentralized nature of the Project, together with potential
changes o f staff inthe PEU, and the lack o f a management system inplace, contribute to increasing the
level of risksabove average.Accordingly, the Project's procurement system's riskwill be assessed as
high,untilall the recommendations inthe Action Planare implemented.




                                                     52

                                        ProcurementArrangements

Bank-financedworks and contracts will be procured inaccordancewith the World Bank Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,datedMay 2004. Bank-financedcontracts for
consulting services will be procured following the World Bank Guidelines: Selectionand Employment of
Consultantsby WorldBank Borrowers, datedMay 2004.

1.      Procurement under the Project. Bank-financed procurement, to be carriedout inthe Project's
implementationperiod 2005-11, would be organized as follows:

    (a) for natural resourcesand biodiversity management, which consists of small grants to farmers to
        finance small works and small value purchase of goods, to be procuredon the basis of standard
        documentation and procedures, utilizing commercial practices. Sub-projects may also include
        technical assistanceprovided by individual consultants, to be selected on the basis of
        qualifications and experience ofthree qualified consultants. The cost of this component,
        including the pilot areas component, represents about 93% of the total Project cost.

    (b) for support services,whichconsists oftrainingand technicalassistanceto farmers andtechnical
        staff, and institutional strengtheningat local and central level, to be procuredas consultant
        services (mostly providedby individuals) and other services, relatedmostly to training.
        Represent about 4% ofthe total Project cost.

    (c) for the Project Executing Unit-PEU, which consists o f incrementaloperational costs of the Unit
        andRENARE,mostly including purchaseof consumablesand contractingof small packagesof
        services, by shopping. Equipment for improvingthe existing information system may also be
        included. Representabout 3% ofthe total Project cost.

2.      Responsibilitiesfor CarryingoutProcurement. The Project's implementingagency, MGAP,
will be responsible for the execution o f all project components. Regardingprocurement, the MGAP will
be responsible for: (i) carrying out procurement under components (b) and (c); and (ii)overall
supervision and control o f procurement carried out by farmers underthe component (a). Direct
supervision o f activities mentioned in(ii) above, and assistanceto farmers, will be the responsibility o f
thePEU, with the assistanceofRENARE-Direction GeneraldeRecursosRenovables,through its
Regional Offices.

3.      Based on the implementationof the PRENADER Project, as well as the Foot andMouth Disease
Emergency Recovery Project, the PEU is deemedto have adequate institutional capacity to handlethe
procurement requirements from bothprojects. The challenge for the implementation o fthe Project will
be the decentralized nature of its operations, together withthe limitedcapabilities of RENARE's regional
offices insome of the Project areas. The Action Planto BuildProcurement Capacity, presentedlater in
thisAnnex, is designedto address the weaknesses identified duringProject preparation.

4.       ProcurementPlan. The PEUis expectedto prepare a detailed Project implementationschedule
coveringthe implementationperiod 2005-11. This report includes atentative procurement plan, which
identifies categories, methods of procurement and allocation amounts. This tentative planwill be
discussed at negotiations on the basis of the above mentionedimplementation plan.

5.       ProcurementArrangements. Table A, below, summarizes methods and amounts for each
expenditure's category.



                                                       53

                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                          (U%Smillion equivalent)




Goods                                                   0.6                                    0.6
                                                       (0.4)                                  (0.4)
Total                                                   0.6         95.2                      95.8
                                                       (0.4)        (36.6)                    (37.0)

Figuresinparenthesesare the amountsto be financed by the Loanand Grant. All costs include
contingencies. Others include works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting
services, services contracted staff ofthe Project Unit, training, technical assistance services and
incrementaloperating costs relatedto (i)  managing the project, and (ii)  re-lendingproject funds.

6.       Bid Advertisement. A GeneralProcurementNotice (GPN) will be publishedin"Development
Business" which announcesplannedbiddingand invites interested eligible suppliers, contractor and
consultants to express interest andrequest any complementary information from the Borrower. The GPN
will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement. For consultant assignments exceeding U$S
200 000, expressions o f interest will be obtained by advertising in"Development Business" online,
supplemented with notices issued inthe nationalpress.

7.       ProcurementDocumentation. BiddingDocumentsfor NCB and Requestfor Proposal (RFP)
will follow the Bank StandardDocuments. Standarddocuments for shopping will be preparedand agreed
upon prior to Loan effectiveness. A draft OperationalManual will be prepared and submitted at
negotiations, which will include all the Project's procurement arrangements and procedures.

8.       ProcurementReview and Methods. Inview ofthe nature ofthe project's expenditures, prior
review will be rather limited: (a) all contracts for goods underNCB under component (c); (b)
procurement for the first two sub-projects with farmers each year; (c) procurement for consulting
contracts of over US$ 100,000.00; and, (d) procurement or individual consultants and other services of
over U$S 50,000.00. The rest will be subject to ex-post review. The table C presentedbelow summarizes
the thresholds and Bank's prior review. Table B summarizes theconsultant selection arrangements.




                                                      54

Category           QCBS          QBS             SFB            LCS             CQ               Prior Review
Firms               >200                                                      (200                    >loo
Individuals                                                                     all                   >50




Category               ICB              NCB           Shopping      Prior Review              Ex-post Review
Civil Works                                              (250       First/year        Once a year
Goods                                                    (50        First/year
Services                                                 (50             >50




10.        ActionPlanto BuildProcurementCapacity. The following set of actions/recommendations
resultedfrom the analysiswhich has been summarizedinearlier paragraphs, and inan attachmentto this
report. All these actions, which have beenpreliminary agreed with the Borrower, shouldbe confirmed
during LoadGrant Negotiations, shouldbepart of the Projectdocuments and should be completed
accordingthe time-frame indicatedinthe table below.

Description                            1
Hirina full-time procurementspecialist I Achieve procurementefficiency and
                                         Objective                            IITime-frame
                                                                                Proiect Effectiveness
forPIEU                                  coaching Projectstaff
Training staff in Bank'sprocurement      Make known procurementfor Bank-        Project Launch Seminar
                                         financed projects
Preparation OperationalManual            Define and communicate Project         Project Effectiveness
                                         operational rules
Carryingout Project Launch               Same as above                          Within thirty days of Effectiveness
Workshop
Establishmentof ProjectInformation       Monitor and control Project            Prior to December 31,2005
System                                   implementation

11.        Recommended Projectthresholds:(a) it is not expectedto have ICBs under the Project. For ICB,
the equivalentof US$3.0 million for works andUS$250,000.00 for goods. NCB: > US$3.0 million for
civil works and>US$250,000.00 for goods. The rest will be shopping.

12.        Procurementprocedureswith firms: QCBS over US$200,000.00. The rest, andfor contractswith
individual consultants, will be CQ.

13.        In view ofthe natureofthe Project's expenditures, prior review will berather limited: (a) all
contracts for goods and civil works under component (c); (b) procurementfor the first subproject with
farmers each year; (c) procurementfor consultantcontractswith firms over US$ 100,000.00; and, (d)
procurementfor individual consultantsand other servicesof over US$ 50 000.00, The rest will be subject
to ex-post review, which will take place once ayear.




                                                               55

                                Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject

Summary ofBenefitsand Cost:

1.       The project would providetechnical andfinancial assistanceand training to some 8,000 mostly
medium- andsmall-sized farmers and livestockproducers to improve naturalresourcesandbiodiversity
management and ensure the sustainability o f crop and livestock production systems inan increasingly
open economy. As a resultof project activities, over 1.O millionhectares are expected to benefitfrom
improved naturalresourcesmanagement systems, thus contributingto the conservation of the natural
resource base of the main production systems and the longterms sustainability o f agricultural
development inthe country.

2.       The project would provide technical and financial assistance(on a matching-grant basis) to
demand-driven activities aimed at promoting sustainablemanagement o f natural pasturesandextensive
agriculture; and consolidatingPRENADER activities inirrigated agriculture and dairy farming. The GEF
contribution would support mainstreamed demand for biodiversity initiatives.

3.       The project would provide also training, workshops and field days to nearly 5,000 farmers. The
project activities would be implementednationwide but be determined by beneficiaries demands, with the
exception o f GEF-supported activities which will be concentrated inareas of particular importance from
the viewpoint ofbiodiversity. The technical and economic viability of investment proposals submitted
for financing by beneficiaries and the definition of investment priorities would be assessedapplying
simple and easily verifiable criteria established inthe OperationManual. Inany case, no investment
proposal with an ERRo f lessthan 10% would be eligible for financing underthe project.

4.       Economic benefits ofthe project would be the result of increased agricultural and livestock
production as well as a sustainableuse of biodiversity o f importance to agriculture. Froman analysis of a
sample of farm models it can be concluded that small and medium-sizedcommercial farmers would see a
significant increase intheir on-farm income as a result o f the investments financed by this project.

5.       The projectwould also promote private sector participationinthe provision o fproduction support
services, particularly technical assistanceto producers, which i s expected to increase the impact o f
project-financed on-farm investments.

6.       Sustainability of project benefits is expectedto be high, given that the increase inphysical assets
would be complemented with improvements insocial and human capital through training, technical
assistance, organization and better access to financial, marketingand technological services. Over 70%
of project resourcesare likelyto be channeled to investments that are orientedto the adoption o f
integrated production systems and improved natural resources andbiodiversity management activities
demandedby beneficiaries, while an additional 18% would be allocated to technical assistanceand
training of the target population. The combination o f farmers participatinginthe investment decision-
making processand inproject implementation is expected to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of
public expenditure.

7.       Total project cost, including farmers' contributions, has been estimated at about US$ 96 million.
The World Bank loanwould be US$30 million; the GEF Grant would be about US$7.0 million;
Government counterpart funds would be about US$3.O million; while beneficiaries' contributions would
finance the remainingUS$56.0 million.




                                                      56

MainAssumptions:

EconomicAnalysis

8.      Given the demand-driven nature of activitiesto be executedunder the project, the exact
composition o fthe portfolio of investment sub-projects that will be financed under the project cannot be
determinedapriori. Consequently, as only activities identifiedand presentedby potential beneficiaries
would be considered, an ex-ante determination of costs andbenefits ofproductive investments would not
be feasible. Therefore, economic return estimateswere basedonly on a sample of investment sub-
projects likely to be demanded by beneficiaries, following the experience of PRENADER. The impact of
these investments on natural resourcesand biodiversity management, agriculturalproductivity and
farmers' incomes was analyzedwith the help of farm models illustrative oftypical farming situations in
the mainagro-ecological zones, and situations inwhich biodiversity was mainstreamed into the farmers
investment decisions. Assumptions regarding yield increases are conservative to reflect farmers'
characteristic risk-minimizing production strategies. The estimated overall rate of returnofthe project i s
estimated at about 22.5%. Although the estimated rate of returntook into consideration only part, albeit a
substantial part, o fthe possible investmentsto be financed under the project, it provides an order o f
magnitude of the economic returns that can be expected from the proposed project.

9.      Economic return calculations includedthe cost o f incremental on-farm productive investment and
recurrent expenditure for the adoption of sustainableagricultural production systems promotedunder the
project. The analysis of the sample of representative subprojects indicatedthat, inthe majority o f cases,
economic returns on investmentsby crop farmers and livestock producers are likelyto be above 18% (See
Table below). Farmmodels with ERRSof less than 10% were excluded from the analysis as this would
be the minimumrate of returnthat any sub-project would have to have inorder to be eligible for
financing under the proposed project.

10.     PricingAssumptions: Price contingencies were excluded and base costs plusphysical
contingencies less taxes were usedfor the IERR. Giventhe policy reforms and the opening of the
economy that have beentaking place since the early 1990s, the rate of exchange o fthe Uruguayan Peso is
currently determined inthe open market and trade restrictions have been gradually lowered and domestic
prices tend to correspond much closer to border economic values. For the purposeso f economic analysis,
border prices were estimated for the maintradable products created bythe project, basedon OPYPA
projections. While the project would increase on-farm and off-farm employment inthe priority areas,
unemployment andunder-employment would not be eliminated. Therefore, shadow prices for unskilled
labor were estimated at 80% of the market wage rate while for skilled labor the market rate was assumed
to reflect its opportunity cost.

FinancialAnalysis

11.     A financial analysis was carriedout to assess the financialviability of a sample ofproductive
investments most likely to be demandedby irrigation farmers, along the same lines followed for the
economic analysis. The financial viability o fthese investments was analyzed withinthe framework o f the
most common production systems used by producers with the same set of farm models as those prepared
for the economic analysis. As is to be expected, given the level of subsidy provided, the selectedfarm
model showed relatively highfinancial rates of return (>25%). Inputand output prices were assumed
constant, as was the real exchange rate, throughout the 20 year time horizon usedinthe financial analysis.
The discount rate was assumedto be10%.




                                                      57

12.      FiscalImpact. The counterpart contribution ofthe GOUto the project is US$3.0 million, over a
period of 6 years. Most of these resources(US$ 1.7 million) would be for the Natural Resources
Management Component. The rest would finance part of the Institutional Strengthening Component (US$
0.7 million) andthe Project ExecutingUnit(US$ 0.6 million). Project-generated revenues from indirect
taxes would be about US$ 8.5 million, while the overall subsidies allocated through the matching-grant
systemwould represent about US$26.0million, includingthe GEF Grant for biodiversity-related
activities.

                                                                      W P Cash

-1.
Models                                                   Investment       H;      FRR%        ERR%
p_
                                               No.Ha        PerHa
  Traditional rice/liuestock system                2.200         50            71       17.7   17.2
3, Small livestock Droducer. whasture                900         31            14      49.4    19.4
4. Small livestock producer, w/o pasture             900         14            11       22.9    11.8
5, Large livestock producer, w/pasture             1,550         20            15       39.5   22.8
6. Large livestock producer, wlo pasture           1,550          4            13       32.3   24.0
7. Livestock Droduction (Full cvcle) w/o irrig.    1.062         36            16       21.0   20.5
8. Livestock production (Fullcycle) wl irrig.      1,060         69            23       16.3    15.6
9. LivestocWcrops with pastures                      700         66           124       59.7    49.4
10. LivestocWcrops w/ pasturesand irrigation         700         191          141       30.0    30.4
-14. -
11.LivestocWcrous without Pastures                   700         60            121      28.6    26.6
 13, Small dairy farmer                               79         172-        --90       26.9    21.6
                                                             A
     Medium dairy farmer
              -                                      326        291            130      39.1    35.1
 15, Medium dairy farmer whrrigation                 326         352           155      20.7    33.0
 16.Horticulture I                                     11      1,457        1,257       83.8    32.9
 17. Horticulture I1                                    7      1.957         1.206      81.0    40.4
 18. Fruits                                            17      8,722        2,662       18.3    16.9
 19. Vineyard whrrigation
          - -         P


                                                        6    -- -
                                                               6,980         1,986      22.1    16.8
20. Citrus w/irrigation                              100       1,627         1,243      17.8    17.4




                                                   58

                                    Annex 10: Safeguard PolicyIssues
                                        (Environmental Assessment)

          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject

ProjectImpact

1.       The project has four renewable resourcemanagementcomponents within two main inter-related
areas: first, the improvement of sustainableproduction and management of soil and water under three
farming systems (irrigation, dryland croppingand extensive livestock production); and second,
conservation and use of biodiversity, principally within the extensive livestock zone whichcovers 15
million ha-over 80% of the country. It is designedas a follow-up to the PRENADERprogramwhich
was executed between 1993 and 2002 and was basically oriented to improving environmental
managementthrough consolidation and expansion of irrigation for dairy, fruit, vegetables, rice and other
annual crops. Although the present project shares this objective, it has been greatly expandedto address
the general question ofintegratedrenewable naturalresource management at the national levelwith a
significant focus on conservation and use of biodiversity. Thus, the primary objective i s improvement in
environmental quality. Since this i s the expected outcome, it does not qualify as a positive "impact". The
standardaim of environmental impactassessment(EM) is identification of unplanned externalities which
may positively or negatively alter the rate of change inthe state of physical and biological systems; and
specification o f measures to mitigate negative or enhance positive externalities. Ofthe four components
which directly relate to use and conservation of naturalresources, only one -irrigation-poses any
significant riskof negative environmental impact. Nevertheless, the project will ensure effective
environmental screening inthe four components with introductionand enforcement o f mitigative
measures and applicationof baseline studies and M&Eto yield insightson change inenvironmental
quality which may be attributable to project-funded activities, particularly inthose components where
sub-projects are oriented to a landscapeapproach.

BankSafeguards

2.        There are ten Operational Policy (OP) statements covering safeguards inthe project cycle
required for environmental and socio-culturalaspects. O fthese, only EnvironmentalAssessment (OP
4.01) is relevant to the project.

ImpactAssessment

3.        As a sectoral project where the financing of specific sub-projects will beexamined on a case by
case basis duringimplementation, environmentalimpact hinges on: (i) each sub-project i s assessed
                                                                          how
with respectto potential environmentalconsequencesleadingto rejection, acceptance, redesign or
acceptancesubject to mitigation measures; and (ii)   the probability that there is an institutional structure in
place which can implement EL4recommendations.

4.        The design ofbothEL4and procedures for implementation is drawn from experience gained in
PRENADER. That experience has been thoroughly and transparently evaluated with respectto what and
how environmental assessmentwas applied and the outcome interms o f resource management. There has
beensignificant improvementinthe quality of land and water resourcesand little evidence of
environmental degradation attributable to the project-fundedactivities. However, isolated cases were
identified where performance could have been improved: notably inaspects such as soil management
under irrigation, treatment of manure effluents on dairy farms and flooding o f native forest areas. Lessons
learned have ledto the introduction of a number of measuresto deal with such shortfalls - a "blacklist",



                                                      59

specifying activities which are ineligible for funding, improved technical assistanceand better
specification o f baseline situations.

5.       Regardless ofthe nature of sub-projects proposed for financing through the $64.3 millionNatural
Resource Management andBiodiversity component, all will be subject to initial screening on the basis of
a blacklist and a checklist. The blacklist will be usedto disqualify sub-projects (or selectedcomponents
contained therein) which impinge on prohibited activities, such as: flooding or conversion o f areas in
native forest or highbiodiversity value (HBV) native pastureto other uses; use of illegal agrochemicals;
drainage of wetlands; or road construction. The full list will be specified inthe Operations Manual. The
checklist of potential environmental impacts will also be specified inthe Operations Manual.

6.       For the component which addressesresource management inconsolidation and expansion of
irrigation, the EIA methodology tested andrefined inPRENADERover the past decade will be applied.
Duringthat time less than 3% of the 2040 irrigation works financed were ofa size which requireda
DINAMA-approved EIA. The same focus on small and medium size farms will be retained inthis
project. Thus, it is expectedthat environmental assessment of water supply, storage and distribution
investments will be minimal. However, experience suggests that particular attention be paidto water use
and soil management under irrigation, use of pesticides and other agro-chemicals, treatment and disposal
o f manure on dairy farms, and potentialupstreaddownstream conflicts related to quantity (flows) and
quality of surface and ground water. Inthis latter area, linkages to downstream wetlands will receive
special treatment. As inthe case ofthe previous operation, no irrigation projects will be approved where
they are shownto have potentialto alter the water regime withinthe Ramsar Treaty area inthe
Departments o f Rocha and Treinta y Tres.

7.       EIA insub-projects withinthe component dealingwith resourcemanagement inzones ofdryland
agriculture is expected to be relatively straightforward. Most activities will address conservation of soil
and water e.g. contour seeding, reduced soil compactionandminimumtill. Inthose cases where large
areas are involved, or where topographic change i s contemplated e.g. land leveling, more intensiveEIA
will be required.

8.       Inthe component for improved resourcemanagement inzonesusedfor livestock production, it is
anticipated that the EIAwill rarely go beyond the checklist stage. More detailed work may be needed
where sub-projects include works for water supply (dams, wells and conveyance) in small-scale irrigation

Resources and Biodiversity Management" - under which $9.5 million of grant fundingwill be available to
or stock drinkingwater. This component has a direct interface with the fourth component, - "Natural

promote sustainable use of biodiversity in savanna and native forest zones. The fragmented mosaic of
savanna, other grassland, gallery forest and spiny woodland ecosystems(85% o fthe country) constitutes
the zone of the extensive livestock production component. Within this zone, GEF has identified ten
priority areas which are characterized as being relatively undisturbedandcontaining HBV. These areas
provide the bases for developingdemonstration landscapeapproachesto integrated sustainable natural
resource management, where the prime focus is conservation and use ofthreatened biodiversity o f global
importance. These innovative dimensions will demand an iterative approach to assessment. Estimating
the degree to which reduction inthe rate of degradation or enhancement of biodiversity, and associated
soil and water resources, may be attributable to the specific activities will draw on invaluable insights
from the micro-catchment component of the previous project. The lessonshave been incorporatedinto a
more rigorous specification of hypotheses on key cause-effect relationships, the baseline indicators and
M&Ework neededto test the hypothesis. The GIS developed byPRENADER, and further strengthened
inthisproject, will be of critical importance. Also the researchproposedon carbon sequestration in
pasturesand methanegeneration from livestock should contribute to the on-going debate on how these
issues impingeon climate change.



                                                      60

Procedures

9.        Proposals from individual farmers or groups, whether submittedthrough regional entities, or

consequences with a self-determined classification rangingfrom "A" - no expected impacts to "C" - a
directly to the Project ExecutingUnit, will be requiredto include a statementon potential environmental

potential for significant impactwhich would require specific mitigatory measures. All proposals will be
screenedby PEU, on the basis ofthe "blacklist", the checklist and other procedures developed inthe
previous project, prior to submission to other government authorities. Those relating to the irrigation
component mustbe approved by the National Hydrological Directorate (DNH) o f the Ministryo f
Transport and Public Works (MTOP) with respectto design of structures and water rights, under Decree
16.858. Approval by the Directorate of Soil and Water (DSA)withinthe Ministryof Livestock,
Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP) is also requiredunder Decree 15.239 for proposed use and
managemento fwater and soils. This latter approval must also be obtained for all sub-projects inthe
extensive agriculture component. Once approved by these entities, or, inthe case o f the extensive
livestock component approved by the PEU, all sub-projects which exceedthe minimumsize and technical
specifications definedinDecree 16.466, mustbe submitted to the NationalDirectorate for Environment
(DINAMA), withinthe MinistryofHousing, Territorial Planningand Environment(MVOTMA). This
entityundertakesa standardreview and issues its findingsonthe self-determined "classification" ofthe
proposal. Inthe event of aB or C classificationit will specify the type of EIA required. This directive
will be sent to the MAGPPEU for action. The PEUwill be responsible for final design and supervision in
execution ofthe EIAs inaccordancewith DINAMA's norms (in coordinationwith the Unitfor Technical
Cooperation Projects -UPCT - and the General Directorate of RenewableNatural Resources-RENARE
- inMGAP) and consistentwiththeproject's environmental assessmentspecifications as defined inthe
Operations Manual. The PEUwill also be responsible for any baseline studies and the M&E. Oversight
o f all these procedureswill be inthe hands of DNHand DSA, and ultimately DINAMA.

Consultation on EnvironmentalIssues

10.       Extensive consultation on incorporating environmental dimensions into project design,
implementation and monitoring, were undertakenprior to and duringthe previous operation. These were
continued inthe process of the Bank's agricultural sector review and inthe preparationofthis project.
This culminated inameetingcalledby MGAP and DINAMAinJuly 2004 attended by approximately 80
representativesof agricultural producer associations, universities, consulting firms, local authorities,
NGOs and central government agencies. All activities proposed for fundingwere discussed. Two similar
meetings, one inthe north andthe other inthe east ofthe country, will be held. The presentation ofthe
minutes from these meetingswill be a conditionof loanapproval.

InstitutionalCapacity

11.       Implementationo fthe environmentalprocedures inthe project and the associatedmonitoring and
ex-post evaluation will principally hinge on the PEU. Itwill be ina positionto contract specialists to
assist inthe various phases of the sub-project cycles. As a result of previous Bank experience inUruguay
applicable to the irrigation component, more attention will be givento the water use and soil management
aspects inthe design phase; the cost o f consultants for sub-project preparation will be advancedto
approved applicants and subsequently incorporated as part ofthe loanto individual farmers or groups;
technical assistance will be made available to all beneficiaries inimplementation of resource management
dimensions oftheir sub-projects. RENARE's capacity will be strengthened inareas o f GIs,
environmental assessment andplanning to enable improvedformulation and implementation of the soil,
water and fauna conservation dimensions o f its mandate. DINAMA and DNHhave the capacity to handle
the project's environmental conditions.



                                                      61

12,    With respect to all four resourcemanagementsubcomponents, specialized training will be
provided for technical staff offering extension services to farmers. Special attention will be paidto
strengthening the capacity of regionalentities expectedto assist farmers, particularly where a landscape
approach may suggest group action informulating proposals which address environmental dimensions.




                                                      62

                            Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
         URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesandBiodiversityManagementProject


                                                        Planned                 Actual
PCN review                                             0911512003             02/24/2004
InitialPIDto PIC                                    .  03/02/2004             0512712004
InitialISDS to PIC
Appraisal                                              07/14/2004             0711612004
Negotiations                                           05/03/2005
Board/RVP approval                                     06/10/2005
Planned date of effectiveness                          09/01/2005
Planned date of mid-termreview                         0910112008
Plannedclosing date                                    08131/2011

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthis project:

Ministry o f Livestock, Agriculture andFishery(MGAP), Foodand Agriculture Organization (FAO);
General Office for RenewableNatural Resources (RENARE)

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                Title                       Unit
Michael Carroll                        Sr. Natural Res. Mgmt.Spec.            LCSER
Edgardo Floto                                  Sr. Economist                  FAOICP
Albert0Yanosky                             Biodiversity Specialist           Consultant
Luiz Correa Noronha                        Institution Specialist            Consultant
Emilio Rodriguez                          Procurement Specialist         Consultant, LCOPR
Enzo de Laurentiis                      Sr. Procurement Specialist            LCOPR
Antonio Blasco                       Financial Management Analyst              LOCA
MichaelNelson                             Environment Specialist              ECSSD
Roberto Adrian Senderowitsch                  Social Scientist                LCSPR
Marisa Miodosky                       Junior Professional Associate           LCSES
JeannetteRamirez                            Operations Analyst                LCSER
Greicy Amjadi                              InformationAssistant               LCSEN
Mauricio Cifuentes                     Extended-TermTemporary                 LCSES

Bank funds spentto date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$ 117 773.17
     2. Trustfunds:
     3. Total: US$ 117 773.17

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$20 000.00
     2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$100000.00




                                                     63

                               Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject



URUGUAY: Proyecto deManejo Integralde 10sRecursosAguas y Suelos - TCP/URU/O167, Volumes
I-V,Rome: FA0Investment Centre, 2004

Proyecto Combinado GEFABRD "Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemasy RecursosNaturales en Uruguay" -
Componente "Manejo y Conservacidn de la DiversidadBiol6gica"- Subcomponente Turismo Rural-
Laura Garcia Tagliani, Diciembre 2003

Proyecto Combinado GEFABRD "Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemasy Recursos Naturales en Uruguay"           -
Componente "Manejo y Conservacidn de la DiversidadBiolbgica" - Subcomponente Manejo Integrado
de Pradera-Pablo Boggiano, Diciembre 2003

Proyecto Combinado GEFABRD "Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemas y Recursos Naturales enUruguay" -
Componente "Manejo y Conservacidn de la DiversidadBioldgica" - Subcomponente RosqueNativo -
Compilacidn, sistematizacidn y andlisis de la informacidndisponible publicada o en proceso, descripcidn
de la situacjdn actual y propuestas de intervencidn-RafaelEscudero, Carlos Brussa & IvhnGrela, Marzo
2004

Proyecto Combinado GEFABRD "Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemasy RecursosNaturales en Uruguay" -
Componente "Manejo y Conservacidn de la Diversidad Bioldgica" - Subcomponente Fauna Silvestre
(Rancheo y Caza) -Francisco RillaManta, Enero2004

Proyecto Combinado GEFABRD "Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemasy RecursosNaturales en Uruguay" -
Componente "Manejo y Conservacidn de la DiversidadBioldgica" - Subcomponente Generacidn de
Iniciativas Silvopastoriles -Luis Gallo, Enero 2004-07-06




                                                   64

                                            Annex 13: Statement ofLoansandCredits
                 URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject



                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expected andactual
                                                                OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                              disbursements

Proiect ID   FY    Pumose                                    IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig.     Frm.Rev'd
PO77172      2003  UR StructuralAdjustment Loan              151.52      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      50.00    -51.52        0.00
PO78726      2003  UY Public Services & SocialSectors S A L  151.50      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     100.00     50.00        0.00
PO80263      2003  UY SSAL                                   151.52      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      50.00    -51.52        0.00
PO81495      2003  UY PublicServices & SocialSectorsSSAL     101.02      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      75.00     25.00        0.00
PO74543      2002  UY FOOT & MOUTHDISEASE ERL     -            18.50     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00       5.26    -13.24      -13.24
PO70937      2002  UY- Basic ED3                              42.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      34.99      6.54         0.00
PO70058      2001  UY PUBLIC SERVICES                           6.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00       5.09      2.62         0.00
                   MODERNIZATIONTA
PO63383      2000  UY AF'L OSEMOD&REHAB.                       27.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      20.32     20.32        -0.36
PO39203      1997  UY FORESTPROD.TSP                           76.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     5.00      26.63     31.63         0.00
PO08177      1996  UY POWERTRNMSN& DISTR                     125.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      47.56     47.56         0.00
                                                      Total: 850.06      0.00     0.00     0.00      5.00    414.85      67.39    - 13.60




                                                                URUGUAY
                                                          STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                       Held andDisbursedPortfolio
                                                          InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                                 Committed                                Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                      IFC
        FY Approval  Company                       Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic.   Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic.
         1985        Azucitrus                     0.00          3.45      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.45       0.00        0.00
        2002         Conaprole                     20.00         0.00     10.00      0.00     15.00      0.00       10.00       0.00
         1995        ConsorcioAerop.               0.83          0.00      2.87      0.21      0.83      0.00       2.87        0.21
        2001         Umontevideo                   4.89          0.00      0.00      0.00      3.19      0.00        0.00       0.00
                                  Totalportfilio:   25.72        3.45     12.87      0.21     19.02      3.45       12.87       0.21




                                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment
                      FY Approval      Company                           Loan       Equity      Quasi        Partic.
                      2002             ConaproIe                      0.00           0.00        0.00         0.02
                                           Totalpendingcommittment:       0.00       0.00        0.00         0.02




                                                                     65

                                   Annex 14: IncrementalCostAnalysis
          URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject


Introduction

1.       This project will promote sustainablelandmanagement practices incorporatingbiodiversityas
one component o fthe spectrum of products from the rural landscapeinUruguay. The entire project will
promote the integrationo f sound management practices o f natural resourcesandbiodiversity and the
GEF-fundingwill be usedto promote the incorporationofbiodiversitywithinthe general framework of
analysis prioritizing key biodiversity areas. Uruguay i s one o fthe few places inthe world with extensive
savannas interspersed with other key habitattypes which have beenusedfor agriculture and livestock
production since the Spanish colonization and which are the basis for the economy of the country.
Uruguay is well endowed with natural resourcesfor livestock and agricultural production, and usually
these occur alongside key biodiversity areas which have only recently been found or acknowledged. The
combination of agriculture and agro-industry sectors represent up to 23 percent ofthe country's Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). But, eventhis figure beliesthe combined importance of these two sectorsto
the economy as a whole; over halfoftheir output is exported, and inthe early 2000s representedover 70
percent o f Uruguay's total export earnings. This importance inthe economic sector has been achieved
without much regardtowards biodiversity conservation. Major threats to biodiversity conservation and
naturalresources are inappropriate management o f livestock and natural grasslands, introduction of alien
species, overgrazing, natural grasslandforestation with exotic species, irrational burning,dam
construction, urbanization, non ecofiiendly agricultural practices such as rice plantations, and some other
minor threats. These practices are mostly carriedout by smallto medium-sizedfarming operations with
large-sized operations inmost of cases leaving important tracts of natural habitats.

2.       Insuch ahighlyproductiverural country, advancesinthe development ofthe rurallandscapefor
production are recognized to have had many negative consequencesfor the conservation of the rich
naturalresourcesand mainly biodiversity. The constraints limitingthe adoption of sound conservation
practices that have preventedintegrated and cross-sectoral approachesthat leadto sustainable landscape
management are, amongst others: a) limitedpolicies to promote sustainable patterns and support the
adoption o f integrated approaches; b) limitedtechnical assistanceand the need for additional financial
incentives for sustainable landuse; c) limitedresources, ifany, to support targeted research important for
biodiversity conservation and enhancedopportunities raising at the global level such as environmental
services and carbon sequestration; d) lack o f integration of conservation and traditional development,
including areas o f importance for uniquely biodiversehabitats; e) lack of information and a general vision
o f the landscapeamelioratingthe naturalresources and including biodiversity into the productive sectors
o f the country.

3.        Inlight ofthis situation, and baseduponthe experience derivedfrom PRENADER andBafiados
del Este Projects, the national government has decidedto promote naturalresources and biodiversity
management techniques at the national level focused on the small and medium-sizedlandowners. These
land owners opt, with appropriate governmental support, to changethe unsustainable use o ftheir lands
and promotethe conservation o f natural resources and biodiversity. Little ifany support has beengiven
to such a novelway o f conducting landscapemanagement andthis strategy has been mentioned as a
priority inthe Biodiversity Conservation Strategy.




                                                     66

The baseline scenario

4.        Preliminary surveys conducted by the preparation team have not identifiedgovernmental or civil
society projects for the conservation of biodiversity. The only baseline informationwhich can be
includedinthis analysis is the operations ofthe GEF inthe Baiiados delEste GEF UNDP-sponsored
Project, already finished, which left ideas of how to improve the actions and lessons learnt are key part o f
this initiative. The other example is PRENADER, with clear steps left for the future of a secondphaseto
which this GEF i s fully blended. Under the baselinescenario, policy and capacity development for
environmental and naturalresourcesplanningis left; e.g. provision o f technical assistance for
participatory landowners planningand the microcatchment-focussed initiatives.

5.        The "Integrated Natural Resourceand BiodiversityManagement Project" would provide the
general framework of operation, with provision oftechnical and financial assistanceto small and
medium-sized farmers who would propose strictly production-oriented projects to promote increased
agricultural and livestock production, including some activities to promote improved naturalresources
management. Recent performance o fthe agriculture sector, however, indicatedthat, ingeneral terms, the
sector was reacting positively to market signals and didnot require special assistance to increasegrowth.
Therewas, nevertheless, an underlyingthreat that, ifspecial incentives andtechnical assistance were not
givento farmers there was a realdanger that highratesof growth inagricultural and livestock production
would be achieved at the expense ofthe country's natural resources base. Consequently, inthe lighto f
the conclusions ofthe ESW, itwas decidedto opt for aprojectthat would concentrate on promoting
improved natural resourcesmanagement and mainstream agricultural biodiversity inthe integrated on-
farm naturalresourcesmanagement plans.

6.        The proposed projectwould promote natural resourcesand biodiversity management, by
financing demand-driven activities to promote sustainablemanagement of naturalpastures; improved
cultural practices inrainfedagriculture; and consolidation and expansion of PRENADER's activities in
irrigated agriculture and dairy farming. Inthe implementation of this component, farmers would compete
for financial resourcesfor their investmentproposals according to clear selection and eligibility criteria to
be defined. Furthermore, support services, would includetraining andtechnicalassistanceto farmers,
institutional strengthening o f local and central authorities, and specialized training for agronomist and
technical staff providingtechnical assistanceto farmers. These activities would be carried out underthe
leadership o f a Project ExecutingUnit, which would be responsible for overall project execution and the
Monitoring and Evaluation System. Within this framework, the GEF would finance the incremental costs
associatedwith incorporatingbiodiversity inthis generalproductive landscape usingimprovement,
incorporation, adoptive management skills at the farmers' level and at the same time providing a
participatory framework o f the biodiversity landscape inthe country and pilot demonstration areas.

7.        The implementationofthe aforementioned activities (some o f which are already occurring due to
theprevious operation andare beingcontinued andreinforcedunderthe proposed project) would
contribute to the project goal of integratingnaturalresource management systems.Nevertheless, inthe
absence of the GEF funding, the biodiversity component would not be includedespecially becausethis
component cannot explicitly demonstrate local short term benefits and landowners are typically unwilling
to investinlong-term activities that can only demonstrate potentialfuture global returns. The GEF-
financed activitieswould generateglobal benefits by increasing the biodiversity of soils, pastures and the
general landscapes, enhancing the potential o fthe country to contribute positively to the carbon balance
and creating the conditions for survival and enhancemento f wildlife populations inkey biodiversity
areas. Itwould thus finance technical assistance, rural infrastructure, management guidelines and services
to small farmers. However, the baseline would not addressmore far-reaching interventions funded by
global transfers, as it would not support particular aspects that are mainly focused on, for example,
restoration and rehabilitation o f non-productiveor fragile areas withinthe microcatchments, the


                                                      67

connectivity of fragments of importance to biodiversity, the entire vision ofthe ecological landscapeto
perpetuate biological resources, as well as investment of high-riskas those related to Conservationof
biodiversity inwhich the country has little experience.

The GEFalternative

8.       The proposed GEF alternative and the existence of its insertion into the proposed project would
achieve significantly greater conservation ofthreatenedbiodiversity o f global importance at boththe
species/population level and at the site and landscape levels in selected areas of importance for
biodiversity withinthis unique Uruguayan habitat type. Increased community participation and
organization for biodiversity management, pilot demonstration projects developedjointly with
landowners, donations to landowners with sound projects showing an integrated management of natural
resources and compliance with environmental legislation at the international and national level, proposed
bythis alternative strategy o fblendingthe GEF with the proposedproject, would inturnincrease
sustainability o f interventions and would demonstratethe importance o f mainstreaming biodiversity inthe
rural productive sector. Benefits of supporting this innovative way o f biodiversity management outside
Pas; working with private landowners to buildon biodiversity friendly activities; increasing the national
capacity o f managingnaturalresources; taking advantage o f the global opportunities arising; and
enhancing the conservation of an ecosystemof such global importance, has to occur predominantly with
the support ofthe global levelandtherefore warrants GEF funding.

9.       The GEF activities, presentedas part ofthe proposedproject, would orient the agricultural and
livestock baseline operations throughthe introduction of a cross-sectoral approach insupport o f
sustainable land use practices inbenefitof biodiversity withinan ecosystemic approach. GEF resources
would cover the incremental costs associatedwith: a) the development o f appropriate strategies for the
adoption of sound rural practices, b) the inclusionof biodiversity o f global importance as part ofthe
natural resources management inUruguay, c) participatory and awareness support and efforts, d) capacity
buildingamongst producers, leaders, managersand implementingagency, e) design and implementation
o f an incentive program for biodiversity conservation, f ) neededresearchto validate appropriate
technologies and practices, and finally g) M&E and communicational aspectsto secure implementation
excellence and replicability o f soundpractices.

 10,     The total cost ofthe Project withthis GEF Alternative is estimated at US$96million, which
would be financed by a Bank loanof US$30million, a GEF Grant of US$7 million, and Government
counterpart funds of about US$3 million. Inaddition, beneficiaries' contributions would be about
US$ 56 million. Tentatively, about 93% of project resources would be allocated to investment in
improved natural resourcesand biodiversity management activities, including pilot areas, about 4% would
be allocated to support services, andthe remaining 3% would be allocated to the Project ExecutingUnit
and the M&E System. The U$ 7 million GEF-contribution to match incrementalcosts would be allocated
inthe following way: 71.O% (US$ 5.0 million) for demand-driven support for the Promotionof
Biodiversity Sustainable Practices; 21,4% (U$S 1.5 million) for the implementation of pilot areas; 4.1 %
(US$ 0.3 million) for institutional strengthening and 3.6 % (US$0.2 million) for project coordination.
Thus the GEF follows the same criteria offunding allocation as the overall project.

 11.     Withthe GEF alternative, the Government ofUruguay andthe other institutionsworking in
partnership with municipalities, academiaand NGOswill be able to undertakea challenging program at
the national level that is mainly focused on keybiodiversity areas encompassing both national and global
benefits, enhancing the conservation of threatened and vulnerable species andhabitats inUruguay and
assisting the productive force ofthe country with effective implementation of sustainable rural and
environmental initiatives. The co-financing of this GEF-supported project would be done by a



                                                      68

contribution of US$ 11million from the Bank loan and beneficiaries' contributions, and an estimated
contribution of US$ 1millionfrom the government.

Incrementalcosts

12.     The addition to the costs of a baseline scenario where only the Bank loan would be implemented
is about 7%. This 7% to be contributed by the GEF would make it possible to mainstream biodiversity as
a key environmentalcontributionto creating rural development, by investing in sound practices, co-
sharing farmers' investments and creating the capacity at the local and national level under the "umbrella"
incremental costs oftechnical assistance, training, workshops and other services such as public awareness
media campaigns, infrastructure, equipment, travel and subsistence allowances. The contribution from
the GEFwould becombined withthe baseline committedbythe Government to promotebiodiversity
conservation and use into the general natural resourcesmanagementproject. The GEF investment would
promote the investment o fUS$1million from the government and a combined (loan andbeneficiaries)
co-financing o fUS$47 million. The followingtables show by components the total costs of the GEF
contributionfor biodiversity inclusion inthe Project.




                                                                       Matching 10M
                                              Total Cost * 10M          Gov & loan                GEF * 10M
 Comp. 1: Promotionof SUB                                     9.50I                    4.50 I               5.00

 Comp. 3. SupportServices                                     3.20                     2.90                 0.30
 Comp.4: ProjectExecutingUnit                                 1.30                     1.10                 0.20
 Totals                                                      15.50                     8.50                 7.00



Component 1. Promotionof Sustainable Use ofBiodiversity. Total Cost $9.5 million=GEF
contribution$5.0 million

13.     Activities to promote sustainable biodiversity management of natural pastureswould be based on
a demand driven strategy. Farmers would compete for financial resourcesfor their investment proposals
according to clearly defined selection and eligibility criteria. Improved livelihoods of small- and
medium-sized farmers living inkey areas for biodiversity conservation would be prioritized and
integrated naturalresources management projects would be implemented. Five main areas of the project
are expectedto be generatedby this demand-driven approach, as follows:

         1.1. Conservation and sustainable use of natural pastures. This subcomponent i s expected to
        contribute to: maintenance, recovery and improvement of naturalpastures, working with native
        species insystems o f intensive use with crop rotations; provision of alternatives for multiple use
        o f naturalpasture lands (honey, medicinal, nutritional, ornamental and other uses); and
        implementationo f soil protection techniques inriparian areas to conserve and improve
        hydrological system. This component would be accompanied by training, technical assistance
         and sharing o f experiences inthe conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity innatural
        pastures.

         1.2. Sustainablemanagement o f timber and non-timber products from native forests. This
         subcomponent is expected to contribute to implementingforest conservation initiatives by
         utilizingforestry management techniques (thinning, pruning, enrichment, recovery, etc.) and


                                                      69

       improving native forests with reintroduction, reforestation and restoration of native forests. The
       multiple use o f forests (resins, honey, fruits, medicinal, ornamental, etc.) will be promoted and
       activities would be accompanied by training, technical assistance and sharing of experiencesin
       conservation and sustainableuse of biodiversity innative forests.

       1.3. Management and conservation of native fauna. This subcomponent would be basedupon
       the fauna resourcesofthe country, some ofwhich are already under use and others of which are
       still to be implemented. The subcomponentwould invest inimplementation of farmingpractices
       for native specieswith different purposes (slaughtering by-products, pets, breeding-stock, etc.),
       ranching practices for native species (slaughtering by-products, pets, breeding-stock, etc.),
       development o f strategiesfor restoration of degraded habitats for native fauna species and any
       other type of innovative way o f conserving and making sound use of wildlife. Training and
       extension services would also be provided.

       1.4. Generation of silvo-pastoral initiatives. This subcomponent would seek the implementation
       of combined activities to promote livestockproduction innative landscapes by implementing
       practices to recover the natural biodiversity of forest-pasture ecosystem, by improving cattle-
       raising inforest areas, for purposesof certification. Training, technical assistanceand sharing of
       experiences inagro-silvo-pastoral systems with native species would be provided.

        1.5. Developmentof rural tourism basedon naturalnative species. Based on the experiences
       already existinginthe country, this subcomponent would enhance the role of biodiversity-based
       tourism by supporting implementationof agro-ecotourism experiments, ecotourism andnature
       tourism experiments, ranch tourism experiments and at the same time providing training,
       technical assistanceand sharing of experiencesinrural tourism and agro-biodiversity.

Component2. ImplementationofPilotAreas. Total cost of $1.5 million,which would befinanced
bythe GEF.

14.     This component would implement demonstrative areas of sustainable use of naturalresourcesin,
key micro-catchments which are of importance for biodiversity, combining sound practices for natural
resourcesmanagement and creating increasedpublic awarenessof the significance and socioeconomic
importance o fbiodiversity. The areas of importance for biodiversity would be established basedupon a
generation o f a biological vision and eco-regional planningof the project's intervention areas.

Component3. Support Services. Total cost of $3.20 millionofwhich $0.30 millionare requested
from the GEFwith a baselineof$2.90 million.

15,     This Component would focus on strengthening institutions responsible for biodiversity
conservation, facilitating an increased capacity to support sub-regional needs inbiodiversity conservation,
creating internationalawarenessof project concepts and achievements, creating the national capacity for
carbon balance projects and facilitating boththe operation o fthe Geographic Information Systemand the
management and marketingcapacity ifthe private sector.




                                                       70

Component 4: ProjectExecution. A totalinvestment of $1.30 million,ofwhich a baselineof $1.10
millionis to be contributedby the governmentand the GEFis requestedto invest$0.20 million.

16.     This componentwould assist the MGAPwith Projectexecution, includingthe administrative
structure andthe implementationofthe monitoring and evaluation.




                                                71

                                    Annex 15: STAP RosterReview
     URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResources and BiodiversityManagementProject


                                               ProjectReview
       Project Title: IntegratedEcosystemand NaturalResourcesManagementinUruguay
         ExecutingAgency:           Ministry ofAgriculture,Livestock and Fisheries,Uruguay
                                       Reviewer:EnriqueH.Bucher
                                          DateFebruary28,2004


PROPOSAL'S GLOBALPRIORITY AND RELEVANCE INTHE AREA OF THE
BIODIVERSITYPROTECTION

1.      This proposal dealswith a regionof significant biodiversity and ecologicalvalue. Uruguay still
holds large portions of little-modified, temperate ecosystems of great conservation value. They include
grasslands, savannas, native forests and wetlands. Ofparticular importance are native grasslands, which
represent a still vast but constantly decreasing portion of the grasslands than once covered Pampas of
Uruguay, Argentina, and Southern Brazil. It is worth mentioningthat the Pampas grasslandsinArgentina
disappeared almost completely early inthe XX century.

2.      Native ecosystems inUruguay are under significant and rapidly increasing threats becauseof
rapid changes inland-use patterns that are taken place, particularly since the 1990's. Unless adequate
measuresare taken, it is very likely that presenttrends will acceleratea rapid loss o f natural capital in
Uruguay. Accordingly, pre-emptive actions aiming at the integrationof sustainable productionsystems,
from the individualpropertyto the basin and landscapescale, are fullyjustified andtimely. This
approach i s particularly important regardingconservation outside protected areas, which deserve special
consideration becauseof the very small number and limitedextension of protected areas inUruguay.

3.      Insummary, this proposal is accordancewith GEF objectives, particularly regardingconservation
of grasslands, one of the most endangeredecosystems inthe world.


SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL SOUNDNESS

4.      The strategy selected, basedon developingcompatible, complementary activities that enhance
conservation, sustainability and productivity o f current production systems i s appropriate for Uruguay.
Integrationof landscapemanagement, basinmanagement, and multiple production systems that
incorporate biodiversity conservation as a primary goal is an attractive and desirable concept.

5.      Obviously, it implies a demanding challenge, particularly interms of designingandmaking
compatible multiple-usesystems, which insome case imply conflicting demands interms of land-use and
management practices.

6.      The presentversion of the proposalhas however some components that would require being
expanded or improved in order to strengthen its technical soundness, particularly regarding: a)
diagnostic, b) focus and scale, b) biodiversity conservation, and c) feasibility analysis.




                                                      72

Diagnostic


7.      Inthe diagnostic analysis ofthe mainenvironmental problems affecting Uruguay, no
consideration is given to expansion of forest plantation and agriculture, two critical factors that are
displacing other land uses inthe native grasslands and savannas ecoregion. As mentionedinthe proposal,
"The areaunder plantationhas grown by closeto 800% inthe 1990s,andtoday the total area under
plantation forestry covers 400,000 ha." Existinggovernment policies and financial investments suggest
further rapidgrowth ofthe planted area inthe near future, as commented inthe proposal:

8.      Inmore recentyears soybeanexpansionis also gainingmomentum inwestern Uruguay, favored
by current prices andnewtechnological developmentsthat allow cultivation insoils and region
previously considered unsuitable for this crop.

                  .    .
9.      Both factors (forestry with introduced species and agriculture) result inprofound transformations
ofthe original Uruguayan landscape, particularly becauseboth provide higher economic returns than
traditional land-uses. This situation requires, therefore, inclusion and careful analysis inthis project.


RESPONSE: Both agriculture and forest plantations will be considered inthe project design; while
agriculture i s considered indepth inthe project description and the other related documents, forest
plantations are included inthe executive summary. The combination of agriculture and the agro-industry
sector represent a large portion of the nationaleconomy (up to 23 percent ofthe country's Gross
Domestic Product, GDP), with over halfoftheir output exported, and representing over 70 percent of
Uruguay's total export earnings. Subsidies applied to the forestry sector have promotedthe expansion of
exotic plantations, mainly of Eucalyptus with an areaof 400 000 ha. Such industry is not, per se,
supportive o f biodiversity conservation since it is basedupon an exotic speciesthat has produced various
negative environmental impacts. The expansion of soybeans is a new threat to biodiversity mainly inthe
western part o fthe country. Though both productionsystems could impact negatively on biodiversity,
this projectwould addressconservation strategiesofthese two potentialthreats as part ofimplementation
withinthe targetareas.

Focus and scale


10.      The project is tailored around a holistic approach at the landscape, basin, and individual property
levels, according to the following statements:

         "The keyfocus of thisproject is thepromotion of biodiversitv-fiiendlv, multiule-use land use
        practices, within a landscaue auuroach. Under this approach, it ispossible topromote the
         adoption of land-usepractices that exploit the synergiesthat exist between biodiversity
         conservationand opportunitiesfor rural income generation.

         "From a biodiversity perspective, what is key is thepromotion of a geographic configuration that
         maintains the mosaic nature of Uruguay's original habitats, restoring biological corridors
         through a diversiped rural landscape.   'I



11.      However, specific themes assignedto consultants suggest emphasis on actions aimed at
promotingchanges inproduction systems at the individual property scale, with little consideration to
integration at the basin and/or landscape scales. This limitation is clearly seen inthe following statement:

         "As explainedearlier, theproject will tailor activities to each of theproduction systems currently
         in use in Uruguay. Suchsystems will be usedas afirst Itfilter" to define the type of

                                                      73

          mainstreaming activities to bejnanced by the GEF, Nevertheless, thegeographic areas of
          implementation have been broadly dejned, and do not overlap with any of the other GEF-
         financedprojects in Uruguay.''

 12.      Ifsite selection isguidedbyproductionsystemalone withnoconsideration tothebasidlandscape
 scale, then it is unlikelythat isolated actions at the individual property will succeed ininfluencinghigher
 geographical levels of management. What a reader ofthis proposalwould expect i s to focus actions in
 specific landscapeshasins units, inwhich actions at all levels (basin, landscape, and individual property)
 could be integratedunder the proposed holistic approach. Otherwise, it is difficult to conceive how
 expertise inbasin and landscapemanagementmay be integrated with promotion o f alternative,
 sustainable production systems. For example, what would be the criteria for suggesting conservation of a
 given forest or grassland patchto land owners interested indeveloping eco-tourism and biodiversity
 conservation? Survival ofkey species andbiodiversity in general would require a landscapeapproach
 that goes beyond the individual farm or ranch.

 13.      Moreover, when landscapeintegration is mentioned, it would be desirable than this approach was
 made explicit ina more technical way, reflecting"state o fthe art" landscapeecology and management
 sciences. Insummary, showing appropriate integrationof the proposed actions at different landscape
 levels and production systems would strengthenthe technical consistency o f this proposal.


 RESPONSE: As part ofthe preparation ofthe project, the country was dividedinproduction areas and
 these areas were overlapped with natural communities and land aptitudes includingthe already known
 sites where natural vegetation is still found. This guided the site selection firstly by production system,
 giving us clear ideasthat the GEF component would not be investing inhighlymodifiedhabitats or areas
 where natural pastureshave completely disappearedand the exotic specieswere introduced, or inforest
 plantationareas. Once these considerations were met, key areas were selectedsuch as the "basalto" and
 the "quebradas" inthe north and easternparts o fthe country, within those large areas a criteria based in
 basidlandscapescale will be promotedandthus individual property or a group of farms would succeedin
 influencing higher geographical levels of management. Because o f its demand-driven nature, the project
 would propose thematic areas of potential interventions butthis has to be generatedbythe demand butthe
 "state of the art" inlandscape ecology and management sciences will be includedas part ofthe
 development of the full proposal. Integration ofthe proposed actions at different landscapelevels and
 production systemswill strengthen the technical consistency o fthe project proposal.


 Biodiversity conservation


 14.      The biodiversity component is basedonthe assumption that promotion ofeconomic exploitation
 native fauna through consumptive use or ecotourism will ensure biodiversity conservation, as part of the
 integrated ecosystem management practices. However, the scientific and technicaljustification o fthis
 assumption i s not made explicit. Itwould advisable to add clarifications on the following specific points:


I     a) Economic utilization o fmost o fthe listed species is already inpractice. In most cases, it is based
          on captive breedingmore than inranching o f free or semi-captive populations (see previous
          Probides experience, for example). Captive breedinghas limited influence inland-use practices.
          More details are neededto understand how captive breedingwill improve biodiversity
          conservation and how it will be integrated inpractice with othar land-uses.




                                                         74

         Other wildlife species widely usedin"sport-hunting tourism" activities are not includedinthe
        proposal (particularly doves). They are becoming avery important economic activity in
        Uruguay.
         No actions are considered for the protection of threatenedor endangeredspecies. For example, a
        specific managementplan for such a charismatic species as the Pampas deer would be expected
        as an important component of this project. This valid also for other typical grassland species such
        as the RedTinamou (Rhynchotusrufescens) and Sporophila grass-eaterbirds.
        The same applies for nativegrass andherb species. Many ofthem have considerable potentialfor
        pastures, although inmany cases adequate researchis lacking, despite important efforts made by
        several Uruguayanacademic and researchgroups. As mentionedearlier, overgrazing and
        expansion of introduced pasturesthreatens survival of native grass species.
        Lack of any consideration on protected areas inthis proposal weakens the scientific andtechnical
        soundness of the project, particularly becauseit is based on a holistic, landscape-basedapproach.
        Grasslands and savannas are extremely endangeredecosystems around the world. Unless some
        action i s taken, it is very likelythose native grasslandsinUruguay (and its associatedfauna like
        the Pampasdeer) may disappear, as already happenedinthe Argentinean pampas. This unique
        opportunity deserves careful consideration. Moreover, the needfor protected areas i s also
        supported bythe priorities and criteria stated inUruguay's National Biodiversity Strategy for in
        situ conservation.


RESPONSE: All these aspects are already inpartconsidered inthe full proposal but the
recommendations are pertinent for producing a better document. Support to captive breedingis expected
to be limitedas the project aims to support either ranchingoperations requiring habitat management, or
farming operations inliaison with other operations requiringhabitat conservation. Game and other
species with hunting potentialare included and the full proposal addresses these opportunities for the
country, including pigeons and doves, an important economic activity inthe grassland ecosystem,
generating chancesto amalgamatemanagemento f population levels with income generation. Threatened
or endangeredspeciesare given special consideration and particular efforts are being placedon the
charismatic Pampasdeer for which plans are to find compatibility between pasture productionfor
livestock and Pampassurvival as both are part ofthe landscape. The same applies for the RedTinamou
(Rhynchotusrufescens) andSporophila grass-eater birds, native grass and herb species for which special
plans will be developed incooperation with stakeholders especially tryingto bringtogether the Academia
andNGOs. Regarding the lack o f any consideration regardingPAS,the proposal addresses inits concept
the existence of a very weak system of protected areas and a legal framework that i s not conducive to any
significant change to the current status. The government of Uruguay i s convinced o fthe need to
complement its fledgingsystem o f protected areas with aggressiveconservation efforts outside the PAS.
The key concept for achieving biodiversity conservation outside Uruguay's system of protected areas
would be the promotion of biodiversity-compatible, multiple land-use practices, within a landscape
approach. Under this approach, this project would work outside PASand will promote the adoption of
land-use practices that exploit the synergies that exist between biodiversity conservationand opportunities
for rural income generation. Some o f these practices of "integrated ecosystem management" may include
a combinationof the following land-uses: a) maintenance of scenic beauty for rural tourism and
recreation, b) wildlife ranching, c) integrated savannaecosystemmanagement, d) silvopastoril systems
and e) wildlife hunting.




                                                       75

Feasibility analysis

15,      The proposal does not make clear the specific strategy to be usedto promote Integrated
Ecosystem and NaturalResourcesManagement inUruguay, besides extension and outreach (courses,
workshops, etc.) and support for initiatives at individual property level. However, it i s clear that it inmost
cases, unless some corrective policy is inplace, commodity prices will dictate land-usepreferences
despite the conservation and sustainability values of other alternatives.

16.      The same consideration applies for organizingthe landscape at scales over the individual property
(basin or any other m'anagementunit), one o fthe key aspects of the integrated ecosystem management
approach drivingthis proposal. The generaltrend inLatin America i s that, becauseof an almost complete
lack o f effective land-use planningpolicies, the landscapestructure is drivenalmost exclusively by
market forces. Itwould be usefulifconsideration and analysis were givento incentive mechanisms that
Uruguay could apply to promote sustainable, conservation friendly land use at the landscapehasin scale.
Moreover, these considerations should be matchedagainst existing incentives for alternative land-uses,
such as Eucalyptus plantations. Perhapsa consultant inthis area could provide useful contributions.

17.      Some statements inthe proposal may answer my previous considerations, but unfortunatelythey
do not provide enough details: "Some of thesepractices of integrated ecosystem management will
include a combination of various land-uses,whoserelative emphases will be determined by the local
conditions, the feasibility of implementing an incentiveframework, the abilityfor market-based
mechanismsto support these land-uses, and their relative contribution to conservation''


RESPONSE: This proposal has beenproduced as a result of many years o f working with the GOUand
includinga focus on incentives would require consultation with the national authorities regardinga
particular consultancy on environmentalservices. Itwas concludedthat the incentives basedon tax
considerations ware not appropriate at present. Despitethis, the project would support the development
and implementation of some innovative economic tools and approaches(such as promotion o f market
development and business opportunities, biodiversity-friendly production systems, consumer awareness-
building, and others) as well as the creation ofnew incentives mainlybasedon development of necessary
human and institutional capacities to promote sustainable solutions in agricultural biodiversity
conservation, includingtraining, demonstration andtechnology transfer etc.


Adequacy and cost-effectivenessof the project design


18.      According with the information presented, the project design i s sound andhas good possibilities
of achieving its goals. The fact that both the development and conservation agencies inUruguay work in
coordination increasesthe chances o f effective implementation o fthe proposed actions.

19.      My only comment regardingthistopic isthe apparent lack of adaptive researchneededfor
adapting the proposed actions that will emerge from the consultancies to the Uruguayan conditions. My
impression is that development of new production alternatives and/or their integration inexisting
production items`inevitablyrequire adaptive research. This research appearsnecessaryinbetweenthe
recommendations made by the consultant andthe practical, generalized implementation ofthe
corresponding practices. This gap would require some kindo f experimentaland development period,
probably inclose connection with academic andresearch organizations such as universities, INIA, etc.
Moreover, this researchmay also contribute to improve the monitoring component ofthe project. An
additional benefit of this approach would be to help to develop local expertise inIntegrated Ecosystem
and Natural Resources Management in Uruguay

                                                      76

RESPONSE: Though adaptive researchwas one of the tools and mechanismsto achieve the goals, given
the pertinent reviewers' comments, this will be addressedduringthe coming weeks and given much more
importance before the appraisal missioninorder to be consistent with the strategy of the project.


Miscellaneous comments
1) Title: the project title is very wide in scope and does not reflect exactly its goals. My suggestion is to
    consider a more focused alternative.
    Connection between thisproject andPrenador should be mademore explicit. As stated, it appears
    like ifmore irrigation projects will be developed with some consideration to the environment, butthe
    articulation with integrated ecosystemmanagement i s not clear besides the following very general
    statement. "This GEFproject isfilly-blended with an IBRD loan that willpromote the adoption of
    integratedproduction systems in agricultural production systems and livestocklandscapesto
    increaseproductivity within a holistic ecosystem and natural resourcesmanagement while
    conservingsoils, water,grasslandsand biodiversity. More specific details would be useful to
                                                           "
    clarify the articulation between these projects.

3)   Carbon balance and methane. The proposal statesthat "Since the emission of bothgases are the
    result of inefficiencies in theproduction system, a reduction of the emissions would also lead to better
    resultsfor thefarmers (higher nitrogen use eflciency, and more efJicientconversion of animalfeed
    into milk, meat, and w001.))~.Pleaseconsider also that the solution proposed is an increasedN
    fertilization and replacement o f native grasslands, which conflicts with the following statement also
    inthe proposal: Itfarmersseek increasingproductivity levelsand therefore, introduce exoticgrasses
    and legumes and applyfertilizers in the natural rangelands. Thesepractices result in higher
    livestockproductivity levels and consequently increasedfarmer 's income. On the other hand,
    alterations of the natural rangelands representa clear threat topreserving native species and
    reducing biodiversity. "

4)   Carbon balance: Any analysis of carbon balance inrural Uruguay should include forest plantations
    of introduced species and agricultural areas, and not only native grasslands and savannas. Another
    point o f concern i s to what extent a consultancy andthe use of general models may replace the basic
    researchneededto assess carbon balance inUruguay with the requiredaccuracy. Here again, a
    researchcomponent appears necessary.


RESPONSE: All these recommendations will be considered duringthe final phases ofproject
preparation. Especially regarding the carbon balance, the project aims to create capacity at the national
level to prepare well sustainedprojects of carbon balance includingthe three main pillarsof economic,
environmentaland social sustainability and based on country information on carbon and carbon balance
measurements.The linkwith the loan financed components and how the synergies are expressedwill be
better described inthe project Summary and Brief.




                                               '      77

Feasibility of implementation, operation and sustainability


20.     According withthe strategy adoptedinthe proposal, implementation, operation andmaintenancein
the longterm appearfeasible. However, a critical question is whether innovative concepts inintegrated
ecosystemandnatural resourcemanagementwill be permanently adoptedbyUruguay's government
structure andthe local communities. That would probably require further steps andprojects accordingwith
the results obtained bythis project.

21.     Another critical questionis which kindof land-usepolicy will beadoptedinUruguay taking into
consideration the experiencesgained inthis stage. Itwould beadvisableto consider these questionsduring
the developmentofthis project.


RESPONSE: This issue had also been raised duringthe project preparation phase and is a key element
for the sustainability ofthe practices to be carried out. The Ministryof Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries has ratified its commitment to havingthis new holistic approach to NRh4 management.
Furthermore, the training and TA activitiesto be implemented as part o fthe support services component
of the project would ensure long-term adoptionof this integrated approach by beneficiaries.


outputs


22.      Outputs are in general consistent with the project's goals, general strategy, and methodological
approach, Please see also previous specific considerations.


Identificationof the global environmental benefits and/or drawbacks


23.      Ifthisproject is successfulandprotectionandsustainableuseofoneofthe lastextensive,
temperate grasslandecoregions remaining in South America is achieved, benefits would be outstanding.
Inmy opinion, the opportunity is uniquebut greatly constrained by avery narrowtime-window
opportunity. The proposal fits adequately with GEF goals.


Replicability of the project
The project has clear value and feasibility for replicability insimilar ecoregions ofthe world.


 SECONDARY ISSUES

Linkages to otherfocal areas


 24.     The project clearly linkswith biodiversity, desertification, and climate change issues.
 Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects

 25.     The project has the potential for bringingadditional, positive effects to the region, including
 promotion of researchon biodiversity and sustainable development ideas andpractices intemperate



                                                      78

ecosystems. It may also promote local public awareness on environmental issues, and integration of
government agencies towards integrated regional management criteria and actions.


Degree of involvement of stakeholdersin theproject


26.    Involvement of stakeholdersseems satisfactory at the level of analysis presentedinthe report.


Capacity-building aspects


27.    The proposed capacity buildingactivitiesare useful and very broad inscope.




                                                  79

                                                     Annex 16: Countryat a Glance
              URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesand BiodiversityManagementProject

                                                                       Latin     Upper.
POVERTY andSOCIAL                                                   America      middle
                                                         Uruguay    & Carib.     income     Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population.mid-par (mihnsl                                     3.4       534          335
GNI percapita Wthsme&od. US$)                                3.7m     3260                                Life expectancy
                                                                                   5,340
GNI (Atles mskhod USSbflms)                                   12.8     1,741       1788                          T
                                                                                     ~




Averageannual gmwth, 199743
Popuiabon(%I                                                   0.6        1.5         1.2
Laborform (%I                                                  1.0       2.1          1.8   GNI                                 Gross

Mostrecentostimato(latest yoar avslabfe, 199743)                                            per                                primary
                                                                                            capita                           nrolirnent
Poverty(96 b p o p r M n bdow nwtmalpoverly/h]
Urban population(PS ofto$lppuhtmn]                              W          77          76
 Lifeexpectancyat birth( y w ]                                  7s         71          73                        I
 infantmortality@er $.ooO hvebub(rsl                            14         28          1g
 Childmalnutrition   ofcWfanunder5)                                                                Acws to improvedwater gource
Accessto an imprwsd wter "ab ofpopu/ation]                      98         86          89
 illiteracy(88 ofpqulabn age f5+)                                2         11           9
 Gross primaryenmllment @ ofscha?l.agepopktka]                 lM        129          104
     Male                                                      109       131          104
     Female                                                    107       126          104

 KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983        1993      2002        2003
                                                                                            Economic ratios.
 GDP KISS b#lmsl                                     5.1       15.0      12.3         11.2
 GmssdomesticInvastmenVGDP                         14.3        15.6      12.3         11.4
 ETOrtS Of goods and WNitaSffiDP                   25.7        19.1     21.7          26.9                     Trade
 GmssdomesticsavingslGDP                           16.3        15.2      14.4         14.9
 GmssnationalsavingslEDP                                       13.9      13.9         11.9                       T
 CurrentamountbaiancaGDP                           -1.2        -1.I 1.6               2.6
 interestpaymentdGDP                                4.4         1.4        3.2              DomEstic                        Inveshment
 Toial debUGDP                                     64.8       32.4       87.4               savings
 Total debt e"mlexports                            27.2        19.5     40.3
 PresentvaiuaofdebtG0P                                                   88.5
 Presentvalueof debtkports                                              342.4                               Indebtedness
                                     1983-93 1993-03          2002      2003     2003-07
 (awrsgeamuaf WoOHlh)
 GDP                                     3.5         0.2      -11.0        2.5         3.2
 GDP percapita                           2.g       -0.4       -11.5        l.Q 2.0
 Esorts of floods and servicas            5.6        1.4      -10.9      inn           5.9

STRUCTUREor the ECONOMY
mQfGQn                                          f9B3         1493     2002        2003

Agricutture                                      13.4         7.4       9.4         9.5
Induslry                                         33.1        29.7     26.8         27.0
   Manufachrring                                 25.4        21.1      17.5        17.6
Sewitas                                          53.5        63.0     63.8         63.5
Privateconsumption                               69.1        72.6     72.7         73.2
General governmentconsumption                    14.5        12.2      12.8        11.9
lmportsof gmds and sewices                       23.6        19.6 ,    19.6        23.4

                                              1983.93 1993-03         2002        2003
(suerege amoalgToMh1
Agricuiture                                       1.7         0.0       6.7        -1.0
lndusby                                           2.3        -1.2    -12.4         -1.0
   MahufacbAng                                    1.8        -2.1    -13.8         -1.0
selvices                                          4.6         0.8    -13.2          4.5
Privateconsumption                                4.7         0.3    -17.0         -@.e
Generalgovernmentconsumption                      2.2         0.1    -10.8         -9.2
Grossdomestic invesbnent                          5.8        -3.9    -32.2         -3,O
importsof gmdband sBNic85                         9.2        -0.2    -27.9         -3.0

Note: 2003 dataare preliminaryestimatm.
This table wasproducedtom the DevelopmentEconomics csntral database.
  The diamondsshonfour key indicators inthe country(in bold) compred with its inwme.gmup amrage. ifdata are missing.the diamondwiii
    be incomdete.




                                                                               80

PRICES andGOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1983      1993      2002      2003
Dom~socpnces                                                                    inflatian [%)
19s &angel
Consumerprices                          1000      54.3       13.9     23.0
lmplicltGDP deflator                     537      47.9       10.7      17R
 Government tinance
 (94 of Gap, im!udSscurrentgmts)
Currentrevenue                                    17.1      23.5      23 8
 Currentbudgetbalance                              1.3       -3.6      -2 3
 Olrerall surplus~deflcii                         -0.9       -5.0      3.7

TRADE
                                         1983     1993      2002      2003      &portend ImparlIwels (US$ mill.)           I
Total everts(fob)
(USSmdlrans)
                                        1 045    1.645     1.934      2.127
  Meal                                    3 E      355       485       534
  Vegetables                              139     293        214       301
  Manulacturfs                            383     858        907       098
Total Imports(df)                         788    2.326     2.130      2.107
  Food                                     57      212       194        192
   Fueland energy                          RB      268       326       323
   Capital goods                          189      953       574        568
 Exportprice index(f@J5=?W)                         a4         87        87
 Importpdceindaw (tOQE=lOOl                         LQ         89        91
 Terms of trade /19;)5=100j                         a5         97        55

 BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1983     1993      2002      ZOO3
 (US$mdllO@
 Exportsof gmds and 88NIWS              1436     2.763     2.661      2.797
 Importsof goodsandseMms                1212     2,864     2.464      2.435
 Resource balonca                         222     -1M         197       362
 Net income                              - 2 s    -183        -75      -142
 Netcurrenttransfers                                53         69        68
 Currentacmunt balance                     -63    -244        191       288
 Financingitems(neb                         3     -1m
                                                   423     -2.513       427
 Changesinnetr6e"s                          66             2.322       -714
 Memo-
Reserves includinggold (US%miLbnsl                    1.212         772      1,486
Convewionrate (DEC bcaVUS%]               3.46E-2       3.9        213         28.2

EXTERNALDEBTond RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                      1993         2002
VSSmh&ns)                                    1983                            2003
                                                                                           Composition of 2002 debt (US$mill.)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed           3,292    4.w        10,736
  IBRD                                          92     5z?          703
  IDA                                           0         0           0                             G 1,600      A 703

TotaldsMservice                               407      587        1.280
  IBRD                                          22       a3         104
  IDA                                           0         0           0
Compositionof netresourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 1       18            9
  Officialcreditors                             14     154          584
  Privak craditors                             363     1U2           -31
  Foreigndirectinvestment                       0      102          177
  Portfolioequity                               0         0          -39                                                E 227
World Bankprogram
  Cornmihnents                                 45         0         345                    A- IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                                             -
  Disbursements                                 21       41         234                    B- la4    D-Othermultilateral    F- Rivate
  Principalrepayments                           14       49           75                   C IMF
                                                                                             -                              C Short-tsm
                                                                                                                             -
  NQtflQW                                        7       -9         158
  Interestpayments                               a       38           29
  Nettrangfflrs                                 -1      4 7          129  .

TheWorld BankGroup. Thistablewas preparedby countryunitstaff figures maydiffer f" otherWorld Bank publishsddata.                 9n504




                                                                81


Annex 17: Maps
URUGUAY: IntegratedNaturalResourcesandBiodiversityManagementProject




MAP 1




                                      82


