Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7305-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Integrated Natural Resources and Biodiversity Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 16, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7305-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 2005
,
between REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS (B) (1) the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of 
the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of the Project; and 
(2) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as 
an implementing agency of the GEF (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement), the Bank 
has agreed to make a grant to the Borrower in an amount equal to seven million dollars 
($7,000,000) (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the 
Loan, or on their importation (with the exception of import tariffs above 28%), 
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of 
its loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of 
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect 
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Bank.”; and 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Biodiversity Beneficiary” means each farmer and/or livestock producer 
that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and has been selected 
to carry out a Biodiversity Subproject; 
 
(b) 
“Biodiversity Subproject” means a specific set of activities under Part 
A.2 of the Project; 
 
(c) 
“Biodiversity Subproject Agreement” means each agreement referred to 
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(d) “DINAMA” 
means 
Dirección Nacional del Medio Ambiente
,
the 
Borrower’s Nacional Directorate for the Environment within MVOTMA; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Borrower to the Bank, containing the performance indicators for Project monitoring and 
evaluation; 
 
(i) “MEF” 
means 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(j) 
“MGAP” means 
Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca,
 the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fishery; 
 
(k) “MVOTMA” 
means 
Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y 
Medio Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing, Territorial Planning and 
Environment; 
 
(l) 
“NRM Beneficiary” means each farmer and/or livestock producer that 
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and has been selected to 
carry out an NRM Subproject; 
 
(m) 
“NRM Subproject” or “Natural Resource Management Subproject” 
means a specific set of activities under Part A.1 of the Project; 
 
(n) 
“NRM Subproject Agreement” means each agreement referred to in 
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(p) “OPP” 
means 
Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto, 
the Borrower’s 
Office for Planning and Budget; 
 
(q) 
“PEU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Pilot Area” means the areas selected in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in the Operational Manual for the execution of Part B of the Project; 
 
(s) 
“Pilot Area Beneficiary” means each farmer and/or livestock producer 
that meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and has been selected 
to carry out a Pilot Area Subproject; 
 
(t) 
“Pilot Area Subproject” means a specific set of activities under Part B of 
the Project; 
 
(u) 
“Pilot Area Subproject Agreement” means each agreement referred to in 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“PRENADER” means the Borrower’s Natural Resources Management 
and Irrigation Development Project financed under a loan agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank dated March 4, 1994 (Loan Number 3697-UR); 
 
(w) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
21, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  5
-
4
-
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
(x) 
“RENARE” means 
Dirección General de Recursos Naturales 
Renovables
,
the Borrower’s General Office for Renewable Natural Resources within 
MGAP; 
 
(y) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(z) 
“Resettlement” means the impact of involuntary taking of land under the 
Project which taking causes the affected persons to have their:  (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or 
habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; and 
 
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty million 
Dollars ($30,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in 
respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
Page  7
-
6
-
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MGAP with the collaboration 
of DINAMA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, technical, agricultural, conservation, social, 
ecological, environmental and institutional practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above and except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of an operational manual (the Operational 
Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
requirements regarding functions, staffing and organization 
of the PEU; 
 
(ii) 
the draft terms of reference of key personnel of the PEU, 
including, 
inter alia:
 an agronomist as PEU Director, two 
agronomists to coordinate the execution of agricultural 
sustainable development activities and biodiversity 
conservation activities, an accountant and an assistant 
accountant responsible for the financial management of the 
Project, an information technology expert to operate the 
Project’s monitoring and evaluation system, two technical 
assistants, and one secretary; 
 
(iii) 
financial management system arrangements for the Project; 
 
(iv) 
disbursement arrangements for the Project; 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(v) 
flow of funds and monitoring and evaluation procedures in 
respect of the Project; 
 
(vi) 
the criteria for the selection of the Pilot Areas; 
 
(vii) 
requirements and procedures for selection and approval of 
activities and beneficiaries for Biodiversity Subprojects, 
NRM Subprojects, and Pilot Area Subprojects; 
 
(viii) 
model agreements for Biodiversity Subprojects, NRM 
Subprojects and Pilot Area Subprojects; 
 
(ix) 
environmental screening procedures for Biodiversity 
Subprojects, NRM Subprojects and Pilot Area Subprojects; 
 
(x) 
measures to ensure that Biodiversity Subprojects, NRM 
Subprojects, and Pilot Area Subprojects will only have 
positive environmental impacts; 
 
(xi) 
negative list of activities that cannot be included in 
Biodiversity Subprojects, NRM Subprojects and Pilot Area 
Subprojects; 
 
(xii) 
institutional arrangements for Project implementation; 
 
(xiii) 
the draft terms of reference for studies to be carried out under 
Part C of the Project during the first year of Project 
implementation; and 
 
(xiv) 
the Procurement Plan. 
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of 
the Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03.  (a)  The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (a Biodiversity 
Subproject Agreement) with each of the Biodiversity Beneficiaries on terms and 
Page  9
-
8
-
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank for purposes of carrying out Part 
A.2 of the Project.  The Biodiversity Subproject Agreement shall specify: (i) that the 
Biodiversity Beneficiary shall carry out a specific set of activities under Part A.2 of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the procedures set forth 
in the Operational Manual; (ii) that the Borrower and the Biodiversity Beneficiary shall 
each pay the percentage set forth in the Operational Manual of the cost of goods, works, 
services, and operating costs  (in an amount not to exceed the limit per party set forth in 
the Operational Manual) to carry out a specific set of activities under Part A.2 of the 
Project; and (iii) that all procurement of goods, works and services for Biodiversity 
Subprojects shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth in this 
Agreement, the Procurement Plan and the Operational Manual. 
 
(b)  The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (an NRM Subproject 
Agreement) with each of the NRM Beneficiaries on terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank for purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project.  
The NRM Subproject Agreement shall specify: (i) that the NRM Beneficiary shall carry 
out a specific set of activities under Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; (ii) 
that the Borrower and the NRM Beneficiary shall each pay the percentage set forth in the 
Operational Manual of the cost of goods, works, services, and operating costs (in an 
amount not to exceed the limit per party set forth in the Operational Manual) to carry out 
a
specific set of activities under Part A.1 of the Project; and (iii) that all procurement of 
goods, works and services for NRM Subprojects shall be carried out in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in this Agreement, the Procurement Plan and the Operational 
Manual. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (a Pilot Area Subproject 
Agreement) with each of the Pilot Area Beneficiaries on terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project.  The 
Pilot Area Subproject Agreement shall specify:  (i)  that the Pilot Area Beneficiary shall 
carry out a specific set of activities under Part B of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; (ii)  
that the Borrower and the Pilot Area Beneficiary shall each pay the percentage set forth 
in the Operational Manual of the cost of goods, works, services, and operating costs  (in 
an amount not to exceed the limit per party set forth in the Operational Manual) to carry 
out a specific set of activities under Part B of the Project; and (iii) that all procurement of 
goods, works and services for Pilot Area Subprojects shall be carried out in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in this Agreement, the Procurement Plan and the 
Operational Manual. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each Biodiversity Subproject Agreement, NRM Subproject Agreement and Pilot Area 
Subproject Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive 
Page  10
-
9
-
or fail to enforce any Biodiversity Subproject Agreement, NRM Subproject Agreement 
and Pilot Area Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.04. 
(a)  The Borrower, through MGAP, shall establish, operate and 
maintain during Project execution a unit (the PEU) with organizational structure, staff, 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation, 
coordination and supervision of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall ensure that 
any change of the PEU structure, staff, personnel, functions and responsibilities shall be 
effected only with the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall establish an inter-ministerial coordination 
committee (the ICC), led by the Minister of MGAP, and including the Director of OPP, 
the Minister of MEF and the Minister of MVOTMA to coordinate Project activities with 
other MGAP programs, define the policy framework within which Project 
implementation will take place and discuss main policy and budget issues related to the 
Project. 
 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower, through the PEU, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and each semester 
thereafter during the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank
,
shortly after each such report’s preparation, each 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through the PEU, shall: 
 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, no later than September 2008, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period from the Effective 
Date to the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank
’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prior to the commencement of any actions under each Biodiversity 
Subproject, NRM Subproject, and Pilot Area Subproject:  (i)  carry out an environmental 
screening and/or an environmental assessment (as the case may be) of the respective 
actions; and (ii) if required by the Bank, approve an environmental management plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, for such actions (which plan shall be based on the results of the 
environmental screening and/or environmental assessment, if any), all in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
immediately after said approval, implement and/or cause to be 
implemented (as the case may be) the corresponding environmental management plan in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that Biodiversity Subprojects, NRM 
Subprojects and Pilot Area Subprojects do not include any activity that may cause 
Resettlement. 
 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MGAP, shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MGAP, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of the reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of 
expenditure (as the case may be), the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
MGAP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
 
Page  14
-
13
 - 
 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under any of such agreement; and 
 
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower will be able to perform its obligations under the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled;  
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by 
the Borrower; 
 
Page  15
-
14
 - 
(c) 
the PEU has been established and staffed as set forth in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
the Borrower has established, and made operational, financial 
management arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, and the format for FMRs has been 
agreed with the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The date September 14, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of MGAP of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 702. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Constituyente 1476 
 
Tercer Piso 
 
11200
Montevideo 
 
Uruguay 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(59-82) 419-8175 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  16
-
15
 - 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Danilo Astori 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Honorary Witness: 
 
By /s/ José Mujica 
Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries 
 
Page  17
-
16
 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
NRM Subprojects 
23,000,000 
95% of the cost 
 
of
goods, works, 
 
services and 
 
operating costs 
 
for NRM Sub- 
 
projects 
(2) 
Goods (other than  
 
those included in  
 Category 
(1) 
above) 
600,000 
95% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
 
under Part C.1(a), C.2(a) 
 
C.3(a)(ii), C.3(c), C.3(d) 
 
and C.4 of the Project 
2,800,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Operating costs (other than 
 
those included in Category (1) 
 above) 
1,000,000 
70% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
150,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under  
 
Rate Caps 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
and Interest Rate 
 
this Agreement 
 Collars 
 
Page  18
-
17
 - 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(7) Unallocated 
2,450,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 30,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule 
the term “operating costs” means reasonable 
expenditures, which would not have been incurred absent the Project, for the maintenance 
and leasing of vehicles and equipment, for fuel, office supplies and other consumables, 
utilities and travel and accommodations. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not subject to prior 
review by the Bank pursuant to Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
 
5. 
Upon written notification from the Bank, the Borrower may request withdrawals 
from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any 
other information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based 
Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any 
withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit to the 
Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project 
for the six-month period following the date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
Page  19
-
18
 - 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
Page  20
-
19
 - 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20
 - 
Annex A  
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
 - 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  23
-
22
 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to promote:  (a) 
the adoption of economically and environmentally viable integrated production systems 
among farmers and livestock producers, within a context of holistic ecosystem and 
natural resources management; and (b) an increased understanding of the role of 
biodiversity in agricultural landscapes and the potential impact of the various land use 
practices upon biodiversity and their economic and ecological sustainability. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
Natural Resources and Biodiversity Management
1. 
Carrying out demand-driven sub-projects (Natural Resource Management 
Subprojects or NRM Subprojects) consisting of investments and technical assistance to 
promote the adoption of: 
 
(a) 
improved natural resources management practices in livestock 
production systems, with special reference to improved management of natural pastures; 
 
(b) 
improved cultural practices in dryland agriculture that may improve the 
conservation and management of soil and water resources; and 
 
(c) 
improved soil and water resources management systems in irrigated 
areas, which could include investments to consolidate and expand irrigation development 
under PRENADER. 
 
2. 
Carrying out demand-driven sub-projects (Biodiversity Subprojects) to promote 
biodiversity initiatives, consisting of investments and technical assistance which may 
include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
financing of incremental costs of biodiversity conservation and 
management, with special reference to native grass species; 
 
(b) 
engaging in sustainable management of timber and non-timber products 
from native forests; 
 
(c) 
engaging in management and conservation of native fauna; 
 
(d) 
generating silvo-pastoral initiatives; and 
 
Page  24
-
23
 - 
 
(e) 
developing rural tourism based on native species. 
 
Part B
:
Establishment of Pilot Areas
Carrying out sub-projects (Pilot Area Subprojects) in Pilot Areas with 
demonstration farms on the Recipient’s savanna and native forest ecosystems (grasslands 
and 
serranías
), for sustainable use of natural resources in key micro-catchments which 
are of importance for biodiversity, combining sound practices for natural resources 
management with the creation of increased public awareness of the significance and 
socioeconomic importance of biodiversity. 
 
Part C
:
Support Services
Developing support services that contribute to the efficient implementation of 
Biodiversity Subprojects, NRM Subprojects and Pilot Area Subprojects, including: 
 
1. 
institutional strengthening of MGAP, focused on RENARE:  (a) to increase its 
efficiency in the field of natural resources, as well as to strengthen its support to the PEU 
in the same field; and (b) to increase its efficiency in the field of biodiversity 
conservation and management, as well as to strengthen its support to the PEU in the same 
field; 
 
2. (a) 
upgrading the Borrower’s geographical information system developed 
under PRENADER; (b) promoting a better knowledge of the biodiversity in Pilot Areas; 
and (c) carrying out eco-regional planning activities in the territory of the Borrower; 
 
3. 
carrying out training activities, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) specialized training for 
professionals who will provide technical assistance to:  (i) Biodiversity Beneficiaries and 
Pilot Area Beneficiaries for Biodiversity Subproject and Pilot Area Subproject 
preparation and execution, respectively; and (ii) NRM Beneficiaries for NRM Subproject 
preparation and execution; (b) training for producers (final beneficiaries) in innovative 
forms of biodiversity use and improved natural resource management techniques, 
certification, easements and land tax exemptions;  (c) training for employees of RENARE 
and the PEU; and (d) training for employees of other Borrower agencies; and 
 
4. 
(a) 
carrying out studies to improve the Borrower’s natural resources 
management policy framework and to cover other subjects relevant to the Project 
identified by MGAP; and (b) financing applied research proposals to develop improved 
natural resource management practices in areas with particularly difficult conditions. 
 
Part D
:
Project Coordination
1. 
Supporting the establishment and operation of the PEU. 
 
Page  25
-
24
 - 
2. 
Supporting the establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation 
system for the Project. 
 
3. 
Supporting the design and implementation of a public information and 
dissemination program of Project activities, with the objective of informing the general 
public, political leaders,  beneficiaries and their associations, and the media regarding the 
rules of the Project, the value of biodiversity and the necessity for conserving and 
maintaining the quality and the quantity of natural resources. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2011. 
Page  26
-
25
 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: 
 
(a) 
the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by  
 
(b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2010 
 
through April 15, 2020 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Page  27
-
26
 - 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  28
-
27
 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
Without limitation to the provisions in Parts A and B of this Section, the 
following additional provisions shall govern the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
 
1. 
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award. 
 
2. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding. 
 
3. 
Foreign bidders may be required, as a prerequisite for bidding, to be registered 
with local authorities, provided, however, that the information to be requested from such 
bidders is of such nature that it will not discourage their participation. 
 
4. 
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order 
for a contract to be subsequently awarded. 
 
5. 
After the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially 
concerned with this process until the publication of the contract award (except as 
provided in paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines). 
 
6. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar)
 their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Uruguayan 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding. 
 
7. 
There shall be no preference for domestic contractors. 
 
Page  29
-
28
 - 
8. 
The prices of contracts for consultants’ services over one year duration may be 
adjusted. 
 
9. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar)
 their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure. 
 
10. 
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, requests for 
expressions of interest, the evaluation reports of bids and proposals, and contract awards 
of all goods, works and consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall be published in a 
web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding. 
 
(b) 
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Page  30
-
29
 - 
 
4. Commercial 
Practices
.
Items estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract and to be financed for Biodiversity Subprojects, NRM Subprojects and/or Pilot 
Area Subprojects under Parts A.1, A.2 and B of the Project, may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consulta
nts’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Commercial 
Practices.
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract and to be financed for Biodiversity Subprojects, NRM Subprojects and/or 
Pilot Area Subprojects under Parts A.1, A.2 and B of the Project, may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.  
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.
 
If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for such contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, shall be subject to 
Page  31
-
30
 - 
prior approval of the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
