Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1007 
Project Name 
Integrated Natural Resources and Biodiversity Management 
Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P070653 
GEF Focal Area 
B-Biodiversity 
Global Supplemental ID 
P077676 
Borrower(s) 
URUGUAY 
Implementing Agency 
MGAP 
Oriental Republic of Uruguay 
Uruguay 
 
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries 
Uruguay 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[X ] S
1
[
X] S
2
[X ] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 1, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 13, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
October 14, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Uruguay is well endowed with natural resources for livestock and agricultural production, and 
the combination of agriculture and agro-industry sectors represent up to 23 percent of the Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP) of Uruguay. But, even this figure belies the combined importance of 
these two sectors to the economy as a whole; over half of their output is exported, and in the 
early 2000s represented over 70 percent of Uruguay’s total export earnings. For agriculture to 
continue its role of supporting economic development, it must increase even more its outward 
orientation, paying particular attention to production specialization, quality improvement and 
processing; and on the exploitation of Uruguay’s particular advantages, such as its counter-
season relationship with the northern hemisphere and its capacity for natural, organic and 
“green” agriculture and livestock production.     
 
The increase in agricultural production must come from increased productivity, precisely 
because the geographical frontier was reached long ago.  For long-term sustainability, it is 
essential that such intensification must not prejudice the natural resource base that supports it.  
There are encouraging signs that the erosion and degradation of soils provoked by inappropriate 
cultural practices established half a century ago have been significantly reduced over the past 20-
30 years.  The reduction in the total cropped area has largely eliminated the cultivation of the 
marginal and vulnerable soils, and has been accompanied by the adoption of rotations (including 
Page  2
planted pastures) and agricultural practices (such as minimum and zero tillage) that significantly 
reduce erosion. During the last years, an increase in the land planted with  soybeans  is providing 
an alternative to the rural economy, but at the same time another threat to natural resources, 
especially to biodiversity.  
 
Increase in livestock production will come largely from increased productivity in its extensive 
beef production sector and from improved management of natural pastures, which constitute the 
basis of this production system.  While a reduction in the size of the national sheep flock (from 
26 to 12 million) during the 1990s has removed one of the main threats to natural pastures from 
over-grazing, the extensive beef production system remains fragile and its long-term 
sustainability threatened by the risk of natural pasture degradation. 
 
Although land and pasture degradation has been reduced over the past quarter century, many of 
the activities that make up the current production systems present new environmental challenges 
that need to be addressed within a context of sustainable development.  A lack of profitability at 
the farm level could provoke an inappropriate and eventually detrimental use of natural 
resources, to the extent that producers are forced to lower their planning horizon and place 
emphasis on the achievement of immediate and short-term solutions to cash flow shortages. This 
is particularly true in the case of extensive beef production sector, which uses 80% of the 
country’s land, 70% of which is under natural pastures.  Additionally, biodiversity has seldom 
been considered by farmers as an integral element of their production strategies. Uruguay must, 
therefore, develop strategies and mechanisms to exploit fully the attributes of its natural 
resources, such as its natural pastures, the potential for organic farming and sustainable use of 
agricultural biodiversity, in the pursuit of market opportunities presented by ever-more-aware 
and demanding consumers. 
 
Significant changes have taken place also in the way producers utilize and manage water 
resources in Uruguay. Reduced crop pressure on land and livestock pressure on natural pastures 
has been accompanied by a substantial expansion of irrigated agriculture, partially supported by 
the Bank-financed Natural Resources Management and Irrigation Development Project, 
PRENADER I, (Loan 3697-UY).  As pressure grows on available water resources, an expansion 
of irrigated agriculture would have to be accompanied by improved efficiency of water use and 
management in the agricultural sector that will require a broad range of initiatives, from 
consolidating irrigation investment carried out under PRENADER, increased investment in 
irrigation technology and improved water quality to proper management of livestock-related 
effluents through to the establishment of a more systematic groundwater monitoring systems. 
 
In tandem with an agricultural use of natural resources that emphasizes natural products and 
integrated production systems approach, biodiversity conservation and the maintenance of 
healthy eco-systems offer additional opportunities for the rural economy.  The conservation and 
management of biodiversity requires the establishment of a framework of incentives to private 
landowners to promote land-use practices that exploit the synergy between conservation and new 
opportunities for rural income generation. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
Page  3
The proposed Bank/GEF blended project would assist Government in its efforts to promote the 
adoption of economically and environmentally viable integrated production systems among 
small and medium farmers and livestock producers. Within the context of a holistic ecosystem 
and natural resources management approach, the project will improve natural resources 
management, conservation of soils, water and rangelands, while increasing productivity and 
mainstreaming biodiversity conservation in producers’ investment and production decisions, thus 
ensuring the economic and environment sustainability of agricultural and livestock development. 
Within this integrated production system approach, the project aims to promote also increased 
understanding of role of biodiversity in agricultural landscapes and the potential impact of the 
various land use practices upon biodiversity and their economic and ecological sustainability.  
 
The Project would provide financial incentives on a matching-grant basis and technical 
assistance to medium- and small sized farmers, with emphasis on plans by groups of farmers, to 
invest in sustainable agricultural and livestock production practices, mainstreaming biodiversity 
in their investment proposals, in order to ensure the conservation and sustainable use of natural 
resources and biodiversity, as well as to consolidate and expand productive investments made 
under PRENADER I. 
 
While the proposed project would have a nation-wide execution, the GEF-funding will be 
devoted only to the savanna and native forest ecosystems, with special emphasis on two key 
geographical areas, one in the north and the other in east, where the “
quebradas
”
are the last 
remaining areas of native vegetation associated with water springs and water courses.  
 
The project would strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture’s overall natural resources 
management capabilities through training of staff and expanding the Geographical Information 
System and related natural resource management tools developed under PRENADER I. 
Additionally, the project would support an institutional capacity building program at the central 
and regional level  for the development and implementation of national strategies for the 
conservation and sustainable use of agricultural biodiversity and to promote their mainstreaming 
and integration in sectoral development programs 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Government of Uruguay and the World Bank have collaborated for more than fifty years in 
the development of the agricultural sector.  Most of this effort was directed towards the 
productive aspects of agriculture, but during the past decade a broader approach has been 
adopted in the rural areas; in particular, there has been an increased emphasis
 
on
environmental 
issues and on the achievement of long-term sustainable production systems, mainly through 
improved natural resources management.  Lessons learned from the recently completed Bank-
financed project (PRENADER I) and the conclusions of the ESW, indicate that any future 
operation in the agricultural sector in Uruguay should go beyond irrigated agriculture and dairy 
production and include natural resources management in the extensive livestock and crop 
production sub-sectors as well as the conservation and management of agricultural biodiversity. 
The long standing collaboration with Government in the country’s agricultural development and 
the recent experience with the implementation of the PRENADER I Project, plus the Bank’s 
experience with GEF-financed biodiversity projects in other parts of Latin America, would make 
Page  4
the Bank a privileged partner to support Government efforts to improve natural resources and 
biodiversity management. The main purpose of  2002 CAS was to define the best strategy for the 
Bank to assist the Uruguayan Government to deal with the economic and financial crisis that was 
affecting the country that year. Consequently, its conclusions and recommendations are not 
directly relevant for investment project lending. 
 
4. Description 
 
Total project costs have been estimated at about US$ 96.0, which would be financed through a 
Bank loan of US$30.0 million, a GEF Grant of US$7.0 million, Government counterpart funds 
of about US$ 3.0 million, and beneficiaries’ contributions of about US$ 56.0 million .  
 
Based on a blend of an IBRD Loan and a GEF Grant, plus the Government and beneficiaries’ 
contributions, the project would finance four main components as follows: 
 
1. Natural Resources and Biodiversity Management Component (US$ 87.6 million),
 
through the establishment of a Fund, the project would provide technical and financial 
assistance to demand-driven activities aimed at  promoting sustainable management of 
natural pastures and rainfed as well as irrigated agriculture. The GEF contribution to the 
Fund would support mainstreamed demand for biodiversity initiatives in priority 
ecosystems. 
 
2. Establishment of Pilot Areas (US$ 1.5 million)
,
to implement pilot demonstrations of 
sustainable use of natural resources in key micro-watersheds of biodiversity 
 
3. Support Services (US$ 3.9 million)
,
which would include training and technical 
assistance to farmers, institutional strengthening of local and central authorities(through 
improved GIS and studies), and specialized training for technical staff providing 
technical assistance to farmers. 
 
4. Project Coordinating Unit (US$ 2.8)
,
which would be responsible for overall project 
execution and the Monitoring and Evaluation System. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
30 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
7 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The overall responsibility for the management of the Project will rest with the Ministry of 
Livestock, Agriculture and Fishery (
Ministerio de Ganadería, Agricultura y Pesca, MGAP
). An 
Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee (ICC),  lead by the Minister of Livestock, Agriculture 
Page  5
and Fishery and including the Minister of Housing, Territorial Planning and Environment 
(
Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y Medio Ambiente, MVOTMA
),  and the 
Director of the Office of Planning and Budget (
Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto, OPP
), 
will be created to coordinate project activities with other MGAP programs, define the policy 
framework within which project implementation will take place, and discuss main policy and 
budget issues related to the project. The representative of the Minister of MVOTMA would be an 
official from its National Environment Division (
Diriección Nacional del Medio Ambiente, 
DINAMA
). 
 
In the overall management of the project, MGAP will be assisted by the existing Project 
Executing Agency (PEU) of PRENADER I, which will assume now responsibility for the overall 
coordination of the proposed project activities and carry out project management functions, 
including all aspects of the sub-projects cycle, M&E, financial management, and overall 
reporting and coordination with the Bank. The PEU would report directly to the Minister and 
work in close cooperation with the Renewable Natural Resources Division of MGAP (
Dirección 
General de Recursos Naturales Renovables, RENARE
)
and its regional offices.  
 
After the formal launching of the project, the PEU will implement the project dissemination and 
promotion program, with the participation of the RENARE and its regional offices; the Regional 
Offices of the MGAP; DINAMA ; the Rural Development Tables (
Mesas de Desarrollo Rural, 
MDRs
)
;
(and local governments. 
 
The preparation and execution of investment proposals to be financed by the project will be the 
responsibility of beneficiaries, for which they will receive specialized technical assistance, partly 
financed by the project. Beneficiaries would be able to submit their proposals either to the 
regional offices of RENARE  or directly to the PEU in Montevideo. Sub-projects will be 
evaluated in the first instance by the RENARE’s Regional Offices and then submitted to the PIU 
for final evaluation and approval.   
 
The Operational and Financial Flows are presented in Annex 6. Details of procedures and 
implementation arrangements will be included in the Project Operation Manual, which will be a 
condition of project effectiveness. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
This newly developed approach in the rural landscape of Uruguay would develop and promote a 
different way of “doing business as usual” without changing the productive context but including 
improved practices for natural resources and incorporating biodiversity into this sector, bringing 
country-driven information, advisory, technical and extension services and drawing special 
attention to viable farming and silvo-pastoral practices that help conserve and sustainable use 
biodiversity in the agricultural landscape.  It would ensure public participation in a new means of 
getting products from rural sectors, promote the identification and development of new 
marketing and business opportunities for more diversified production systems including eco-
friendly produce, and create a sense of belonging for native biodiversity.  In turn, it would 
establish the human and institutional capacity to promote sustainable solutions to agro-silvo-
pastoral initiatives beyond the project while at the same time conserving biodiversity, including 
Page  6
training, demonstration, and technology transfer, among others.  Incremental costs for this 
different way of doing business and for mainstreaming biodiversity into the rural landscape 
would be covered by the GEF.  The sustainability would be also confirmed by the demand for 
investments in which farmers would have to contribute partially refundable investments for 
natural resources management operations. Though this project is based upon a land-use strategy, 
a
legal-based research would provide national opportunities (as easements already considered in 
the legal framework) or bringing international experiences to provide incentives for conservation 
of biodiversity.  
 
Demonstration areas in micro-watersheds of importance to biodiversity would be developed 
jointly with small- and medium-sized local farmers.  These demonstration pilot projects would 
remain in place after project completion, given that farmers would be the owners and the 
proponents of these activities in partnership. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Key lessons learned from implementation of the PRENADER  Project include:  
 
·
the importance of adequately targeted Government incentives to promote irrigation 
development and production diversification into high-value export crops, particularly in 
an environment that has been traditionally dominated by extensive agriculture and 
livestock production like Uruguay. 
 
·
In a country where extensive agricultural and livestock production are predominant, 
natural resources management programs should address issues related to soil, water, 
pasture management and conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in an integrated 
manner. 
 
·
The project was successful in promoting sustainable agricultural practices among small 
farmers, through a micro-catchment approach in areas of intensive agriculture, and 
demonstrated the importance of the participatory approach and farmers organizations to a 
successful natural resources management program. Through adequate monitoring and 
evaluation of results, pilot experiences can establish the foundations for a scaled-up 
nationwide program. 
 
·
In order to maximize the impact and sustainability of financial incentives to promote the 
expansion of privately-owned irrigation infrastructure, procurement procedures should 
encourage beneficiary ownership and reduce, or eliminate, reliance on public institutions 
for O& M. 
 
·
Continuity of TA services beyond the duration of the project is essential to the long-term 
impact and sustainability of investments. 
 
·
In addition to agronomists, the establishment of professional teams for the delivery of 
extension services in programs related to Natural Resources Management (specifically 
Page  7
sociologists, engineers and economist), enables a project to be better prepared to respond 
to multiple demands of producers. 
 
·
The incorporation of private organizations in the implementation of applied research 
programs (as in the case of AUSID) increases the possibilities of collaboration between 
researchers, producers, extension specialists, and local institutions, and consequently 
provides an effective synergism and potentially higher adoption rates. Adequate 
beneficiary ownership and participation is also instrumental to the effective 
implementation of government programs aimed at promoting diversification and exports 
of nontraditional products. 
 
·
A
holistic approach is key to develop a sustainable agricultural production systems 
among small farmers in order to include other elements relevant to the increase in 
competitiveness of production, beyond mere productivity, such as awareness of 
commercial opportunities, product quality, certification, integration with commerce and 
with agro-industry in promoting joint action by producers. 
 
General lessons learned from other related GEF projects are: 
 
·
innovative financing and support mechanisms are needed for the long-term conservation 
of biodiversity, especially outside protected areas 
·
address the true root causes of biodiversity losses as its links to social and political 
aspects as in the case of Uruguay where biodiversity is the main productive landscape but 
not appropriately incorporated into the productive matrix.  
·
provide the necessary mechanisms to avoid the tendency for biodiversity to be stand 
alone and include it into the economy of the country. 
·
the sustainability of the proposed approach, once the GEF financial support is finished, 
needs to be guaranteed, thus providing ways for the continuation of sound practices for 
biodiversity conservation. 
·
interventions should be based on conservation of sites and ecosystems, thus providing 
alternatives for 
in situ 
conservation of globally important species. 
·
capacity building at the local and regional level is essential to provide the necessary skills 
and knowledge not only to promote biodiversity conservation but also to ensure that an 
adequate legal and policy framework is in place. 
·
stakeholders’ participation should be promoted since the very beginning of the project’s 
conception, enhanced during project preparation to raise all issues related to biodiversity 
conservation and management and creating the sense of ownership. 
·
biodiversity projects should adopt a holistic approach to the protection of  biodiversity of 
global importance, such as land degradation, forest conservation, freshwater management 
combining global benefits from individual focal area projects.  
·
the private sector should be incorporated into biodiversity management, especially 
outside protected areas where, as in the case of Uruguay, the conservation of biodiversity 
is in private hands. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Page  8
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[X] [ 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
URUGUAY:  Proyecto de Manejo Integral de los Recursos Aguas y Suelos - TCP/URU/0167, 
Volumes I-V, Rome:  FAO Investment Centre, 2004 
 
Proyecto Combinado GEF/IBRD “Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemas y Recursos Naturales en 
Uruguay” - Componente “Manejo y Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica”- Subcomponente 
Turismo Rural – Laura García Tagliani, Diciembre 2003 
 
Proyecto Combinado GEF/IBRD “Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemas y Recursos Naturales en 
Uruguay” - Componente “Manejo y Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica” – Subcomponente 
Manejo Integrado de Pradera – Pablo Boggiano, Diciembre 2003 
 
Proyecto Combinado GEF/IBRD “Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemas y Recursos Naturales en 
Uruguay” - Componente “Manejo y Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica” – Subcomponente 
Bosque Nativo - Compilación, sistematización y análisis de la información disponible publicada 
o
en proceso, descripción de la situación actual y propuestas de intervención – Rafael Escudero, 
Carlos Brussa & Iván Grela, Marzo 2004 
 
Proyecto Combinado GEF/IBRD “Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemas y Recursos Naturales en 
Uruguay” - Componente “Manejo y Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica” – Subcomponente 
Fauna Silvestre (Rancheo y Caza) – Francisco Rilla Manta, Enero 2004 
 
Proyecto Combinado GEF/IBRD “Manejo Integrado de Ecosistemas y Recursos Naturales en 
Uruguay” - Componente “Manejo y Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica” – Subcomponente 
Generación de Iniciativas Silvopastoriles – Luis Gallo, Enero 2004-07-06 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  9
11. Contact point 
Contact: Michael G. Carroll 
Title: Sr Agriculturist 
Tel: (202) 473-9528 
Fax:  
Email: Mcarroll@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
