 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14816

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/10/2015

               Country: Africa
             Project ID: P110616                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Nile Basin Initiative        Project Costs (US$M):                      24.00                24.00
                         Institutional
                         Strengthening Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      24.00                24.00
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):                       6.75                 7.83

           Cofinanciers: German BMZ                   Board Approval Date :                              10/21/2008
                                                               Closing Date:             03/31/2012      12/31/2012
          Sector(s):      Public administration- Water sanitation and flood protection (100%)
          Theme(s):       Water resource management (45% - P); Environmental policies and institutions (45%);
                          Participation and civic engagement (10%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
M. Gary Costello          Robert Mark Lacey       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p.7), the PDO was "The Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) has
strengthened the foundation for institutional sustainability, enhanced capacity, and harmonized corporate
management to more effectively deliver programs and projects".

According to the Nile Basin Trust Fund Grant Agreement (NBTFGA, p 6), "the objectives of the Project are to
strengthen the foundation for NBI's institutional sustainability, and to enhance capacity and harmonize corporate
management among NBI Institutions to more effectively deliver programs and projects".

This Review adopts the statement of objectives articulated in the NBTFGA.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 The PAD (Annex 4: p. 48) notes that the Nile Basin Initiative Institutional Strengthening Project (NBI-ISP) consists of
a single, integrated package of institutional strengthening to be implemented across the three NBI institutions – the
umbrella NBI Secretariat (Nile-SEC) at Entebbe, Uganda; the Technical Regional Office of the Eastern Nile Subsidiary
Action Program (ENTRO) at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; and the Coordinating Unit of the Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary
Action Program (NELSAP-CU) at Kigali, Rwanda. The project supported the following original components for which
only appraisal cost estimates are provided in the project documents (see note on revised components below):

Component 1: Strengthening and Harmonizing NBI Corporate Management and Governance (Appraisal: US$ 8.57
million): (1) strengthen corporate management capabilities, including strategic planning and results based reporting,
and develop and apply corporate policies on cross-cutting issues; (2) consolidate the legal foundation, institutional
governance arrangements and operational plans for NBI’s future activities; (3) strengthen and harmonize
administrative systems and functions across all three NBI centers; and (4) strengthen the Nile National Focal Point
Offices and NBI regional linkages.

Component 2: Enhancing the Foundation for Knowledge -based Water Resource Management (Appraisal: US$ 2.37
million): (1) establish NBI’s integrated water resource management functions; (2) develop and strengthen knowledge
management, integrated databases, data sharing, documentation and information functions; (3) introduce common
Basin-wide guides and standards for selected International Water Resource Management (IWRM) principles; (4)
integrate the tools, knowledge and processes developed under the Shared Vision Program (SVP) into permanent
operations, including mainstreaming of the Decision Support
System; and (5) strengthen capacity in IWRM and related areas that support effective River Basin Management.

Component 3: Enhancing the
Foundation for Water Resource Development (Appraisal US$ 3.37 million): (1) strengthen project identification,
preparation and facilitation capacity's; and (2) strengthen program and project management capacity's for water
development.

Component 4: Strengthening Stakeholder Participation and Communication (Appraisal US$ 3.77 million): (1)
strengthen stakeholder participation and engagement in NBI; (2) enhance knowledge, reputation and acceptance of
NBI through implementation of the agreed communications strategy; and (3) enhance incorporation of social
development dimensions in preparation and implementation of NBI investment projects and augment capacity of NBI
and member governments in development communications and social development.

Component 5: Management of Shared Vision Progra (SVP) (Appraisal US$ 2.90 million) (i) finance the management
by The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) of ongoing SVP projects during 2009.

Revised Components: As a result of the mid-term review (MTR) held in early 2011, and as subsequently formalized
by project restructuring, the project's components were revised to address the design weakness. Accordingly, each
components activities and their respective budgets were reorganized to fit within the revised components. The five
revised components directly related to the five revised results framework outcomes. A new component 4 -- the NBI
has the corporate capacity to deliver its core functions -- was created to fill a gap in the project's original design. Key
indicators were also revised to make them more specific and include measurable annual targets. These revisions
were formalized in March 2012. The revised components were:

Component    1. NBI has improved capacity to facilitate cooperation (Actual: US$ 10.60 million)
Component    2. NBI knowledge-based water resource management function strengthened (Actual US$ 2.02 million)
Component    3. NBI water resource development function strengthened (Actual: US$ 3.01 million)
Component    4. NBI has the corporate capacity to deliver its core functions (Actual: US$ 5.38 million)
Component    5. Management of Shared Vision Program projects (Actual: US$ 3.01 million)

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost: At Appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$ 24.00 million. The actual project costs detailed in
the ICR are also US$ 24.00 million and are detailed for the revised components. The ICR (Annex 1) equates project
cost with the NBTFGA grant amount. No account is therefore taken of other donor or of the Recipient’s contributions,
which are nonetheless included in the financing table in Annex 1.
Financing: The NBTFGA Grant disbursed 100% of the original amount. According to Table (b) of Annex 1, there was
cofinancing from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (appraisal estimate,
US$6.75 million equivalent, actual US$7.83 million equivalent) and a contribution from the Confidence Building and
Stakeholder Involvement Project (US$1.08 million at appraisal and closure).
Borrower Contribution : The appraisal estimate for Nile Basin Governments support was US$ 1.91 million. The actual
was US$ 2.60 million.
Dates: The project was restructured on 03/30/2012 and closure was extended by nine months to December 31, 2012.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial

The development objectives were relevant at both closure and appraisal to the World Bank Group's development
priorities for the ten countries which make up the Basin (Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and Sudan). For example, the Bank's Interim Strategy for Egypt (2012)
specified water availability and water quality as critical issues, particularly in the Delta, and Ethiopia's Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS FY 2013-2016) emphasized infrastructure and water supply. Additionally, the objectives
were consistent with the Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS).

The Basin covers some 3 million square kilometers – one tenth of Africa’s land mass. For millennia, the Nile River has
played a central role in human settlement. The Basin includes world class environmental assets, notably Lake
Victoria, the second largest freshwater body in the world, and the vast wetlands of the Sudd, roughly the size of
Belgium. These countries are characterized by extreme poverty. GDP per capita in four of the Basin’s countries rank
in the bottom 20 for the world. Food insecurity plagues the region due in part to high rates of inter- and intra-annual
rainfall variability and insufficient infrastructure to regulate river flow. Water-related shocks (e.g., droughts, floods)
have wielded devastating impacts on lives and economies in the region; climate change is likely to exacerbate these
impacts.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
The objectives were clearly defined. A key element of design was for NBI to internalize the key outputs of the Shared
Vision Program (SVP) projects as the building blocks of the functions needed in river Basin management, in particular
those relating to water resource management and planning, transboundary environmental strategies, capacity
building, stakeholder participation and communications' strategies and capabilities. The SVP includes seven thematic
projects focusing on water resources, environment, power trade, agriculture, applied training, communications and
stakeholder involvement. An eighth project provides for coordination of the SVP and strengthens the capacity of NBI
institutions.
However, the project was complex and ambitious, especially given capacity limitations of the lead Center, NileSEC,,
and the proposed duration of 3 years for institutional strengthening was not sufficient. The need to recruit key staff
resulted in delays in getting initial activities underway in particular the
Institutional Design Study which was expected to inform the needs for strengthening of the current institution as well
as options for a future institution. The three core functions of the NBI had not been defined and agreed at the design
stage (indeed, this process was to be supported by the project), so that it was not possible to align components with
those functions. Having procurement and financial management experts in each country often led to conflicting
advice. In accordance with the political agreement between the participating countries, leadership was to be shared
on a rotating basis. The consequent reliance on hiring professionals on one year short term consultancy contracts led
to employment insecurity and lack of job continuity along with being administratively burdensome for the organization.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The degree of achievement of the project development objective -- to strengthen the foundation for NBI 's
institutional sustainability , and to enhance capacity and harmonize corporate management among NBI Institutions to
more effectively deliver programs and projects – is rated substantial .
Outputs
   Core functions endorsed by NBI governing bodies.
   The strategy for institutional and financial sustainability of the NBI was presented for the approval of the
      participating governments, and is being implemented.
   The proposal for member states to finance the full cost of minimum NBI functionality by 2017was approved by
      the Nile Council of Ministers with implementation starting July 2013.
   The Water Resource Management and Planning Project (WRM/P) Units at all 3 Centers became fully operational
      and fully staffed. The Decision Support System (DSS) was successfully transferred from WRPM to the Nile Basin
      Initiative Secretariat (Nile Sec).
   The DSS sustainability plan was developed.
   Transboundary investment projects aimed at attracting at least US$ 1.0 billion in in investment financing were
      developed.
   The NBI Strategic Plan was developed and approved to provide five year direction and priorities for NBI in July
      2012.
Outcomes
There is evidence to suggest that, thanks to the support provided by the project, NDI has developed the capacity to
manage programs and projects effectively and to attract investment financing from a variety of sources including IDA
and AfDB. Additionally, good progress has been made in obtaining financial commitments from member states to
support core costs. Specifically:
   The 35th NileTAC meeting approved the elaborated NBI core functions including: 1) Facilitating Cooperation 2)
      Knowledge-based Water Resources Management; and 3) Supporting Water Resources Development. These
      were subsequently approved by the Nile Council of Ministers in July 2012.
   Water Resource Management departments/units are reported to be operational in all 3 NBI Centers and are
      described by the ICR as adequately staffed.
   The DSS is reported to be fully integrated in and operational at the Nile Basin Initiative Secretariat (NileSEC),
      with a DSS sustainability plan in place and under implementation. Funding is secure for the next two years
   NBI developed a simple high level management tool for quarterly portfolio monitoring which enabled the progress
     of projects to be monitored, along with identifying key problem issues and actions required to remedy them.
    US$1.3 billion of investment financing was secured, including Rusumo Falls, Nile Equatorial Lakes (NEL) power
     interconnection, Ethiopia- Sudan power interconnection, and Eastern Nile watershed protection. This exceeded
     the US$1 billion target.
    Thanks to NBI’s enhanced capacity, the entire NBTF portfolio of ten projects with a combined value of US$90m
     was implemented along with projects funded by other donors.
    As of project closure, 27% of NBI staff costs were covered by Member State contribution. The target was 50%.
     Member states are reportedly committed to increase the contribution.
    A comprehensive Environment and Social Policy that reportedly reflects international safeguards standards was
     developed and is being implemented.

5. Efficiency:
 Modest

Cost-benefit analysis was not considered appropriate as the project's main activities were targeted at institutional
strengthening and knowledge development and management. However, no alternative assessment of ex post
efficiency was attempted.

According to both the PAD (p.23), and the ICR (p.29), the economic justification of the project lies in its facilitating role
in the generation of economic benefits throughout the Basin through sustainable management and cooperative
development. It was expected that over the long-term, NBI would be able to develop a full Basin sustainability
function, delivering real environmental benefits and creating the framework for optimal Basin-wide planning and the
development of water resources. At the same time, the project was also expected to improve institutional capacity to
deliver economic development projects to the riparian countries through investment financing and incentivize regional
integration as evidenced by increased transboundary trade. Political benefits “would include increased stability and
diminished tensions, and the consequent peaceful environment within which economies are more likely to
thrive” (ICR, p29). While there is evidence that some of these benefits have been have been realized, these are
outcomes reflecting the project's efficacy rather than its efficiency (they are discussed in Section 4 above). Measuring
efficiency implies comparing the benefits with the cost of achieving them. The ICR does not provide any cost
comparisons with similar projects or any other way of assessing cost effectiveness. Consequently, "value for money"
for this project cannot be established.
The project incurred implementation delays at the start which were due to a misunderstanding of the nature of ISP as
an NBI-wide program and insufficient capacity at the lead Center. Project institutions also had difficulty in attracting
and retaining qualified staff.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
      The relevance of objectives is rated substantial in view of the project’s pertinence to a number of country-level,
regional and global environmental priorities. The relevance of original design, which needed to be revised during
implementation, is rated modest.. Efficacy is rated substantial given the evidence suggesting enhanced capacity to
manage programs and projects effectively and to attract investment financing from a variety of sources. Efficiency is
rated modest in the absence of any assessment of cost effectiveness and value for money.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  The risk to development outcomes is rated as significant based on the following:
  The establishment of NBI by all riparians was a historic achievement, and 13 years later, NBI continues to serve
    all its members. However, the future political context for Nile cooperation remains uncertain. At project closure,
    six countries out of ten had signed the the Cooperative Framework Agreement and only one had ratified it.
  After many years of support, donors are expecting the member countries to increase their financial commitment.
    Until the NBI gains the necessary increase in funding from member states and broadens its financial base, it is
    financially vulnerable.
     At current funding levels, there is a risk of losing momentum with fewer activities in terms of scope and scale, and
      possible loss of key staff.
     NBI needs to become a competitive employer in order to retain staff. NBI's human resource functions are not yet
      fully developed.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Preparation reflected previous Bank experience with the NBI and other international river Basin investments. It
recognized the importance of institutional development as a precursor to future investments in the water resource
sector in member countries. The PAD (p.15) noted that the project's design also provided for the phasing out of
the Shared Vision Program projects, and for the progressive main streaming of key outputs, services and
capabilities within the NBI institutional structure.

Critical risks to achieving the PDO were identified along with potential risks to component results. These risks
were rated modest. Economic, financial, and safeguards assessments were carried out and were prepared
according to Bank guidelines. M&E design was based on the results framework. It contained indicators, baselines
and annual targets for the PDO, outcome and output levels which were pertinent to the initial design.

There were, however, significant shortcomings in Quality at Entry. While institutional weaknesses particularly at
the NileSEC were recognized, insufficient time was allowed for start-up. Key staff were not in place which resulted
in implementation delays particularly with the Institutional Design Study which was expected to inform the needs
for institutional strengthening. Additionally, the ICR (p.14) reports that a more detailed Project Implementation
Plan would have helped better to guide the initial activities, providing a clearer methodology than described in the
PAD.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Bank supervision teams carried out their specific responsibilities as required. The Bank reviewed overall NBI
portfolio performance as part of assessing NBI’s overall capacity. Fiduciary compliance was monitored with
support from three Bank country offices. The ICR noted that having procurement and financial management
experts in each country often led to conflicting advice and did not enable effective comparison between centers or
learning across them.

The Bank supervised the project on average twice a year. Supervision report ratings were consistent with the
project’s performance. M&E provided an adequate basis for supervision reporting.

The mid-term review (MTR) and its follow-up were critical in providing technical support for the project's
restructuring along with recommending an extension of the project timeframe. Restructuring was formally
approved in March 2012. However, the ICR (p.34) notes that an independent evaluation in 2010 recorded delays
by the Bank in providing "no objection".

More than seventeen partners support the NBI through technical and financial support, largely through the Nile
Basin Trust Fund(NBTF). The Bank is activiely involved in NBTF through bi-annual committee meetings.
Additionally, annual work plans and budgets were developed by NileTAC with assistance from the Bank and GIZ
as implementing partners.

Support for safeguards compliance was appropriate through engagement with NBI to develop the environment
and social policy and guidelines.



     Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:
     The project involved a partnership by the governments of ten countries. Government Performance in this case
is taken to mean the NBI member countries as represented by the Nile Technical Advisory Committee (NileTAC).
As such, NileTAC was designated the ISP Project Steering Committee (PSC) to provide strategic guidance during
ISP implementation. The ICR (p.34) notes that an important role of NileTAC was to encourage actions supportive
of the goal to strengthen the "one Basin, one NBI" philosophy and mitigate the risk of fragmentation.
Overall the PSC fulfilled its function, providing adequate strategic guidance in the course of regular NBI business.
This included reviewing all key outputs such as the Core Functions, Strategic Plan, Financing Strategy, program
framework, policies, procedures and manuals as well as approving annual work plans and budgets. Whilst the
TAC guidance was paramount for a project of this nature, the ICR (p.34) reports that some concerns were raised
that its work was not strategic enough and frequently delved into operational matters.
The participating Governments made progress in improving the NBI's financial situation. In accordance with the
Financing Strategy, the countries committed to increase funding for the NBI gradually, and to pay pay for the
entirety of the core costs of the institution by 2017. Since the Strategy was approved, country payments to the
NBI have increased by more than 400%, to cover over two-thirds of the core costs of the NBI. This was
supplemented by annual in-kind donations to the NBI.

   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The implementing agencies for the project were the three NBI Centers with the Nile Basin Initiative Secretariat
(NileSEC) taking on overall designated lead for the project. Despite delays early on, the NBI improved its
performance and pace, implementing all the activities as planned and successfully achieving the project outputs.
In addition, the Centers effectively managed the budget expenditure.

The NBI Task Team Leaders in each Center worked well together coordinating project activities and taking
responsibility for agreed actions. Proactive support and guidance was also provided by the three Center Heads
who substantially assisted the project to achieve its objective. In particular the Center Heads managed and
mitigated risks and engaged the NileTAC to resolve any outstanding issues.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The ICR (p. 19) reports that the project's M&E system was based on the results framework (RF) as described in the
PAD. It contained indicators, baselines and annual targets for the development objectives, outcome and output levels.
A comprehensive Performance Management Framework was developed including the baselines, end of project
targets, and interim six monthly targets. The NileSEC was responsible for managing the overall M&E system for the
project.

b. M&E Implementation:
  The RF was revised at the mid-term review (MTR) in early 2011 and that revision also involved revisions with the
M&E system. This revision was necessary due to the change in components and activities agreed to during the MTR.


NileSEC aggregated project performance and results including review of implementation progress and budget
expenditure. During the early years the timely flow of information between Centers was a challenge. Over time,
information flow improved and the Centers undertook joint M&E planning. Staff were designated as M&E officers in
each Centre and received training. The ICR (p.19) suggests that more could have been done to gain feedback from
key stakeholders to inform and better target communication activities and products.

M&E quarterly reports were disseminated for NBI internal use. Bi-annual and and annual reports were disseminated to
the NileTAC. These reports formed the basis for the Bank's supervision activities. The project helped NileSEC
develop a portfolio monitoring tool for all NBI projects. On a quarterly basis, all Centers reviewed progress across the
portfolio, assessing the percent achieved in relation to percentage of time and percent spent This system included a
corresponding ‘traffic light’ rating system. The ICR (p.19) reports that this initiative helped the Nile Equatorial Lakes
Subsidiary Action Program Coordination Unit (NELSAP-CU) to deliver on their NBTF portfolio of eight projects with a
value ofUS$37 million.

 c. M&E Utilization:
    The M&E system was utilized by the senior management of the NBI, the various NBI task teams and the Bank team
to track project implementation and results. M&E information was important in setting the revised project goals/targets
initiated at the MTR.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as a Category B project for environmental assessment purposes because one project
component was to strengthen the NBI’s water resources development ability to identify, prepare, and raise financing
for investment projects which might entail safeguard policy risks. Other than Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01),
the International Waterways safeguard (OP 7.50) was triggered. According to the PAD (p. 27), an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for minor works has been prepared and publicly disclosed by the NBI, as an addendum to
the NBI Strategy for Addressing Environmental and Social Safeguards. The NBI would ensure that the contracts
would include the issues of dust, noise, injury to third parties and laborers.

The ICR (p.20) reports that over the life of the investment, the project did not directly finance any activity that had
safeguard impacts. An important goal of the project was to enhance human resource capacity within the NBI
institutions to carry-out safeguards assessments related to water resource investments. One of the key outcomes of
the project was a comprehensive Environment and Social Policy that reflects international safeguards standards.
Guidelines for project preparation were prepared and were in use by the Subsidiary Action Programs (SAPs) and
NBI’s social and environmental staff received training such as in social analysis and resettlement.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . The ICR (p.20) reports that NBI hired and maintained qualified financial management staff at
each Center and utilized computerized accounting systems for all accounting operations. For this project, a financial
management manual was prepared and approved by the Bank. Interim Financial Reports were prepared on a
quarterly basis within the stipulated deadline of 45 days after the end of the quarter through the E-Signature and
E-Disbursements processes with the Bank’s client connection system. The project consistently submitted audited
financial statements and the associated management letter within the stipulated headline. The past audit reports for
FY09-12 were unqualified. The project disbursed 100% of the grant amount of US$ 24.02 million, utilizing all the funds
within the project period.
Procurement. All three NBI Centers developed and implemented the systems and procedures necessary to fulfill
Bank procurement requirements. NBI prepared a procurement manual which was approved by the Bank, and was
updated in line with Bank amendments. Staff received training,and procurement plans were prepared for each Center.
The ICR ((p. 21) reports that post procurement reviews were undertaken periodically and an action plan maintained to
ensure that areas of weakness, such as record keeping, were resolved. Whilst the project contained no major
procurement activities, with the exception of two consultancy contracts for the IDS and HR study, the strengthened
procurement capacity was of benefit across the NBI portfolio of projects.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory              Moderately             The relevance of objectives is rated
                                                         Satisfactory           substantial and that of design modest.
                                                                                  Efficacy is rated substantial given the
                                                                                  evidence suggesting enhanced
                                                                                  capacity to manage programs and
                                                                                  projects effectively and to attract
                                                                                  investment financing from a variety of
                                                                                  sources. Efficiency is rated modest in
                                                                                  the absence of any assessment of cost
                                                                                  effectiveness and value for money.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR (pp. 36-42) identified a number of overarching lessons applicable to (i) Basin engagement The most
important are:
   Institutional strengthening is part of a continuum and requires a long term commitment. Efforts to support the
     NBI have been ongoing for 13 years. As a regional Basin organization, NBI is still relatively young when
     compared with other international Basin organizations.
    It is essential to maintain a platform for Basin-wide dialogue and to continue activities at a technical level
     during periods of political instability. The project provided core support to the NBI during a critical period
     (2008) when a new political framework for cooperation was under discussion and in (2010) when political
     consensus was weak.
    If the principles of, and the approach to, financial sustainability are defined and agreed at the outset,
     subsequent disputes and delays can be minimized. This project introduced the concept of ‘minimum
     functionality’ defined as the minimum level of staff, operations and activities required to maintain the basic
     functioning of the institution. Donor and member states contributions were defined.
    Strengthening a regional institution is not a straight forward linear process. It requires flexibility to maximize the
     value of support to meet needs of the institution, particularly when the institution operates within a complex
     political context.
    Bank Supervision capacity and corresponding resources need to account for multiple operational locations in
     regional projects. ISP implementation support required in country staff (procurement and financial
     management ) as well as supervision visits to all three Centers to individually assess progress and review
     issues, followed by a joint meeting of the three Centers together to review findings overall and to agree actions.
     In addition, to brief the PSC, attendance was required at the NileTAC meetings. This was time and resource
     intensive.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR adequately analyzed the weaknesses and shortcomings in both design and implementation of the project. It
provided details on a range of implementation challenges. It provided a detailed assessment of the rationale for
restructuring and specified the changes in component focus required to fully implement project activities and achieve
the original PDO. The annexes were well prepared, especially Annex 2 which detailed outcomes and outputs for the
PDO and project components. Annex 2 also presented details on changes in the Resource Framework (RF) and
corresponding changes in targets and indicators resulting from the project restructuring. One shortcoming was the
lack of any substantial attempt to assess ex post efficiency.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
