Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18119
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR1EDIT 2527-ZIM)
Jrune 30, 1998
Macroeconomics I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                      Zimbabwe dollar (Z$)
Board approval (June 1993) US$1       =            Z$6.44
Closing (December 1997)   US$1                    Z$16.77
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSO                       Central Statistical Office
ERS                       Export Retention Scheme
ESAF                      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESAP                      Economic Structural Adjustment Program
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
GMB                       Grain Marketing Board
IDA                       International Development Association
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
NRZ                       National Railways of Zimbabwe
PAAP                      Poverty Alleviation Action Plan
PASS                      Poverty Assessment Study Survey
PFP                       Policy Framework Paper
PTC                       Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
SAC                       Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL                       Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA                       Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SDR                       Special Drawing Rights
UNICEF                    United Nations International Children's
Emergency Fund
ZESA                      Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZIMPRE-ST                 Zimbabwe Program for Economic and
Social Transformation
ZISCO                     Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company
Vice President           Callisto Madavo
Country Director         Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager           Ataman Aksoy
Staff Member             Rogier van den Brink, Economist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
SECOND STRUCTIJRAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2527-ZIM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................                             i-vi
PART I: PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................I
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectivies ...............................................2
B. Achievement of Objectives ...............................................6
C. World Bank's Performance ..............................................                      15
D. Borrower's Performance ..............................................                        16
E. Sustainability, Assessment of Outcorne, Lessons Learned .........................................  17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...................................... 21
Table 2: Related Bank Operations                  ..                   .................................... 22
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................                             23
Table 4: Disbursements ...................................... .                                23
Table 5: Key Indicators: Actual and Projected              ...................................... 23
Table 6: Social Indicators ....................................... 24
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants ...............           ....................... 25
Table 8: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs              ...................................... 26
Table 9: Bank Resources - Missions                 ..                  .................................... 26
APPENDICES
A. Cofinancier's Contribution to the IC'R ......................................                27
B. Paragraph 23 of the Letter of Development Policy ......................................      30
C. Map ................... 33
W  orli.   Mi .n............................................................................................................................Wd    B n   a . 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfortnance of their official duties. Its contents may not oth'erwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.-



REPUBLIIC OF ZIMBABWE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2527-ZIM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit in Zimbabwe, for which Credit 2527-Zim in the amount of SDR 88.3
million (US$125 million equivalent) was approved on June 29, 1993 and made effective
on December 8, 1993.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997, two and a half years after the
original closing date. The first tranche, r eleased upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed.
The second tranche which was the final tranche, was released on December 22, 1997.
Co-financing for the credit was provided by Germany (US$28.4 million) and the
Netherlands (US$26.3 million).
The ICR was prepared by Rogier van den Brink, Economist and Task Manager,
AFTM1; Rene Bonnel, Principal Econornist, AFTM1; Kapil Kapoor, Senior Economist,
SACBF; and Tejaswi Raparla, Research Analyst, AFTM1. A first draft of the report was
prepared by a local consultancy firm Imani Development (Pvt.) Ltd. based on materials in
the project file. The report was finalizedi following a mission to Zimbabwe by
Messrs. van den Brink and Kapoor in April 1998.
This report was reviewed by Barbara Kafka, Country Director for Zimbabwe,
Ataman Aksoy, Sector Manager, Macroeconomics 1, Southern Africa and David Cook,
Resident Representative in Zimbabwe. The borrower reviewed the draft document and
agreed with the findings of the ICR without further comments. The EU (which had
provided parallel financing) also reviewed, commented on and agreed with the findings
of this ICR. Germany shared the assessment made by the EU, which is reproduced in full
Appendix A. The Netherlands agreed with the ICR's findings without further comments.



REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2527-ZIM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATIION SUMMARY
i.    Objectives. The Bank's Structural Adjustment Credit II (SACII) supported the
second part of Zimbabwe's Economic Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP). It
followed on from SAC I, which had assisted the Government in undertaking the reforms
covered by the first two years of the ESAP program. The objectives of SACII were to
generate more rapid economic growth by r estoring and maintaining macroeconomic
stability and continuing liberalization of the economy and reform of the public sector,
while protecting the poor from the impact of structural adjustment. In addition to
achieving a more stable macro environment, the following key policy reforms were
supported through SACII: (i) continuing to liberalize trade and exchange rate policies;
(ii) continuing to deregulate agricultural marketing; (iii) deregulating road transportation;
(iv) maintaining sound and sustainable macroeconomic management; (v) reducing losses
and improving performance of public sector enterprises; and (vi) mitigating the social
impact of adjustment by putting the economy on a more employment-intensive growth
path, bringing per capita social sector sperLding back to earlier levels, and implementing
initiatives targeted to the poor.
ii.    Achievement of objectives. Achievement of the objectives of SACII was only
marginally satisfactory. Over the period 1993 to 1997, GDP growth averaged about 3.9
percent per annum (less than the targeted 5 percent), but was highly variable due to the
impact of a drought in 1995. This was equivalent to about 1.7 percent per annum in per
capita terms. Private sector profitability increased, the informal sector grew substantially,
and export growth, and savings and investment rates exceeded expectations. However,
fiscal performance was poor, public sector reform proceeded at a slower than expected
pace and the coordination of macroeconomnic policies was imperfect. These factors led to
a continuation of unstable macroeconomic conditions, characterized by high inflation and
real interest rates, burgeoning public debt and a real exchange rate shock towards the end
of the period. High real interest rates and associated macroeconomic instability
minimized the positive impact of the structural reforms on those new entrants and
existing firms which could not delink themselves from the domestic environment.
iii.   Foreign exchange and trade liberalization were achieved ahead of schedule and a
small trade surplus was recorded for each year until 1996. But Zimbabwe experienced a
severe currency crisis in late 1997 following adverse terms of trade developments, fears



- ii -
of a serious drought in 1998, and some unexpected policy announcements occasioned by
social and political factors which undermined investor confidence.
iv.   While data are imperfect, open unemployment seems to have risen and relative
poverty worsened. There is a widespread perception in civil society that the delays in
implementing important parts of the reform program, continuing high inflation and cuts
in per capita social spending have led to the benefits and costs of adjustment not being
equitably shared. Recent revisions of national accounts, which show declining real wages
but rising company profits during adjustment, coupled with the results of recent poverty
assessments, have tended to reinforce this perception. Industrial disputes and strikes
increased in 1996 and 1997 and mounting social and political tensions, fueled by rapid
increases in the prices of basic commodities that followed the currency crisis, culminated
in civil unrest in late 1997 and early 1998.
v.    Supply response. Higher rates of output growth were achieved in several sectors,
in parti^,ular, in sectors that catered to the international market and had an equity base
large enough not to be negatively affected by domestic interest rates. Commercial
agriculture and private sector services, particularly tourism and transport, have responded
well to economic liberalization. Mining exploration activity expanded rapidly prior to
recenrt falls in world metals prices, but manufacturing has yet to regain its 1990
production level. The reform package improved overall firm profitability, fueled an
increase in domestic and foreign investment, and resulted in more rapid export growth.
Fromn 1993 to 1996, export growth amounted to a cumulative 53 percent in nominal US
dollar terms.
vi.   Consolidated profits of both formal and informal businesses rose substantially
during the SACII period. Increases in profitability at the firm level were related to
increased access to foreign exchange--facilitating replacement of antiquated production
equipment, the decontrol of the domestic market, declining real wages and an
improvement in labor productivity (real unit labor costs dropped by nearly a third since
1993). Informal sector activity also expanded rapidly during this period and became an
important outlet for those unable to find formal sector employment.
vii.   The opening up of the economy also resulted in higher private sector flows.
Foreign direct investment averaged US$53.9 million per annum during 1993-97, while
portfolio investment averaged US$28.6 million per annum. The volume of new foreign
investment approvals recorded by the Zimbabwe Investment Center grew very rapidly in
1996, and 1997, although many of these investments remain to be implemented.
viii. Considerable shifts in the sectoral shares of GDP were recorded, with agriculture
and private sector services increasing their share, and manufacturing and government
services losing share. The good export performance was mainly driven by agriculture,
and to a lesser extent by mining. Manufacturing showed a less marked improvement.
ix.   Many firms in the manufacturing sector (in particular textile and clothing) had to
undergo a difficult transition, which was aggravated by the differences in speed in



- iii -
implementation between the various reforms. Trade and exchange rate deregulation
moved ahead quickly, exposing firms to increased competition and squeezing profits.
But slow progress in fiscal reform resulted in high real interest rates at a time when firms
needed to invest in restructuring. Furtherrnore, Zimbabwe's most important competitor
in the region--South Africa--experienced currency depreciation by about 40 percent in
real terms against the Zimbabwe dollar before recent exchange rate corrections occurred.
The combination of these factors resulted in the downsizing or closure of a number of
traditional manufacturing firms.
x.    Agricultural firms on the whole were more positively affected. Commercial
farmers responded well to the removal of price controls and elimination of marketing
board monopolies. Forward and contract selling developed quite rapidly at a new
Commodity Exchange. The liberalization of domestic maize marketing and processing
resulted in lower consumer prices and a surge in small-scale milling, with more than
12,000 new hammer milling enterprises established since liberalization began in 1993.
Similar positive developments were recorded for other crops and products (oilseeds,
soybeans, cotton, dairy, and beef). Export-oriented horticulture experienced a
particularly rapid growth and is now an important contributor to overall exports. The
deregulation of the transport sector was effective in rapidly expanding the supply of
urban commuter services and enabled small scale-entrepreneurs to take advantage of the
changes taking place in other sectors of tho economy, including the liberalization of
agricultural marketing. Partial liberalization of air transport attracted new airline services
and supported the rapid expansion of horticultural exports.
xi.   Macroeconomic developments. Investment and savings rates were above
expectations, but lack of progress on the fiscal front resulted in high inflation, which
remained at about 20 percent for most of the SAC II period. The need for tight monetary
policy resulted in high interest rates which often exceeded 10 percent in real terms.
Fiscal and monetary policy became poorly coordinated leading to appreciation of the
exchange rate in 1996 and 1997 and turning a small trade surplus into a sizable trade
deficit. There was a series of attempts to bring the fiscal deficit down, but these were
disrupted by certain adhoc new expenditure increases. By 1997, almost 30% of revenues
was needed for debt service, leaving little room for other expenditures.
xii.  In August of 1997, Government armounced that substantial gratuity and pension
payments to Zimbabwe's liberation war veterans, amounting to about 3 percent of annual
GDP, would be made during the fiscal year. Shortly thereafter, Government announced
an accelerated land acquisition and resettlement program encompassing 5 million
hectares - almost half of the land in the commercial farming sector. Concerns about the
effects of these new policies on the budget deficit and on agricultural production and
exports, coupled with the rising trade deficit and fears of a serious drought, resulted in the
currency crisis of late 1997.
xiii. Public sector management. Comnmercialization of public enterprises achieved a
marked improvement in overall financial performance. The operating losses of the 10



- iv -
major public enterprises were substantially reduced. Positive progress was recorded, in
particular by PTC, Air Zimbabwe, the Dairy Marketing Board, the Cotton Marketing
Board, the Grain Marketing Board, and Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority, all of
which are now making positive contributions to the fiscus. However, little or limited
progress was achieved in improving the performance of ZISCO and the National
Railways, and the overall return on public investment in parastatals remains low. After
some delays--caused mainly by concerns to ensure adequate local, indigenous
partiicipation--privatization of parastatals started in earnest in 1997. It is now seen as a
key element in the government's economic strategy.
xiv.  The poor and the impact of structural adjustment. The economic strategy
supported by SACII was intended to create more rapid employment growth, while
increasing per capita investment in basic social services to earlier levels and minimizing
the transitional adverse effects of economic reforms on the poor. This approach yielded
disappointing results in terms of poverty reduction. Between 1993 and 1996, wages in
the private sector (including in commercial agriculture) lagged behind inflation, while net
increases in private sector formal employment were largely offset by reductions in the
public sector. Employment in the informal sector increased, but not by enough to exert
upward pressure on formal sector wages. Slow employment growth and the divergent
trend between wages and profits point to an unequal sharing of the benefits and costs of
adjustment, contributing to mounting social and political tensions, and casting doubt on
the sustainability of the current economic strategy.
xv.   As government sought to lower the fiscal deficit and accommodate rising public
debt service obligations, real expenditures in health and education declined (even though
the non-interest budget share of these two sectors increased). By 1996/97, the budgetary
expenditures of the Ministries of Health and Education were 10 and 3 percent lower in
real terms, respectively, than in 1990/91. The Government has generally managed to
maintain service coverage, but quality has deteriorated and new demands (such as AIDS)
are putting increasing pressures on the system. The Social Dimensions Fund intended to
mitigate the transitional impact of adjustment on the poor was inadequately funded and
its operations were excessively bureaucratic.
xvi.  Bank's performance. Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory.
However, questions can be raised relating to the design of the operation, which seems to
have underestimated the difficulties and timescale involved in bringing the budget deficit
down to a sustainable level and in restoring macroeconomic stability. Tranche release
conditions focused primarily on trade liberalization, domestic deregulation and public
enteiprise reform. Carrying out a comprehensive public expenditure review was not part
of the specific tranche conditionality. Subsequent Bank, IMF and donor pressures led to
such a review being conducted rather belatedly in 1995/96. The review contributed
significantly to the 1996/97 improvements in fiscal performance.
xvii. A similar design question can be raised with respect to the economic strategy per
se. SACII had argued that a rapid supply response would generate the broad-based



v -
support needed to sustain the reform agenda. While a supply response did indeed
materialize, it did not generate the expected broad-based support because it did not
generate employment-intensive growth sufficiently. An economic strategy targeted at
more broad-based growth would probably have included more reforms aimed directly at
changing the dualistic nature of the economy, for instance by complementing the
economy-wide deregulation under the adjustment program with more targeted assistance
to small and medium-scale businesses, labor-intensive export industries and the rural
economy.
xviii. Explicit conditions on per capita social sector spending were not formulated. It
was argued that improving the efficiency of social sector expenditures mattered more
than overall expenditure levels (which seemed adequate by international standards).
During the adjustment operation, it became clear that real expenditures were decreasing,
efficiency was not improving, and new challenges (AIDS) needed to be catered for.
Having explicit conditions for maintaining adequate social sector spending would
probably have served to focus Bank and Government attention more firmly on this issue.
xix.  Borrower's performance. Bonrower's performance during the preparation and
first phase of implementation was satisfactory. The conditions for effectiveness were met
six months after Board presentation. But the borrower's performance became uneven
during the later stages of implementation, causing a lengthy delay of the release of the
second tranche.
xx.   Borrower's performance was generally good in completing the items reflected in
the specific second tranche release conditions, viz. agricultural deregulation, trade and
exchange rate reforms, and investment deregulation. All of these tranche release
conditions were met prior to the original closing date. Performance was poor in fiscal
management and coordination of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies. Slow
progress in lowering the fiscal deficit led to a two and a-half year delay in the release of
the second tranche. Problems of macroeconomic and social policy coordination in the
face of adverse terms of trade developmnents undermined investor confidence and
contributed to the rapid drop of the Zimbabwe dollar towards the end of the program.
xxi.  Sustainability. The sustainabiliiry of the reform program is uncertain. The
Government has continued to deepen the reform program in areas such as trade
liberalization, deregulation of private sector activities, and parastatal reform. Since 1996,
some progress was also made in bringing the fiscal deficit down, but further progress is
needed in expenditure rationalization, revenue enhancement, and asset and liability
management, to keep the deficit at a suslainable level and achieve macroeconomic
stabilization. In addition, to maintain public support for the continuation of the reform
program, it will be important to foster a more equitable distribution of the benefits and
costs of adjustment, and to provide better funded and more effective social safety nets.
Weaknesses in the financial system are becoming increasingly evident and will need to be
addressed urgently as part of the process of restoring confidence in the private sector.



- vi -
xxii. Overall assessment. Substantial progress was achieved in improving the
business environment by reforming the exchange and trade regime, deregulating foreign
and local investment, and liberalizing markets. This was reflected in an encouraging
supply response particularly in commercial agriculture, tourism and transport services.
But contrary to the targets of the reform program, the fiscal deficit was not brought down
to sustainable levels within the program period. Domestic financing of the deficits led to
high nominal and real interest rates, crowding out of the private sector from domestic
credit, and rapidly increasing public debt service costs which have constrained allocations
for the social sectors. There was inadequate progress in employment creation and
poverty reduction.
xxiii. Lessons learned. The structural reform elements of the program including trade,
marketing, exchange rate, and investment deregulation were well implemented and on the
whole produced the expected results. Savings and investment have increased, as have
the economy's export earnings. But these structural reforms cannot be fully effective in
unstable macroeconomic conditions. Slower than expected progress in lowering the
fiscal deficit and restoring macroeconomic stability lowered the impact of the overall
program and resulted in economic growth targets not being fully achieved. Slow growth
and unstable macroeconomic conditions in turn contributed to the benefits of the
economic reform program accruing disproportionately to the modern sectors of the
economy and materializing too slowly for the rural and urban poor.
xxiv. Other lessons learned include:
* there is a need to link the adjustment operation more explicitly to the Bank's poverty
reduction strategy (labor-intensive private sector development and public investment,
rural restructuring, decentralization, and restructuring of social expenditures);
- the maintenance of private sector and civil society confidence that the economic
reform program is well designed and is being implemented soundly and to the benefit
of all stakeholders is important for its continued support and ultimate success; and
* the systematic monitoring of the impact of economic reforms on the business and
household levels could have been more strongly supported as a condition for an
adjustment operation.
xxv. Planned operations. There is an unfinished agenda in macroeconomic
stabilization and structural adjustment, which needs to be implemented to stimulate
growth and reduce poverty. Such an agenda is laid out in the government's recently
published Zimbabwe Program for Economic and Social Transformation (ZIMPREST),
which defines the government's medium-term economic strategy. Support for
ZIMPREST could be provided through an adjustment operation, in conjunction with the
new IMF stand-by and a subsequent ESAF operation.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    At independence in 1980, the Gcvernment of Zimbabwe inherited an economy
characterized by a highly inequitable distribution of productive assets. Foreign interests
dominated the mining sector, the white minority owned and operated the relatively well-
developed industrial and commercial agmricultural sectors, while the majority of the black
population were employed as wage laborers or operated small farms on low-quality land
in the rural communal areas. The manufacturing sector was relatively large but had
grown up under a heavily protected and distorted trade regime, including various forms of
tariff and non-tariff protection and foreign exchange controls. Domestic competition was
also closely regulated through administered prices, monopolies, restrictive licensing and
targeted credit.
2.    Faced with these inequities, the Government rapidly developed the country's
social sectors during the 1980s, achieving substantial improvements in public health and
education services benefiting the black rnajority. At the end of the decade, Zimbabwe's
social indicators ranked among the highest in sub-Saharan Africa.
3.    However, the Government's economic strategy was based on a vision of state-led
development, emphasizing investments iin public companies and parastatals, without
fundamentally changing the market distortions that had underpinned the inward-looking
industrial and agricultural strategy of its predecessor. The mounting inefficiencies of this
economic strategy resulted in lack-luster economic performance during the 1 980s, and by
the end of the 1980s, there emerged a consensus around the need for economic reform.
4.   In 1991, the Government outlined a new policy agenda, published in "Zimbabwe:
A Frameworkfor Economic Reform (FER) 1991-95." It marked a fundamental shift from
state intervention towards a private sector-led, market-oriented economic strategy, aimed
at economic growth and poverty reduction. The FER provided the policy-orientation for
the Government's Economic and Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP), supported by
the International Monetary Fund through an Extended Fund Facility and an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility, and by the World Bank through a Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL) on IBRD terms and a Structural Adjustment Credit (SACI) on IDA terms
(December 23, 1991).



- 2 -
5.    The Bank's SAL/SAC' supported the central components of the first two years of
ESAP, including: (i) fiscal reforms; (ii) trade and exchange rate liberalization;
(iii) domestic deregulation; and (iv) attending to the social impact of adjustment. During
1991/92 and 1992/93, economic growth and employment generation were below
expectations, aggravated by a catastrophic drought in 1992. Fiscal targets were not met,
mainly due to a failure to reform the loss-making parastatal sector and a drop in revenues
caused by tax reductions that were not offset by accelerated growth. Equally important,
the program failed to address adequately the social impact of adjustment, relying on a
narrowly-targeted and poorly-funded Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) program.
6.    But considerable and sustained progress was made in liberalization and
deregulation of the economy: liberalizing imports, decontrolling prices, and deregulating
investment proceeded in line with or more quickly than program targets.
7.    Government's commitment to the reform agenda was further demonstrated by
significant real cuts in non-drought related expenditures, including a reduction in the size
of the civil service, and substantial upward adjustments of consumer tariffs for utility
services.
8.    Demonstrated Government commitment and the need to complete and
complement the reforms started in the first two years of the adjustment program, provided
the rationale for the Bank's second Structural Adjustment Credit (SACII).
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of objectives
9.    The program objectives supported by SACII were to generate more rapid
economic growth by restoring macroeconomic stability, continuing to liberalize trade and
deregulate productive and service sectors and improving public sector management. The
airn was also to better protect the poor and vulnerable households from the impact of
structural adjustment. In addition to maintaining a sound macreconomic framework, the
following specific actions were included as conditions for effectiveness or the release of
the second tranche.
* continuing to liberalize trade and exchange rate policies by progressively moving to
a unified, market-based foreign exchange system and an import regime based on
modest, tariff-based protection by 1995.
condition of effectiveness: improve the efficiency of the Export Retention Scheme
(ERS) market by either moving to a system in which export retentions are held in
nThe SAL (3434-ZIM) and the SAC (233 1-ZIM) were in the amounts of US$125 and US$50 million,
respectively.



foreign exchange, or by allowing importers to hold passbooks and permitting trade
in the actual ERS entitlement.
condition for second tranche release: increase the percentage of their own export
eamrings that entrepreneurs were allowed to retain (under the ERS) from 50 to 60
percent.
* continuing to deregulate agricultural marketing by removing the marketing boards'
monopoly and all remaining price controls in beef, dairy, cotton, yellow and white
maize, oilseeds and wheat.
-    condition of effectiveness: aimounce the specific and detailed agricultural
reform measures set forth in paragraph 23 of the Letter of Development
Policy (Appendix A);
-    condition for second tranche release: implement the agriculture marketing
and processing reform measures set forth in paragraph 23 of the Letter of
Development Policy.
* deregulating road transportation by changing certain restrictive provisions of the
Motor Transportation Act which had prevented the emergence of small-scale
transport enterprises.
-    condition for second tranche release: submit a draft Bill to Parliament
removing route and commodity specific licensing for goods transport, and
focusing licensing regulations to vehicle road worthiness, traffic safety and
insurance coverage.
* maintainingsound and sustainable macroeconomic management
-    condition of effectiveness: present to Parliament (at the end of July 1993) a
budget for fiscal 1993/94 wit]h a deficit of less than 6 percent.
* constraining the losses of public sector enterprises
-    condition of effectiveness: introduce a framework, including a performance
contract, for the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA),
acceptable to IDA.
-    conditions for second tranche release: (i) finalize the
restructuring/efficiency programs for Air Zimbabwe and the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation, and introduce operating frameworks with
performance contracts for both enterprises by January 1, 1994; and (ii)
prepare a plan to improve the financial performance and efficiency of the
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Cornpany (ZISCO) to be agreed with IDA.



-4-
Evaluation of objectives
10.   SACII was prepared at a time when the country was just emerging from the
devastation caused by the drought of 1992, the worst drought to hit Zimbabwe in a
hundred years. Government remained committed to the adjustment effort, but the severe
economic recession resulting from the drought presented a serious challenge as it limited
options for quickly reducing the budget deficit. The adjustment credit therefore focused
on activities designed to generate a more rapid supply response while continuing efforts
to restore macroeconomic stability, improve public sector management and shield the
poor from the transitional effects of adjustment. In order to achieve a rapid increase in
investment and exports, the credit emphasized: (i) trade policy reform; (ii) private
investment deregulation; (iii) transport deregulation; (iv) agricultural market reform;
(v) public sector management; (vi) macroeconomic management; and (vii) the social
dimensions of adjustment.
11.   Foreign exchange reform. The goal was to continue the process of liberalizing
the iforeign exchange regime in order to expand exports and to ensure the smooth and
efficient utilization of scarce foreign exchange resources. This was to be facilitated by a
move to a unified, market-based foreign exchange system. In order to send a strong
signal to exporters, Government decided to use the Export Retention Scheme (ERS) as
the vehicle for further trade liberalization. Under the ERS, exporters were to be allowed
to retain an increasing proportion of their foreign exchange earnings and trade their ERS
entitlements in the open market. SACII supported this approach to trade liberalization
becaLuse it would encourage previously inward-looking domestic manufacturers to seek
out new markets and increase their export earnings. Since ERS allocations could be
traded on the open market, this also entailed that the system of directly allocating foreign
exchange would be phased out and gradually replaced by a market-based foreign
exchange allocation mechanism.
12.   Private investment deregulation. Prior to adjustment, the investment approval
process had become extremely bureaucratic and time-consuming and did not allow
entrepreneurs to respond to emerging opportunities. In particular, the investment
environment discriminated against small-scale investors. It was therefore agreed that
investments made with "own foreign exchange funds" would no longer be required to be
sanctioned by the Zimbabwe Investment Centre, except for the normal clearance required
to ensure compliance with existing environmental, health and safety standards. To
encourage foreign investment, Government permitted unrestricted remittance of after-tax
dividends accruing to any foreign investment. Repatriation of capital gains would be
permitted as soon as the balance of payments position improved. Finally, several steps
would be taken to transform the Zimbabwe Investment Center into a facilitating agency.
13.   Transport deregulation. The regulatory environment within the transport sector
was unduly restrictive, discouraging entry by small-scale transport operations. Because
the transport sector was perceived to be a bottleneck to supply-response, existing
legislation would be revised. The relevant Act would be redrafted such that the



- 5 -
regulations for the transportation of goods would focus only on requirements to ensure
road worthiness, traffic safety, and insurance coverage.
14.   Agricultural market reform. Government had already embarked upon a
program of reforms aimed at increasing the role of the private sector in agricultural
marketing and processing and improving the efficiency of the parastatal marketing
boards. To limit the excessive influence exerted by parastatal marketing boards and large
milling or processing companies on the maize, wheat and oilseeds market, all farmers
would now be allowed to sell their product to any local individual or firm, instead of
having to sell exclusively to the Grain Marketing Board. The marketing and processing
monopoly of the Cotton Marketing Board would also be abolished in order to allow
private firms to participate in all stages of the cotton marketing and processing chain.
The conflict of interest between the Dairy Marketing Board's roles as both economic
operator and regulator would be resolved by shifting the authority for granting licensing
to new entrants in dairy processing and m,arketing to an appropriate authority which
would encourage unrestricted entry of private firms, subject to health certification.
Similarly, slaughter quotas imposed by the Department of Veterinary Services were
eliminated so that the private sector could participate more actively in meat processing.
15.   Public sector management. The combined losses of the major public enterprises
constituted a large contingent liability to the central government's budget. It would be
imperative to reduce these losses through a program of restructuring, and tariff and price
adjustments for most of the public enterprises. In addition, programs would be set in
motion to improve the operational efficierncy of Air Zimbabwe, the Zimbabwe Electricity
Supply Authority, the Posts and Telecomrnunications Corporation, and the Zimbabwe
Iron and Steel Company. These programs would entail preparing restructuring plans,
agreeing on performance contracts, and identifying specific actions that would eventually
result in increased private sector participation, raising new investment and strengthening
the operational efficiency of the public sector.
16.   Macroeconomic management. The FY1992/93 central government deficit of
11.5 percent of GDP was unsustainable. It had resulted in a rapid increase in domestic
indebtedness, crowded out the private sector through high interest rates and poor
availability of credit, and undermined developments taking place in other sectors of the
economy. SACII therefore encouraged the Government to put in place a sound
macroeconomic framework, in the context of the ongoing IMF program.
17.   Social dimensions of adjustment, SACII argued that overall poverty reduction
was to be achieved by bringing per capita social sector spending back to the fiscal year
1991/92 levels. This, in combination with increased economic growth and efforts to
assist small enterprises, including small scale farmers, would alleviate general poverty.
18.   SACII further commended the Government for coping well with the adverse
effects of the 1992 drought by providing maize to almost half of the population, and
urged them to refocus its social assistance program on those affected by the transitional
hardships of structural adjustment. Continuing the public works program started during



-6 -
the drought, better targeting the food subsidy program, and continuing to provide
exemptions of school and health fees for low income families, were the policy
recommendations of SACII. An improved Social Development Fund would assist those
retrenched by the public and private sectors in establishing businesses, including training,
with the support of NGOs and bilateral donors, and the African Development Bank.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
19.   Achievement of the objectives of SACII was only marginally satisfactory. Over
the period 1993 to 1997, average GDP growth was 3.9 percent per annum (compared to a
program target of 5.0 percent), but was highly variable due to the impact of the 1992 and
1995 droughts. This was equivalent to about 1.0 percent per annum GDP per capita
growth. Private sector profitability increased and the informal sector grew substantially.
Export growth, and savings and investment rates exceeded expectations by wide margins.
However, fiscal performance has been poor and the coordination of macroeconomic
policies has been difficult. These factors led to a continuation of unstable
macroeconomic conditions characterized by high inflation and interest rates, burgeoning
public debt and a fluctuating real exchange rate. While foreign exchange and trade
liberalization were achieved ahead of schedule and a small trade surplus achieved each
year until 1996, Zimbabwe experienced a severe currency crisis in late 1997, following
adverse terms of trade developments and a loss of investor confidence engendered by
unexpected policy announcements and expectations of a severe, El-Nifno related drought.
20.   While data are imperfect, open unemployment seems to have risen and poverty
worsened during the SAC II period. There is a widespread perception in civil society that
the cLelays in implementing important parts of the reform program, continuing high
inflation and cuts in social spending have led to the benefits and costs of adjustment not
being equitably shared. Recent revisions of national accounts, which show declining real
wages and slow employment growth but rising company profits during the adjustment
period, coupled with the results of recent poverty assessments, tend to reinforce the
perception that the business sector was the major beneficiary of reforms to date.
Industrial disputes and strikes increased in 1996 and 1997 and mounting social and
political tensions fueled by rapid increases in the prices of basic commodities that
followed the currency crisis, culminated in civil unrest in late 1997 and early 1998.
21.   Supply response. During the period covered by SACII (1993-1997), GDP
growth was highly variable due to the impact of a drought in 1995. The growth rate
oscillated between 1.3 percent in 1993 and 0.1 percent in 1995 (due to drought) to 6.8 and
7.3 percent in 1994 and 1996. Growth averaged 3.9 percent from 1993 to 19972.
22.   Foreign exchange rate liberalization progressed ahead of targets, and contributed
substantially to an increase in the profitability of firms. By 1994, the exchange rate was
2 Preliminary estimate for 1997 is 3.7 percent.



- 7 -
unified and market-determined. The Open General Import Licensing was abolished.
Foreign exchange bureaus were allowed to open. External borrowing by the private
sector up to US$5 million, without the approval of the External Loans Coordinating
Committee, was authorized. The EF' S rate was increased to 100 percent, above and
beyond the 2nd tranche release condition of 60 percent. Furthermore, while the
utilization of retained foreign exchange was originally limited to the importation of raw
materials and capital goods for the exporter's own operations, it was subsequently
modified and expanded to allow the importation of almost any good, key services, and to
be freely traded in the domestic mar]ket, through commercial banks and authorized
dealers. The approach taken proved to be an effective way to liberalize the foreign
exchange market. No disruptions were experienced. It was one of the more successful
components of the program. However, following the currency crisis in November 1997,
Government decided as a temporary measure to dampen speculation to suspend the right
of corporations to maintain foreign currency accounts. It has promised that these
accounts will be reinstated once market conditions have stabilized sufficiently.
23.   In addition to the increased access to foreign exchange and the liberalization of
the exchange rate, private sector profitability was also boosted by the decontrol of the
domestic market.
24.   These policy changes affected sectors differently. As a result, considerable shifts
in the sectoral shares of GDP were recorded, with agriculture and private sector services
increasing their share, and manufacturing and government services losing share.
25.   Many firms in the manufacturing sector (in particular textile and clothing) had to
undergo a difficult transition, which was aggravated by the differences in speed in
implementation between the various reforms. Trade and exchange rate deregulation
moved ahead quickly, exposing firns to increased competition in the domestic market,
while slow progress in fiscal reform resulted in high nominal and real interest rates at a
time when firms needed to invest in restructuring. Zimbabwe's most important
competitor in the region--South Africa--continued to provide export subsidies until 1997
and saw its currency depreciate by about 40 percent in real terms against the Zimbabwe
dollar before recent exchange rate corrections occurred. South Africa did not fully renew
a bilateral trade agreement with Zimbabwe, causing further difficulties for textile and
clothing manufacturers. The combination of these factors resulted in the closure or
downsizing of a number of traditional manufacturing firms.
26.   Agricultural firms on the whole were more positively affected. Commercial
farmers responded positively to the removal of price controls and the elimination of
marketing board monopolies. Forward and contract selling developed quite rapidly and
the Zimbabwe Agricultural Commodity Exchange is now handling a significant volume
of agricultural sales. The liberalization of domestic maize marketing and processing
resulted in lower consumer prices arid a surge in small-scale milling, with more than
12,000 new hammer milling enterprises established since liberalization began in 1993.
The liberalization of oilseeds marke'ting resulted in a substantial increase in production, in
particular in soybean production by large-scale farmers. Liberalization in cotton



-8 -
marketing and the removal of lint subsidies to the domestic textile industry resulted in
increases in cotton production by both small scale and large scale commercial farmers.
The Cotton Company of Zimbabwe was demonopolized and privatized. Real domestic
producer prices increased and a significant supply response from small-scale producers
occurred. The Dairy Marketing Board was also demonopolized and privatized and is
helping to lead an important resurgence in the industry. In the livestock sector, the
monopoly of the Cold Storage Commission over urban domestic beef sales and all beef
exports (except beef export to the EU under the Lome Convention) was removed,
arresting the decline in commercial beef production. Perhaps the most significant impact
of economic liberalization, however, has been in the rapid growth of horticulture, which
now accounts for more than US$ 100 million in annual exports.
27.   In road transportation the registered operator licensing system was liberalized in
1994, increasing entry for new participants. The immediate effect was a boom in
commuter omnibus small businesses. The increase in competition in road transportation
quickly drove down costs and improved service. The deregulation of the transport sector
was effective and enabled small scale entrepreneurs to take advantage of the changes
taking place in other sectors of the economy, in particular the liberalization of agricultural
marketing. Foreign and domestic air services have been partially liberalized, with the
first private passenger airline being formed and several new passenger and cargo services
visiting Harare.
28.   As a result of the deregulation of the economy, and according to revised national
accounts data, private sector profits have risen substantially. Between 1993 and 1996,
consolidated profits of public and private corporations and unincorporated businesses
seem to have increased by about 30 percent in real terms, continuing on the positive trend
established in the early 1990s. The increase in profits from unincorporated businesses,
dominated by small and medium businesses, is quite significant, because these profits
account for about 30 percent of gross domestic income. The increase in profitability was
also facilitated by declines in real wages and an improvement in labor productivity. As a
result, real unit labor costs dropped by nearly a third since 1993, continuing earlier trends.
29.   From 1993 to 1996, export growth amounted to a cumulative 53 percent in
nominal US$ terms. Although partly explained by the recovery from the 1992 drought,
total exports in 1996 were 40 percent higher when compared to the previous peak in
1991. The good export performance was mainly driven by agriculture, and to a lesser
extent by mining. Manufacturing showed a less marked improvement. In particular, no
progress has been recorded in labor-intensive manufacturing (textile and clothing). In
1997, however, export performance is estimated to have declined, due to the impact of an
appreciating currency and falling export prices.
30.   The opening up of the economy also resulted in higher private sector flows.
Foreign direct investment averaged US$53.9 million during 93-97 while portfolio
investment averaged US$28.6 million which adds up to an inflow of capital of US$82.5
million during this period. The volume of new foreign investment approvals recorded by



-9-
the Zimbabwe Investment Center increased significantly in 1996 and 1997, although
many of these investments remain to be implemented.
31.   On balance, the reform package clearly improved overall firm profitability, fueled
an increase in domestic and foreign investment, and resulted in significant export growth.
But the supply response was uneven across sectors, with manufacturing still lagging
behind in output and export growth.
32.   Macroeconomic developmeEnts. Investment and savings rates were above
expectations. Investment averaged 24 percent of GDP over the SACII period (1993-
1996)--well above the ESAP target of 20 percent and normally sufficient to sustain a
GDP growth of around 5-6 percent. (The preliminary estimate for 1997, however,
suggests a slight decrease in the investment ratio to 20.5 percent of GDP). The increase
in investment was financed by a sharp increase in domestic savings, which averaged 22.5
percent of GDP and helped off-set the negative effects to the economy of the budget
deficit. Given that domestic savings include Government dissaving of about 4 percent of
GDP, the private sector savings effort is remarkable.
33.   But lack of progress on the fiscal front resulted in stubbornly high inflation, which
fluctuated around 20 percent for most of the SAC II period and high real interest rates
which at times exceeded 10 percent. 'rhe budget deficit before grants rose from 6.0
percent of GDP in FYI 993/94 to 10.9 percent in 1994/95 resulting in the cancellation of
the final year of an IMF ESAF program and the holding back of the SAC II second
tranche, although the other specific conditions for tranche release had been met. This rise
in the deficit can be attributed to lack of progress on expenditure rationalization, higher
costs of financing the deficit, government absorption of past parastatal debt and declining
revenue collection performance. The deficit stayed high in 1995/96 but came down to 6.5
percent of GDP in 1996/97 as Government implemented the results of Public Expenditure
Review undertaken in 1995 and 1996.
34.   Total revenues deteriorated from 30.7 percent of GDP in 1993/94 to 26.7 percent
in 1996/97 as reductions in direct taxation on companies and individuals were not offset
by expected increases in sales tax collections from sales tax rate increases. There was a
significant drop in the efficiency of ta:xK collection that began to be reversed in late 1996.
Total expenditures declined from 38.4 percent of GDP in 1993/94 to 34.3 percent in
1996/97. The Government managed to reduce non-interest expenditures by about 7
percent of GDP, but these savings were partly offset by increased expenditure on
servicing the rising public debt. Success in reducing public enterprise losses was largely
negated by salary increases to civil servants and increases in retrenchment costs.
35.   Government's financing of the deficit had seen a marked shift from foreign to
domestic financing, which partly reflects the suspension of Bank and IMF financing in
1995. In 1991/92 more than 66 percent of the deficit was foreign financed, but by
1996/97 this had dropped to only 13 percent. The strategy for domestic financing
changed as well. Until 1995/96, the G,overnment financed the deficit mainly by issuing
Treasury Bills which were also used to reduce excess liquidity in the economy by



- 10-
depositing surplus cash reserves with the Reserve Bank (which earned no interest). After
mid-1996, the strategy changed, as Government sought to reduce its interest burden.
Government drew down its cash reserves with the Reserve Bank and by early 1997
started running an overdraft with the Reserve Bank to finance the deficit. While the
Reserve Bank took steps to increase statutory reserves, in aggregate there was a loosening
in monetary policy that had to be corrected later in the year.
36.   Fiscal and monetary policy became poorly coordinated with exchange rate policy.
Exchange rate policy reforms had been aimed at removing the anti-export bias and
improving the competitiveness of the Zimbabwean exporters. In 1994, the exchange rate
became market-determined, and Zimbabwe qualified to sign Article VIII of the IMF in
February of 1995. However, the Reserve Bank intermittently intervened in the market.
After a sharp depreciation in early 1994, the Reserve Bank allowed a gradual appreciation
over the next three years helped by positive terms of trade developments, which allowed
for a progressive build up of reserves. In late 1996 and early 1997, however, there were
adverse developments in export volumes and prices and a surge in imports and the
country started to run a large trade deficit. Foreign exchange reserves fell sharply as the
authorities sought to avoid a rapid fall in the exchange rate.
37.   Later in 1997 some unexpected and fiscally unplanned for public announcements
were made which further undermined private sector confidence. In August of 1997,
Government announced that substantial payments of gratuities and pensions would be
made to Zimbabwe's War Veterans, which were estimated to cost about 3 percent of
annual GDP in FY1997/98. Shortly thereafter, Government announced that an
accelerated land acquisition and resettlement program would be launched that year,
encompassing some five million hectares, which represented almost half of the land in the
commercial farming sector. Concerns about the effects of these announced policies on
the budget deficit and on agricultural production and exports in the face of the rising trade
deficit, falling reserves and fears of a possible El-Ninlo induced drought, contributed to
the currency crisis and stock market falls of late 1997.
38.   Public sector management also showed significant overall progress. The
operating losses of the 10 major public enterprises were greatly reduced, from a total loss
of Z$91 7 million (2.4 percent of GDP) in 1992/93 to Z$184 million (0.2 percent of GDP)
in 1996/97. Part of the improvement, however, was due to the transfer of certain
parastal al debt to the central government. Positive developments were recorded for the
Dairy Marketing Board, the Cotton Marketing Board, the Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (PTC), Air Zimbabwe and Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA),
all of which are now making a positive contribution to the fiscus. The Grain Marketing
Board is now operating on a much sounder financial footing after incurring serious losses
up to 1994. The steel company (ZISCO) and National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) are
now the only major loss makers (as of December 1997).
39.   PTC. A performance contract was drawn up. It included performance appraisals,
a corporate plan and revised investment strategy. The monopoly of the PTC over the



- I1 -
supply of telephone services was removed and a private cellular phone operator was
licensed to compete with the PTC's own system.
40.   Air Zimbabwe. Performance targets and corporate structure were enhanced, and
the company has returned an operating profit since 1993/94.
41.   ZISCO. A comprehensive diagnostic review of ZISCO undertaken by British
Steel consultants in 1994/5 confirmecd that steel making was a potentially viable activity
in Zimbabwe but noted that ZISCO faced severe managerial, equipment and marketing
weaknesses. A cautious approach to restructuring was recommended, focusing on
strengthening day-to-day managemenLt and building domestic and export markets before
making major investments in equipment replacement and balancing. Management
accepted some of the recommendations, but felt that the study's market assessments were
too conservative and decided to proceed with a Chinese contract to refurbish the largest
blast furnace which provided for partial payment through future sales to China. In
parallel, a bid document was issued for private investors to become strategic investors in
ZISCO. The tenders received, all of which required farther up-front investments, were
not considered acceptable.
42.   But negotiations were continued with the most promising bidder, which
Government hopes will become a strategic investor after the refurbishment works
currently underway have been completed. In the interim, little progress was made in
reducing ZISCO's operating losses, which increased from Z$184 million in 1992/93 to
Z$446 million in 1996/97.
43.   Grain Marketing Board. Agricultural deregulation implied a change of GMB's
mandate from monopsonist (with a track record of incurring substantial financial losses,
representing between 6 and 8.5 percent of total Government revenues between 1991 and
1994) to managing a strategic grain reserve (with a hard budget constraint). The
turnaround of GMB was one of the mnost important public sector financial management
improvements under SACII. Deregulation was not complete, however. The size of
annual GMB interventions is such that its price policies have a substantial effect on the
market. Moreover, it retains an export and import monopoly, and remains the buyer of
last resort.
44.   National Railways of Zimbabwe. NRZ has achieved some efficiency
improvements and staff reductions, but it has continued to lose market share to road
transporters who have benefited from deregulation of the road transportation sector.
Operating losses increased, but a major restructuring of the Railways is currently
underway. It will allow private participation in train operations and in ownership and
maintenance of the track.
45.   The poor and the impact of structural adjustment. The economic strategy
supported by SACII was expected to help reduce poverty by stimulating more rapid
output and employment growth, while restoring per capita investment in basic social



- 12 -
services to earlier levels and minimizing the transitional adverse effects of economic
reforms.
46.   This approach yielded disappointing results in terms of poverty reduction.
Between 1993 and 1996, real wages in the private sector (including in commercial
agriculture) lagged behind inflation, while net increases in private sector formnal
employment were largely offset by reductions in the public sector. While there is reason
to believe that official CSO figures are understating the total number of formal
employees, it is unlikely that annual additions to formal employment have matched the
growth of Zimbabwe's working age population3.
47.    Employment in the informal sector has visibly increased, but not by enough to
exert upward pressure on formal sector wages. Upward pressure on wages also did not
ensue, because the reservation wage of the poor did not improve significantly. About 80
percent of the poor and very poor live in the resource-poor rural communal areas4 where
few new policy initiatives, such as investment in rural infrastructure or labor-intensive
public works programs, were implemented. And little progress was made on land reform,
which would have reduced the pressure on the resource-poor rural areas by resettling
farmers onto better land elsewhere. Finally, remittances from family members working
in urban areas constitute an important share of rural incomes. Declining urban wages
caused a major drop in remittances.
48.   The stagnating trend in wages has meant that their share of gross domestic income
has declined from 50.9 percent in 1992 to 40 percent in 1996. By contrast the share of
profits of private firms has increased as a share of gross domestic income from 37.8
percent to 46.5 percent over the same period. The divergent trend between wages and
profits points to an unequal sharing of the benefits and costs of adjustment, contributing
to mounting social and political tensions, and casting doubt on the sustainability of the
current economic strategy.
49.   A fundamental component of the SACII strategy to cushion the adverse effects of
economic reform on the poor was to bring per capita public investment in basic social
services back to the pre-drought (pre- 1992) levels. However, no explicit conditionality
was formulated to this effect. During the SACII period, real expenditures in health and
education declined (even though the non-interest budget share of these two sectors
increased). By 1996/97, the budgetary expenditures of the Ministries of Health and
Education were 10 and 3 percent lower in real terms, respectively, than in 1990/91. The
reduction was mainly brought about by a decline in real staff wages and non-wage
3See World Bank, "Zimbabwe--Economic Update." Draft, 1998; and Tony Addison, 1996, "Zimbabwe:
The Impact of Economic Reform on Livelihoods and Poverty." Paper prepared for the "Poverty in
Zimbabwe"seminar hosted by Shanduko, Center for Agrarian and Environment Research, July 1996.
All estimates need to be treated with caution, given the unreliability of the data.
4Estimate based on the 1991 Income, Consumption and Expenditure Survey.



- 13 -
expenditures. The overall number of teachers and health workers changed little. The
Government has generally managed to maintain service coverage, but quality has
deteriorated and new demands (such as AIDS) are putting new pressures on the system.
The Bank did, however, repeatedly communicate its serious concerns about these trends,
and argued strongly against, for instance, health cost recovery for preventive, basic
services.
*  Narrowly targeted social safety net programs--another component of the SACII
strategy--were also not underpinned by conditionality and also turned out to have
been less than effective.
*  Social safety net programs to provide funds for school and health fees and a minimal
food subsidy have been administered through a very cumbersome means-tested
method. The coverage was veiy limited, with a de facto focus on urban areas, and the
amounts transferred were very low and often delayed. A recent World Bank mission
concluded that a major overhauil of the system was needed.
*  Public works programs were not implemented on a significant scale. SACII's
recommendation to continue and improve the use of public works programs,
implemented during the 1992 (rought as food-for-work schemes, was not
implemented. At the moment, there is no significant public works program in
operation.
*  The Social Development Fund continued to suffer from lack of resources and function
below expectations. Government has been reassessing its approach to targeted social
safety nets and in 1994 published a new Poverty Alleviation Action Plan (PAAP)
which has been presented to donors. An IDA credit for a Community Action
Program, which forms an important component of the PAAP, was approved by the
IDA Board on May 19, 1998.
*  The liberalization of grain marketing and processing was a positive factor, because it
enabled the poor to have better access, and at lower prices, to the more nutritious
straight run maize meal.
50.   Finally, systematic and consistent monitoring of employment, poverty and other
social indicators did not receive sufficient attention under SACII. As a result, there
continues to be a lack of empirical information on basic trends in business performance
and household welfare. The Government published the initial results of a Poverty
Assessment Study Survey (PASS), which suggested a substantial increase in poverty
since 1990/91, when the last household survey was undertaken. Methodological
differences between the two surveys were substantial, and more work is needed to yield a
valid comparison. This analysis h,as not yet been completed.
51.   As part of the Government's Social Dimensions of Adjustment program, sentinel
surveys were conducted in collaboration with the University of Zimbabwe and UNICEF
since 1992. The results of the firsit five rounds of these surveys seem to support the



- 14-
hypothesis that structural adjustment had at best a mixed impact on poverty reduction.
The following salient observations can be made:
*  the removal of subsidies on bread and maize meal and the deregulation of maize
marketing and processing dramatically changed the composition of grain
consumption towards the more nutritious straight run meal, while dietary diversity
appears to have been maintained;
*  primary school enrollment has remained high, but increased costs of schooling may
have reduced access to secondary and tertiary education;
*  the percentage of children whose diarrhea was not treated, because of a doubling of
health fees in January of 1994, increased substantially;
*  condom distribution fell sharply and the number of sexually transmitted diseases shot
up after the introduction of cost recovery for condoms.
Release of the SAC II Second Tranche
52.   All of the specific conditions for the release of the SAC II second tranche (which
are set out in pages 13 and 14 above) had been completed by mid-1995, in line with
appraisal expectations. However, the tranche could not be released at that time because a
further general condition for disbursement, that Zimbabwe should maintain in place a
sound macroeconomic framework, was not being complied with. In fact the fiscal deficit
for 1994/95 rather than falling from the previous years figure of 6.0 percent of GDP in
fact rose to 10.9 percent.
53.   Bank staff continued to work with the authorities to address the fiscal
management problems, particularly through a joint Public Expenditure and Fiscal
Management Review the first stage of which was completed in late 1995 and the full
report in mid- 1996. The findings of this comprehensive review, which dealt with
expenditures, revenues, asset and liability management and budget management systems,
were adopted by Government and provided basis for the improvements in fiscal
performance that have been achieved more recently.
54.   The fiscal deficit out-turn for 1996/97, at 6.5 percent of GDP, was better than
anticipated despite the need to accommodate a higher public sector wage award than
originally provided for. Revenues were higher as a result of an aggressive tax collection
drive and expenditures were kept within budgetary ceilings by introduction of stronger
expenditure controls. This improved performance coupled with presentation of a budget
for 1997/98 that was in line with the agreed path to achieve fiscal sustainability (a
primary surplus of about 2 percent of GDP), provided the basis for releasing the SAC II
second tranche.
55.   However, before the Bank was able to release the tranche, unexpected and
unprovided for new policies mentioned above on payments to war veterans and on



- 15 -
accelerated land reform were announced. The Bank was only able to release the second
tranche in December 1997 after the Government took a number of fiscal measures that
accommodated the increased expenditures for war veterans, and after receiving written
assurances that the implementation of these new policies would be handled in a manner
that did not jeopardize achievement of the agreed 1997/98 fiscal targets nor the intention
to further reduce the fiscal deficit in subsequent years (see Table 5 ).
56.   Role of the IMF. The IMF aIlso provided support for Zimbabwe's adjustment
program. In 1992, the Fund approved parallel arrangements under the Extended Fund
Facility and the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility totaling SDR 386 million,
representing 148 percent of Zimbabwe's quota. Of this amount SDR 310 million was
disbursed before the IMF declared the program to be off-track during the first half of
1995, as a result of the difficulties experienced by the authorities in maintaining a sound
fiscal framework. Since that time, FLnd staff has regularly visited Zimbabwe for Article
IV discussions and continued to provide advice and assistance in fiscal and monetary
management. Bank staff participated actively in all of these discussions. Encouraged by
the progress made in reducing the size of the deficit in 1997, the Fund provided the Bank
with a "comfort letter", which assisted the Bank's decision to release the SAC II second
tranche. In early 1998, an IMF mission visited Zimbabwe to prepare a possible stand-by
arrangement which was approved by the IMF Board on June 1, 1998. It is anticipated
that discussions on a follow-up ESAF arrangement will commence in August 1998.
C. WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
57.   Overall Bank's performance in identification, appraisal and negotiation of the
credit was satisfactory. Bank supervision was also effective, in particular because it was
conducted on a continuous basis by staff in the Resident Mission and reinforced by other
Bank staff in the context of PFP missions, Consultative Group Meetings, IDA investment
projects and certain grant facilities.
58.   However, questions can be raised related to the design of the operation, which
seem to have underestimated the difficulties and time scale involved in bringing the
budget deficit down to a sustainable level. The long lag between planned and actual
release of the second tranche was due to the lack of progress on the fiscal side. Carrying
out a comprehensive public expenditure review was not part of explicit second tranche
release conditionality. Subsequently, Bank, IMF and donor pressures led to such a
review being carried out rather belatedly in 1995/96. This review contributed
significantly to the 1996/97 improvennents in fiscal performance.
59.   The domestic financing of the deficits led to high interest rates and crowding out
of the private sector in the credit market, resulting in a difficult private sector
environment. At the same time, trade liberalization (mainly in the form of "tariffication"-
-replacing quantitative trade restrictions by tariffs) was actually progressing faster than
planned and exposed the domestic inclustry quite quickly to international competition at a
time when the economy had yet to staLbilize. The question can be raised whether at this



- 16-
point in time the fiscal conditionalities should have been strengthened and/or the trade
liberalization slowed down.
60.   SACII had argued that a rapid supply response would generate the broad-based
support needed to sustain the reform agenda. In hindsight, it can be argued that the
supply response did indeed materialize, but did not generate the expected broad-based
support because it did not generate sufficiently employment-intensive growth. Economic
reforms to underpin a more broad-based growth would have required achieving macro-
stability as programmed, accompanied by investment operations which would have
targeted more explicitly improving the environment for small and medium-scale
businesses, labor-intensive export industries and the rural economy.
61.   More narrowly targeted interventions to mitigate the impact of adjustment on
vulnerable groups were referred to in the President's report (public works programs,
social action fund, user-fee exemptions, etc.), but neither the conditions for effectiveness,
nor for the second tranche release, included any of these policy measures. In practice
they were under-funded and implemented slowly and incompletely.
62.   This also applies to social sector spending. Explicit conditions on per capita
social sector spending were not formulated. It was argued that improving the efficiency
of social sector expenditures mattered more than overall expenditure levels (which
seemed adequate by international standards). During the adjustment operation, it became
clear that real expenditures were decreasing, efficiency did not improve, and new
challenges (AIDS) arose. The public expenditure review eventually helped to shed
additional light on social sector spending issues and would have been more valuable if
conducted earlier.
63.   The Bank was also not able to assist the Government in improving the operations
of the Social Development Fund, which has remained largely ineffective. But as a result
of the Bank's assistance to the Government's Poverty Alleviation Action Plan, a
community action project has now been approved by the Bank's Board.
D. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
64.   Borrower's performance during the preparation and first phase of implementation
was satisfactory. The conditions for effectiveness were met six months after Board
presentation. But borrower's performance became uneven during the second phase of
implementation, causing a lengthy delay in the release of the second tranche.
65.   Borrowers' performance was generally good in completing the items reflected in
the specific second tranche release conditions viz. agricultural deregulation, trade and
exchange rate reforms, and investment deregulation. Performance was weaker in fiscal
managemnent, and coordination of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies and social
policies. Inability to reduce the fiscal deficit led to a two and a half year delay between
tranche releases. Problems of macroeconomic and social policy coordination in the face



- 17-
of adverse terms of trade developments contributed to severe exchange rate instability
towards the end of the program.
66.   The Bank's decision to release the second tranche came after improved fiscal
performance in 1996/97, and announcement of a budget for 1997/98 that was in
accordance with the agreed path to achieve fiscal sustainability. However, because of
new policies announced by Government in response to social and political pressures, the
Bank had first to ensure that the necessary compensating fiscal measures were taken and
to obtain assurances that planned payments to war veterans and the accelerated land
reform program would be handled irn a way that would not undermine the budget targets
for 1997/98 nor the intention to further reduce the fiscal deficit in subsequent years.
These measures were taken and written assurances were obtained from Government. The
Government also assured the Bank that the envisaged land reform would be carried out
transparently and in accordance with the law, be undertaken at a pace consistent with
government's administrative and finamcial capacity to resettle small farmers successfully
and would seek to avoid negative impacts on agricultural production and the welfare of
farm workers.
67.   The release of the second tranche in December 1997, and EU cofinancing shortly
thereafter, achieved a timely degree of stabilization of the currency. However, in view of
the significant balance of payments gap remaining, Zimbabwe sought a stand-by facility
from the IMF and is seeking further structural adjustment support from the Bank.
E. SUSTAINABILITY, ASSESSMIENT OF OUTCOME, LESSONS LEARNED
68.   Program sustainability. The sustainability of the reform program is uncertain.
The Government has continued to deepen the reform program in areas such as trade
liberalization, deregulation of private sector activities, and parastatal reform. Some, but
insufficient, progress has been made since 1996 in bringing the fiscal deficit down, but
further progress is needed in expenditure rationalization, revenue enhancement and in
asset and liability management to maintain the deficit at a sustainable level and achieve
macro-economic stabilization. In addition, to maintain public support for the
continuation of the reform program, it will be important to foster a more equitable
distribution of the benefits and costs of adjustment, and to provide better funded and
more effective social safety nets. Weaknesses in the financial system are becoming
increasingly evident.
69.   Overall Assessment. Substantial progress has been achieved in improving the
business environment by reforming the exchange and trade regime, deregulating foreign
and local investment, and liberalizing markets. This has been reflected in an encouraging
supply response particularly in comnmercial agriculture, tourism and transport services.
But contrary to the targets of the reform program, the fiscal deficit has not been brought
down to sustainable levels within the program period. Domestic financing of the deficits
has led to high nominal and real interest rates, crowding out of the private sector from
domestic credit, and rapidly increasing debt service costs, which have constrained



- 18 -
allocations for the social sectors. There was inadequate progress in employment creation
and poverty reduction.
70.   Lessons learned. The structural reform elements of the program including trade,
marketing, exchange rate, and investment deregulation were well implemented and on the
whole produced the expected results. Savings and investment have increased, as have the
economy's export earnings. However, these structural reforms cannot be fully effective if
macro-economic conditions remain unstable. Slower than expected progress in lowering
the fiscal deficit and high inflation and interest rates has lowered the potential impact of
the overall program and resulted in growth and poverty reduction targets not be fully
achieved. Slower growth and unstable macroeconomic conditions have contributed to the
benefits of reform accruing disproportionately to the modem sectors of the economy and
intended benefits for the rural and urban poor being slow to materialize.
Other lessons learned include:
*  there is a need to link structural adjustment more explicitly to the Bank's poverty
reduction strategy (labor-intensive private sector development and public investment,
rural restructuring, decentralization, and restructuring of social expenditures);
* maintenance of private sector and civil society confidence that the economic reform
program is well designed and is being implemented soundly and to the benefit of all
stakeholders is important for its continued support and ultimate success; and
3  the systematic monitoring of and reporting on the impact of economic reforms on the
business and household levels is vital and could have been more strongly supported as
a condition for an adjustment operation.
Planned operations
71.   There is an unfinished agenda in macroeconomic stabilization and structural
adjustment, which needs to be implemented along with further structural reforms to
stimulate growth and reduce poverty. Such an agenda is laid out in the recently published
Zimbabwe Program for Economic and Social Transformation (ZIMPREST), which
defines the Government's medium-term economic strategy. Support for ZIMPREST
could be provided through an adjustment operation program, in coordination with the
IMF stand-by and expected follow-up ESAF arrangement and with possible support from
other multilateral and bilateral sources.
72.   The adjustment operation should focus on a limited number of key policy actions
in privatization, financial sector reform, land reform, fiscal management, and Central
Government restructuring. Given the political sensitivity associated with some aspects of
the pending reforms (privatization, land reform, etc.) and longer timetable associated with
policies involving institutional reforms, a series of single-tranche operations with up-front
action may be considered as a possible alternative to the traditional two or three tranche
operational designs. Key policy actions could include:



- 19-
*  Privatization could focus on putting in place an effective institutional framework for
overseeing the privatization of the largyer parastatals and initiating the process for
selected parastatals such as PTC, NRZ and ZESA. The privatization process--the
general principles and the company-specific steps--will need to be well-defined,
coordinated, and made transparent to tihe public. The adjustment operation could
include the necessary technical assistance, or a separate project could be formulated,
to complement the adjustment operation.
*  Financial sector reforms should primarily focus on putting in place an effective
system of banking legislation and regulation that will create a level playing field for
the different categories of financial institutions, tighten up on licensing of new
financial institutions and strengthen the supervisory mandate of the Reserve Bank.
*  Land reform needs to be addressed since the current situation is undermining private
sector confidence and any significant land reform program will have substantial fiscal
implications. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy fully supports land reform,
both on equity and efficiency grounds. The adjustment operation should seek
affirmation of the principles of transparency, efficiency and fiscal prudence, and
commitment to a transparent and consultative process leading to a clearly articulated
land reform strategy and a costed and phased implementation plan.
*  Fiscal management should be supported by explicit policy actions. First, actions are
needed to contain the overall level of public expenditure and strengthen the revenue
base to enable a consistent primary surplus to be generated for the next several years.
Second, policy actions could be formulated with regard to the allocation and
efficiency of sectoral expenditures. For instance, as identified in the Fiscal
Management Review, it is essential that real per capita expenditures on health and
expenditure are restored.
*  Central Government restructuring. There is a pressing need to redefine and
restructure the public sector. The adjustment operation could catalyze this process by
focusing on a number of quick policy actions, such as supporting the planned
reduction of the number of Ministries. But more complex reforms should be part of a
wider civil service reform program, supported by appropriate Bank instruments.



- 20 -
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Objectives
B.    Program Sustainability
C.    Bank Performance
D.    Borrower Performance
E.    Assessment of Outcome
Table 2:     Related Bank Operations
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Indicators, Actual and Projected, 1992-96
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Credit
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:     Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
Table 9:     Bank Resources - Missions



- 21 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial    Partial     Negligible         N/A
Macroeconomic Policies                                 X
Sector Policies                          X
Financial Objectives                                   X
Institutional Development                              X
Physical Objectives                                                                     X
Poverty Reduction                                                     X
Gender Concerns                                                                         X
Other Social Objectives                                               X
Environmental Objectives                                                                X
Public Sector Management                               X
Private Sector Development               X
B. Program Sustainability          Likely                     Unlikely           Uncertain      I
C. Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                        x
Preparation Assistance                                                X
Appraisal                                                             X
Supervision                                                           X
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                      J
Implementation                                                        X
Covenant Compliance                                                                     X
|E.AssessmentHofOutcome  |HighlySatiUnsctory                           Unsat isfactory    Highly
Assessment of           Unsatisfactory Highly
:000          I                   I  ~~~                ~ ~               ~~XIlI



- 22 -
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Project                           Description                    Board Date
Agricultural Credit and Export  Lending through AFC to short, medium and      05/18/89
Promotion                     long term borrowers in the agricultural sector.
Enterprise Development        To support financing, guarantees and business  04/25/96
services and institutional development so as to
achieve more rapid growth of export and small
and medium enterprises.
Family Health li               To reduce population growth through            06/04/91
expanded family planning and MCH services;
to lower mortality and morbidity through
primary health care and more effective IEC
activities; and to strengthen MOH
management, planning and evaluation and to
enhance sustainability of health service
through a series of finance reforms.
Pilot RDC                     The project will support capacity building of   05/29/97
recently formed rural district councils and
finance small-scale rural infrastructure. As
pilot, will support implementation of the
government's decentralization policy.
Power IlIl                     Power interconnections to South Africa and     01/18/94
Mozambique; operations support, spares and
maintenance services for Hwange power
station; distribution system reinforcement and
extension; and institutional support to Zesa.
Railways II                   Improvements locomotives and rolling stock,     12/04/90
management and operating information
systems.



- 23 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned                    Date Actual
Identification                                                            11/15/92
Preparation                                                               01/22/93
Appraisal                                                                 04/08/93
Negotiations                                                              05/11/93
Letter of Development Policy                                              03/15/93
Board Presentation                                                        06/29/93
Signing                                                                   07/14/93
Effectiveness                                                             12/08/93
First Tranche Release                                                     01/21/94
Second Tranche Release                    09/08/94                        12/23/97
Closing Date                                                              12/31/97
Table 4: Disbursements
(in US$ rnillion equivalent
FY93         FY94       * FY95        FY96         FY97
Appraisal Estimate               62.50        62.50
Appraisal Estimate Cumulative    62.50       125.00
Actual                           50.78        11.02        00.00        00.00        59.98
Actual Cumulative                50.78        61.80        61.80        61.80       131.78
Table 5: Key Indicaton;, Actual and Projected, 1992-95
(% unless otherwise indicated)
Actual                      Bank Projected
Ea2     93      94     95           93    94      95
GDP Growth                              -9 0      1.3    6.8    0.1          7.0   6.0    6.0
Total Investment/GDP                    20 2     22.8   24.1   23.2         23.5  22.5   23.0
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP              11 0     21.0   22.2   20.8         15.9  21.0   23.3
Export Growth (GNFS) (US$)               9 9     19.4    8.8   11.4         12.3  13.3   10.7
Import Growth (GNFS) (US$)               4.6   -15.0   20.3    0.4           5.9   2.2    5.0
Current A/c Balance before grants US$m  -837    -311   -318   -370          -714  -370   -201
Current Account Deficit (% of GDP)     -124      -4.7   -4.6   -4.8        -12.1   -5.9   -2.9
Before Grants
After Grants                           -8.8    -2.1   -2.0   -2.6         -7.6  -2.0   -0.2
Total Revenues/GDP                      27,7    26.8   24.4   24.8          29.3  34.3   34.0
Total Expenditures/GNP                  36.1    34.8   33.0   35.8          38.9  39.0   37.2
Fiscal deficit before grants/GDP         8.4      8.1    8.6   11.0          9.6   4.7    3.2
Fiscal deficit after grants/GDP          6.8      6.1    6.7    9.3
Consumer Price Index (average) Gr. Rate  42.1    27.6   22.2   22.6         35.2   17.9   10.0
Source: Figures under the column Bank Projected are from the Presidents report of Structural
Adjustment Credit 11 (Report No. P 6085-Zirn) dated June 4, 1993 pp.43.
Note: Export and Import growth rates are merchandise trade only, and gross domestic savings is
gross national savings under Bank Projected column.



- 24 -
Table 6: Social Indicators
1990       1991       1992       1993        1994        1995        1996
EDUCATION
Gross Enrollment Ratio(%)                               90.5      95.3       90.5        98.4       94.6                     88.4
Pirmary School Enrollment ('000)                       2,085     2,295      2,306      2,437       2,366        2,483       2,491
Males ('000)                                        1,073      1,168      1,163      1,258       1,202        1,260       1,266
Females ('000)                                      1,012      1,126      1,143      1,178       1,163        1,223       1,228
Female enrollment % to Total                       49%       49%        50%        48%         49%          49%
Secondary School Enrollment (000)                       673        711       657         644         657         710
Males ('000)                                          381       398        368         358        361          386
Females ('000)                                        292       313        289         286        296          324
Female enrollment % to Total                       43%       44%        44%        44%         45%          46%
Teachers                                              88,218    83,640     84,067      85,017      89,575      90,795       91,972
Primary School                                     60,886     58,436    60,834      60,959      63,347      63,475       63,718
Secondary School                                   27,332     25,204    23,233      24,058      26,228      27,320       28,254
Pupil-teacher ratio
Primary School                                         35        39         38         40          37           39          39
Secondary School                                       25        28         28          27         25           26          27
Number of Schools                                      6,042     6,074      6,086       6,096      6,132        6,168       6,192
Primary School                                      4,530      4,559     4,569       4,578       4,611       4,633        4,663
Secondary School                                     1,512     1,515      1,517      1,518       1,521        1,535       1,529
Population 6-13 ('000)                                 2,342     2,409      2,547       2,477      2,618
Males ('000)                                         1,073     1,168      1,163      1,258       1,261
Females ('000)                                       1,012     1,126      1,143      1,178       1,206
Drop-out rates for pupils during transition from Form 2 to 7 (%)
Boys                                                   30        27         30          34         26
Giris                                                  34        36         37         34          34
Drop-out rates for secondary school pupils from Form 2 to 7 (%)
Boys                                                   25        27         25          27          18
Giris                                                  31        37         37          35         27
HEALTH
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)
Total                                                58.3                 52.8                                55.3         56.1
Child Mortality Rate under-5 (per 1,000 live births)
Total                                                  80                                                       83          86
Life Expectancy at birth (years)
Total                                                  61                  59.8                               57.1         56.3
Male                                                 59.2                  58.4                               56.0         55.3
Female                                                 61                 61.4                                58.3         57.3
Matemal Mortality Rate (per 1,000,000 live births)       82         95       109         134         160         145
Child MalnutfiUon (%)
Below line (weight for age)                                                                        17
Acute under nutritionNWasting (weight for age)                                                      8
Shunting (height for age)                                                                          23
Still Birth rate (per 1,000 live births)                20.6      19.3       19.9       18.9        23.1         23.4
Low birth weight (5)                                     7.0       6.0        8.4        8.6        10.9         11.5
Respiratory diseases (new cases per 1,000) All ages     242        254       210         190         258         298
Diarrhea (number of new cases per 1,000)             421,912    489,846    549,567   736,850     614,682      562,999
Dysntery (number of new cases per 1,000)                                                         154,516      153,161
(before 1994 dysentery was included under diarrhea)
Mortality Rate (per 100)
Female                                                 27                                                     39.3
Male                                                  30.5                                                     39.1



- 25 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan
Agreement              Description of Covenant                        Comments
Section
Article III    Particular covenants related to progress    Complied with
monitoring, review, reporting, recording and
accounting
Second tranche release conditions:
Schedule 3, 1 (a) Increase the Export Retention Scheme rate to at   Done
least 60%.
Schedule 3, 1(b) Implement the agriculture marketing and   Done
processing reform measures for beef, dairy, cotton
and maize, respectively, as set forth in paragraph
23 of the Program.
Schedule 3, 2   Introduce, in accordance with paragraphs 42 and   Done
44 of the Program, respective operational
frameworks for Air Zimbabwe and the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation from January 1,
1994, in substance satisfactory to the Bank,
Schedule 3, 3   Adopt a plan satisfactory to the Bank, for (i)  Done
increasing private sector shareholding in the
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company, and (iii)
improving its financial and operational performance
and efficiency.
Schedule 3, 4   Take all necessary governmental action to submit  Done
for parliamentary approval, legislation which would
(i) remove route and commodity specific licensing
for the transportation of goods within its territory,
and (ii) focus licensing requirements on vehicle
road worthiness, traffic safety and insurance
coverage.
Schedule 1, 4   Macroeconomic policy framewor]k is consistent with *  On August 6, 1997, Board agrees to
(c)            the objectives of the Program.                  release second tranche given
satisfactory fulfillment of second
tranche release conditions. However,
just before the second tranche was to
be disbursed, new unplanned public
expenditures were announced (i.e
compensation package for war
veterans), which were not consistent
with the macroeconomic policy
framework.
* This led the Bank to withhold
disbursement of the tranche, until
December 19, 1997, when the
Government had adopted a series of
compensating fiscal measures, and
assured the Bank that its planned Ian
reform program would be
implemented in an orderly manner,
without jeopardizing the fiscal
framework.



- 26 -
Table 8: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                 Staff Weeks                 US$S000
Preparation of Appraisal                                      53.5                     133.9
Appraisal                                                     13.2                      30.7
Negotiations through Board Approval                           16.5                      38.5
Supervision                                                  147.1                     378.3
Completion                                                    20.0                      50.0
Total                                                        250.3                     631.4
Table 9: Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of the ProjectCycle   :     MonthlYear      Number of Persons      Days in Field
Identification                            11/92                 na                  na
Preappraisal                              01/93                 na                  na
Appraisal                                 04/93                 na                  na
Supervision*                              02/96                 na                  na
Completion                                06/97
* Supervision done continuously by resident mission staff.



- 27 -                            Appendix A
Page 1 of 3
EUROPEAN UNION
DELEGATION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION IN ZIMBABWE
Harare, 11 June, 1998
D(98) 7/444/JL/mn
c:\data\letters\444.doc
Mr. David Cook
Resident Representative
World Bank
Finsure House
Union Avenue
Harare
Dear David,
Thank you for the draft Inplementation Completion Report for SAC II that was sent to us for
comments. This is an excellent example of the new partnership between our two institutions.
I am enclosing some short comments on the report which we consider to be of an overall excellent
quality and a useful instrument for our own future support to the economic reform programme in
Zimbabwe.
I am sending a copy of these comments to Messrs. Rogier van den Brink and Rene Bonnel in
Washington.
Sincerely,
J.C. LAERKE
Acting Head of Delegation
Enc.
cc:    Messrs. Rogier van den Brink and Rene Bonnel, Washington
Construction House, 6th Floor, 110 Leopold Takawira Street, HMare, Zimbabwe
P.O. Box 4252 Harare, Zimbabwe
Telephone 707120, 707139, 752835, 722137, 707143 Telefax 725360



- 28 -                           Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
JL/10.6.1998
c:Aata\wordcornsacI.doc
SHORT COMMENTS ON
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE SAC II (WORLD BANK)
1.    First of all, the overall analysis of past experience during the later period of ESAP
(199:3-1997) seems perfectly correct and coincides with the analysis made by other independent
sources.
2.    Looking back, the liberalization of agricultural marketing and pricing, the opening of the
Stock Exchange to foreign investment, and the trade and payments reforms which took place
during that period yielded better than expected results. This is true most notably with respect to
exports, savings and investment. Savings increased from some 16% in 1993 to 24% in 1996, while
investment grew from 21% to 26% over the same period. Exports expanded at an average annual
rate of 10% between 1992 and 1997. This translated into economic growth that, over the period,
averaged some 4% p.a., just sufficient to keep read GDP per capita more or less constant.
3.    However, two negative results were recorded:
f first, the persistence of high budgetary imbalances put pressure on interest rates and fueled
inflation, and when combined with a lax monetary stance (as it was the case by the end of the
period), resulted in an unsustainable situation which triggered the currency crisis of last year.
IThe interesting feature, however, was that the high budget deficit did not crowd out private
investment and coexisted with a relatively small current account deficit until 1996. Even
in 1995, when recorded GDP growth was a mere 0.1% due to the drought and real interest
rates were among the highest during the period, the ratio of fixed investment to GDP stood at
24%, its highest level in some 30 years. And it continued to increase to reach 26% in 1996.
This performance was obviously only possible given the high level of private saving. I think
that this message should come out more clearly from the report.
* second, and linked to the above, the increase in saving was not the result of higher real
earnings. On the contrary, real wages fell during the adjustment period and private
consumption decline sharply. The increase in saving was the result of a marked improvement
in company profitability. And this was what allowed private investment to expand while, at
the same time, shielding the current account from the negative effects of the budget deficit in
the face of a lax monetary policy and an appreciating real exchange rate. All this means that
the acceptable overall economic performance experienced over the period 1993-97 (a more or
less constant GDP per capita) conceals in reality a less nice result: an unequal sharing of the
benefits of adjustment. When combined with the fact that social expenditures per capita
decline in real terms, it is clear that the impact in terms of poverty alleviation could only have
been poor. Even in the case when the level of social expenditures seems acceptable and the
priority is improvement in efficiency, the programme has to include some conditions on the
level of public expenditures in basic health and education. This helps keeping the necessary
focus on poverty issues, while, at the same time, for a given level of deficit, obliges the



-.29 -                            Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
government to face choices in terms of reallocation of expenditures towards human capital.
This message comes out strongly enough in the report and is one of the most interesting lessons
to be learned.
4.     Another important lessons which should be drawn, but which is absent from the report,
concerns government commitment to economic reform. The poor performance in terms of
stabilization reflected an obviously weak political commitment to economic change at the highest
level. On the budgetary front, this stance resulted in the absence of sufficient control of
expenditures, particularly salaries. But it also prevented the necessary reallocation of expenditures
from non productive areas, like defense, towards health, education and basic infrastructure. In
1997/98, defense still enjoys a share of expenditures higher than health, even taking into account
external financing under the VOC chapter: 12% against 9.3%. Concerning structural reforms,
poor political commitment also explains the relatively slow progress in privatization. Again, some
conditions on budgetary allocations would have helped focusing attentions on these issues. The
sensitive character of this issue (questionable political commitment) probably explains its absence
from the report, but it should be an important lesson for future operations. Some important
measures showing strong government commitment should be taken up-front, before future
financing is released.
Jose Leandro
Economic Adviser



_ 30 _                         Appendix B
Page l of 3
Paragraph 23 of the Letter of Development Policy
Agricultural Marketing
73.   During the past 18 months, Government has begun a significant reform of the
agricultural pricing and marketing system in order to improve the efficiency of marketing
mechanisms, increase the role of the private sector in marketing and processing activities,
and to increase the volume of production in the sector, especially among small-scale
farmers. Government has recently completed a draft of a comprehensive marketing and
price liberalization strategy. Using this document as a basis, Government will continue
with the program for reforming the agricultural pricing and marketing system, including
the elimination of the marketing monopolies currently held by the four agricultural
parastatals and abolition of price and other controls impeding the participation of the
private sector in agricultural marketing and processing activities.
(i)    Beef. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a)
eliminate the floor on producer and wholesale beef prices sold in domestic
markets; (b) eliminate slaughter quotas at all abattoirs; (c) review present health
standards and regulations to insure that public safety is maintained without reliance
on production quotas; and (d) review export regulations with the objective of
permitting private individuals and firms to export beef and beef products. The
above mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of the
1994/95 marketing year. In addition, the Government will announce the policy
changes effective for the 1994/95 marketing year based on the review of health
standards at abattoirs and export regulations.
(ii)   Dairy. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to:
(a) transfer licensing authority for dairy enterprises from DMB to an appropriate
authority; (b) review the present health standard regulations to ensure minimum
health standards for milk production; (c) continue the policy of allowing milk and
milk products to be unregulated commodities (as per the Government's
announcement of March 31, 1993); (d) allow DMB to continue to purchase milk at
prices that are to DMB's best advantage; and (e) review export regulations with
the objective of permitting private individuals and firms to export dairy products.
The above mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of
the 1994/95 marketing year. In addition, the Government will announce the policy
changes effective for the 1994/95 financial year, based on the review of health
standards and export regulations.
(iii)   Cotton. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to:
(a) abolish the marketing and processing monopoly of the Cotton Marketing Board
and abolish all regulations restricting entry by others into the domestic marketing
and processing of cotton and cotton products, except for those relating to health,
safety and environment; (b) continue to allow producer prices for seed cotton to be



- 31 -                        Appendix B
Page 2 of 3
market determined (as per the Government's announcement of March 31, 1993);
(c) allow all marketing agents including CMB the authority -- subject to complying
with uniform Government quality standards -- to market cotton products
domestically to their best advantage; (d) review export regulations with the
objective of permitting private individuals and firms to export cotton and cotton
products; and (e) maintain the policy of allowing unrestricted cotton lint imports
through the ERS. The above mentioned changes will be made effective no later
than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing season (April 1994). In addition, the
Government will announce the policy changes effective for the 1994/95 marketing
year based on the review of export regulations.
(iv)   Oilseeds. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to:
(a) eliminate price floors on oilseeds and by products and allow GMB to purchase
oilseeds to their best advantage; and (b) review export regulations with the
objective of permitting private individuals and firms to export oilseeds and oilseed
products. The above mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the
beginning of the 1994/95 marketing season (April 1994). In addition, the
Government will announce the policy changes effective for the 1994/95 marketing
year based on the review of export regulations.
(v)   Wheat. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to:
(a) review trade and stocking policy; (b) eliminate all marketing controls on wheat;
(c) allow GMB to announce and, defend a floor for the producer price of wheat;
(d) allow any private sector firm to participate in domestic wheat marketing; and
(e) review export, import, and sitocking policy with the objective of permitting
private individuals and firms to trade of wheat. The above mentioned changes will
be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing season
(April 1994). In addition, the Government will announce the policy changes
effective for the 1994/95 markelting year based on the above mentioned review.
(vi)  Yellow Maize. The Government will announce, by the end of July 1993, policy
changes that will eliminate all price and marketing controls on yellow maize,
thereby allowing market determined prices and any private sector firm to
participate in domestic yellow maize marketing. Government will also review
export regulations, with the objective of permitting private individuals and firms to
export yellow maize. The above mentioned changes will be made effective no later
than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing season (April 1994). In addition, the
Government will announce by December 1994 the policy changes effective for the
1995/96 marketing year based on the review of export regulations.
(vii)  White Maize. The Government will, by the end of July 1993, develop a maize
stocking policy consistent with the Government's security objectives and announce
the first phase of a package of reforms that will: (a) remove the requirement on
farmers to sell white maize off take to the Grain Marketing Board and allow
anyone, except designated large millers, to buy white maize from any domestic



Appendix B
- 32 -                          Page3 of3
source; (b) redefine, zones A and B so that zone A is limited to the operating
premises of specific large-scale commercial millers in natural regions I, II, and III,
and zone B as the rest of the country; (c) allow free and unrestricted movement
and sale of white maize in zone B; (d) allow GMB to defend a floor price for white
maize at selected depots in the country; (e) require GMB to sell at the wholesale
price to all individuals and firms. The above mentioned changes will be made
effective no later than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing season (April 1994).
The second phase of price and market liberalization for white maize will be
implemented at the beginning of the 1995/96 marketing season, and will (a) allow
all white maize and milled products prices to be market determined, but GMB will
continue to defend a floor price at selected depots, (b) permit free and unrestricted
movement and sale of white maize in all areas of the country, i.e. the distinction
between zone A and zone B will be eliminated.



MAP SECTION



MALAWI
ZAMBIA                                     -T
Meeebeke
1 4  itS                        Mczcbukc Chirundu                                           -,._ MCZAMBIQUE
Ham.re                                        ZAMBIA                                      MakMI tUE
NABIA-   ZIMBABWE                                                                    Kariba                                                                                          RUYA u
/           OCSWANA<Gu ,o _ .^ . ~ u e + :_ . ~ X SuuGr                                                               Cente  ry                                        -
BOTSWANA \1                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mhangura         0M.ai 
g .  -.;*-lRaf  goro  t Bindura
26 . f ( ~~~~~~~~KARIBA %</(ooS.  
NAMIBIA    To Mubobezi                                 gCHINHOY                                                                    Banket
-   WAI   RIVToEChoRo                      Bingo                                                         Trolo                                    reh
< \ t ,gX g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Darwele . - <4 
st          a,Fc it R
- 1 \ ~~Falls                                                    }                                                  -=rChegut            0 /
    OTHER AIRORT                                                                                                                   ,p41               0  Nand           k
X  )-9tx'           ~~~~~Dete  .          .uf                                                                             :tKusapet
p \s   \>* Lupane  <|                      }TKwekwe                                                        boud\
INTERNATIONAL BOUND    S                             '        'Redcliff                                 Mvuma                                         dmio   a    a n
\ X S X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GWERU t    Laii :. .nzi'0Q: 
_t X \ , St Chatsworthn0 th                                  do  n
)_NATA R. Tsholotsho                                 \                                    lShurugwi W}tttJ  .
Z1MBABWE                          -,LI                                                                                                                  /    i  n 
-   MABORSTATEROADS                 )     Plumtree                                                                                                          status of any  terrton e
RAIL ROADS                                                            Figtoe                                                                                     to  a    e            1ndiOremn
_    MAJOR RIVERS                            T./t;                                        \                                                Jerera             ,J 
$) NATIONAL CAPITAL                    Focron!V                                          >      0\ S                            WC/ 
*INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT,- ,  G l  X N/)
a OTHER AIRPORTS                                                                                                             P-.E \g\<\ \s  +< r d   
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES ,  C. , 
~-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES--L ,\, \ //
'> . Wf\ ............................v t\ .on this map  do  not
>  22-                                                                                                                                                                            T ., \\,  =     ,  hep   'Iod BankhGIrouap,  co i
(a           KILOMETERS  0          50         100         lS15etrig                                                                            .0,/5                        uo     0 tany jugmn odn thenty lega
tn MILES 0 :50   100                                                                              2^  vJ Pretoria S 32 ,ar acceptance of such t
Lu                                                                                   Praterie           SOIJT1-I AI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RICA~~P          boundaries.                    )



