Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 25479
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
ZIMBA]BWE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2527-ZIM)
February 24, 2003
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit:     Zimbabwe dollar (Z$)
Board approval (June 1993) US$1  =    Z$6.44
Closing (December 1997)        =      Z$16.77
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
EFF                Extended Fund Facility
ERS                Export Retention Scheme
ES                 Evaluation Summary
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESAP               Economic Structural Adjustment Program
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
LSCS               Large Scale Commercial Sector
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PPAR               Project Performance Assessment Report
PTC                Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL                Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA                Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
UDI                Unilateral Declaration of Independence
ZESA               Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZISCO              Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department       Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Senior Manager, Country Evaluation & Regional Relations  Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Task Manager                                            Ms. Poonam Gupta
Peer Reviewer                                           Mr. S. Ramachandran



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
GREGORY K. INGRAM
Director-General
Operations Evaluaton
February 24, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Assessment Report on
Zimbabwe Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2527-ZIM)
Attached is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) on the Zimbabwe Structural Adjustment
Credit II (SAC II). It was an (US$125 million equivalent) IDA credit. It became
effective on December 8, 1993 and closed on December 31, 1997, following a two and a
half years extension. Co-financing for the credit was provided by Germnany (US$28.4
million) and the Netherlands (US$26.3 million).
The SAC II supported the second phase of the Government of Zimbabwe's
Economic and Structural Adjustment Program launched in 1991. In this phase, the
objective was to stimulate a more rapid supply response while continuing efforts to
restore macro-economic stability, improve public sector management and shield the poor
and vulnerable groups from the adverse transitional effects arising from adjustment. The
objectives of the credit were: 1) trade policy reform; 2) agricultural marketing
deregulation; 3) private investment deregulation; 4) transport deregulation; 5)
constraining parastatal losses and 6) maintaining overall macro-economic stability.
The project did not achieve its objectives. The initial supply response from good
progress in implementing components 1) through 4) was not maintained in 1998-2000.
Parastatal losses were not constrained and the central government fiscal deficits remained
high. The failure to lower the budget deficit, resulted in inflation and continued high
interest rates which slowed investment and job creation. The credit failed to shield the
poor from the adverse effects of adjustment; real per capita social expenditures fell, and
there were shortcomings in the design of the Social Development Fund. Extreme poverty
increased from 26 percent in 1990/91 to 35 percent in 1995/96. Outcome is rated highly
unsatisfactory, sustainability is highly unlikely and the institutional development impact
is rated negligible.
The Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. The Bank correctly focused on
stimulating growth, constraining parastatal losses, and on agricultural marketing reforms.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



2
The Export Retention Scheme was designed to provide a strong transitional incentive for
export expansion. But the Bank underestimated government concerns about the impact
of reforms on the distribution of income and assets and on the racial divide inherited at
independence and the risk to stabilization and to private sector confidence posed by the
1992 Land Acquisition Act. It also did not adequately support macroeconomic stability,
and expenditure reform; early analytic work, including a fiscal sustainability exercise was
not undertaken which would have avoided inappropriate sequencing (a reduction in taxes
before rationalizing public expenditures), and would have helped identify expenditure
priorities and options for expenditure rationalization. The social impact of reforms was
not monitored during 1991-96 and the second tranche was disbursed in December 1997
when there was no basis for concluding that the macroeconomic management was sound.
The borrower performance is rated highly unsatisfactory. The borrower showed
little evidence of commitment to maintaining macroeconomic stabilization and after 1997
it abandoned all efforts at reform, reversed many of the price and trade liberalization
measures undertaken earlier in the decade and granted unbudgeted payments to war
veterans. It proceeded to takeover large-scale commercial farms which has destabilized
the economy.
The experience with SAC II provides four lessons. First, given the short-term
necessity of macroeconomic stability, especially achieving fiscal sustainability, the Bank
should have undertaken a public expenditure review prior to 1995, should have been
more forceful in ensuring that credible steps to achieve fiscal sustainability were
incorporated in our adjustment lending and should have formed a judgment not only
about the macroeconomic/fiscal targets, but also about the likelihood of their
implementation. Secondly, the Bank should not have relied so much on commitments
with technocrats in absence of political dialogue and consensus for reforms. Thirdly, the
Bank should release tranches of adjustment loans on the basis of results, rather than
promises. Fourthly, adequate provisions for protecting the poor are paramount in
adjustment operations to a low-income client like Zimbabwe.
d1'7.



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of
lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending
operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those
that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management
have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED
staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing
country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the
information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared intemally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent to
the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed
in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainabiity: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Ratings and Responsibilities .....................i
Preface ..................... iii
1. Background .
2.    Project Objectives and Design                   .2
Project Objectives                        .2
Relevance of Objectives                     .2
Achievement of Objectives                    .6
3. Program Outcomes                              .7
4. Program Impact                               .9
Macroeconomic Stabilization and Growth             .9
The Impact on the Poor .10
Distributional Effects .12
5. Performance Ratings .12
Outcome .12
Institutional Development Impact .13
Bank Performance ...........                                       13
Borrower Performance .14
6. Lessons .15
Boxes in Text:
Box 2.1: Statement of SAC II Objectives            .3
Box 3.1: Benefits from the Removal of Distortions in Maize Marketing  . 8
Tables In Text
Table 4.1: Selected Economic Indicators            .9
Table 4.2: Distribution of Poverty Indexes, 1990/91 and 1995/96 .10



Contents (cont'd.)
Annexes:
A.     Basic Project Data Sheet .......................................                17
B.      Status of Legal Covenants ......................................               19
C.     Para 23 of the Letter of Development Policy .......................................  20
D.     Timeline: Structural Adjustment Project in Zimbabwe ...................................... 22
E.     Zimbabwe: Relations with the Fund .......................................       24
F.     Table 1:   Profits/Losses of the Major Public Enterprises .26
Table 2:   Percentage Distribution of Gross Domestic Product by
Industry, 1990-99 .27
Table 3:   Zimbabwe Agricultural Crop Production, 1990-2000 .28
Table 4:   Employment Growth by Industry, 1991-99 (%) .29
Table 5:   Trends in Real Earnings, 1990-99 (Indices 1980=100) .30
Table 6:   Functional Distribution of Income, 1991-97 (%) .30
G.     List of Persons Interviewed                          ..                         31
This report was prepared as part of the Country Assistance Evaluation of Zimbabwe by Poonam
Gupta (Task Manager). Betty Casely-Hayford and Agnes Santos provided administrative support. An
evaluation mission visited Zimbabwe from March 26 to April 10, 2001. The team comprised Ellen
Goldstein, Jack van Holst Pellekaan, Zahia Khan and Sohail J. Malik. The cooperation of several
government officials, members of academia, NGOs, donors, representatives of industry, commerce,
agriculture and a cross section of the citizens of Zimbabwe are gratefully acknowledged.



Ratings and Responsibilities
Performance Ratings
OED
Evaluation      PPAR
Summary                                  Comments
Outcome                  Marginally      Highly     The objectives of restoring macroeconomic
Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  stability, improving public sector
management and shielding the poor from
the transitional impact of adjustment were
not met. The supply response was not
sustained.
Institutional Development  Modest      Negligible   The loan targeted reforms in the parastatal
Impact                                              sector where results were disappointing.
Sustainability           Uncertain   Highly Unlikely The 1998-2000 period has been one of
macroeconomic destabilization, slippages in
structural reforms and forcible land
acquisition which has destroyed private
sector confidence and the core of efficient
agriculture.
Bank Performance        Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  The Bank correctly focused on liberalizing
the economy, constraining parastatal losses,
and on agricultural marketing reforms. But
it overestimated government ownership of
SAC H reforms, and underestimated the risk
to stabilization and to private sector
confidence posed by disorderly land reforms
and improper sequencing of reforms in the
macro program. Early analytic work to
assist in public expenditure management
was not planned and the social impact of
reforms was not monitored. There was no
basis for concluding that the
macroeconomic management was sound
when the second tranche of SAC II was
released in December 1997.
Borrower Performance   Unsatisfactory    Highly     The borrower did not maintain
Unsatisfactory  macroeconomic stability. After 1997 it
abandoned all efforts at further reform and
reversed many of the reforms it had
implemented under SAC II.
Key Project Responsibilities
Staff                     At Appraisal                    At Compktwn
Task Manager                  Lloyd McKay                      R. van den Brink
Division Chief                Praful C. Patel                  Ataman Aksoy
Country Director              Stephen Denning                 Barbara Kafka






Preface
I    This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit in Zimbabwe. Credit 2527-Zim of two equal tranches in the
total amount of SDR 88.3 million (US$125 million equivalent) was approved on June 29,
1993 and made effective on December 8, 1993. The first tranche was released upon
effectiveness. The second (and final tranche) was released on December 22, 1997. The
credit was closed on December 31, 1997; two and a half years after the original closing
date. Co-financing for the credit was provided by Germany (US$28.4 million) and the
Netherlands (US$26.3 million).
The Macroeconomics 1 Division of the Africa Region in the Bank prepared the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in 1998. The ICR provides a good account of
the structural adjustment program's implementation experience and lessons. The
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) prepared this Project Performance Assessment
Report (PPAR). It reviews the impact of the credit five years after it closed. An OED
mission visited Zimbabwe in March/April 2001 to discuss the overall effectiveness of the
Bank's Assistance Program during the 1990s. The Bank's lending for structural
adjustment received considerable attention during these discussions. The kind
cooperation and valuable assistance of Government, Donors (bi-lateral, and multi-lateral),
Bank Staff, Zimbabwean academics, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO's) and a
cross section of people from different segments of Zimbabwean society is gratefully
acknowledged. The list of persons interviewed is attached as Annex G.
This PPAR downgrades the Evaluation Summary outcome rating from marginally
satisfactory to highly unsatisfactory, institutional development from modest to negligible,
sustainability from uncertain to highly unlikely, borrower performance from
unsatisfactory to highly unsatisfactory and Bank performance from satisfactory to
unsatisfactory.
The PPAR was sent to the borrower for comments. No comments were received.



Al



1.    Background
1.1   Prior to the 1965 Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI), Southern
Rhodesia operated as an open economy. During those years, the economy experienced
high overall growth, massive government investment in electric power, rail and road
transport, and a large infusion of foreign capital. The economy was, however, highly
dualistic. The Land Apportionment Act of 1930 reserved 30 percent of agricultural land
for 1.1 million Africans living in mostly low fertility Native Reserves and 51 percent
(high fertility land) for 50,000 white settlers (roughly 5 percent of the population at that
time); the remaining 19 percent was unassigned land anId forest areas. The white
minority also dominated the relatively well-developed industrial and commercial sectors.
1.2   The UDI in 1965 provoked international sanctions which prompted the
Government to switch towards greater reliance on import-substituting industrialization
policies. After a period of relative prosperity between 1965 and 1974, sanctions,
shortcomings of these policies, and civil war between 1973-1980 caused growth to
slump. The war culminated in the creation of Zimbabwe on April 18,1980.
1.3   In order to redress inequities, the new Government intensified the direct controls
inherited at independence and increased expenditures. Controls on the allocation of
foreign exchange and price determination were extended to cover the labor market;
minimum wages were introduced, and increased sharply in the early 1980s. To prevent
lay offs, regulations were introduced with severe restrictions upon firing. Expenditures
on health and education were increased and by 1990, many social indicators were
significantly better than in 1980 and in Sub-Saharan Africa.
1.4   But problems emerged. The government deficit rose to 10 percent of GDP. This
was financed partly through high tax revenues (36 percent of GDP), with the remaining
financed by domestic borrowing at negative real interest rates. Controls slowed
economic growth and raised unemployment to more than 20 percent in 1989.
1.5   Thus, the Government came to regard economic policy change as necessary and
launched the Economic and Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP) covering 1991
through 1995. The program, unlike in many African countries, was initiated not by a
crisis but by a recognition that conditions for more rapid growth were needed.
1.6   The Bank supported the ESAP with two structural adjustment loans starting in
1991. The first involved US$175 million equivalent (an IBRD loan of US$125 million
and an IDA credit of US$50 million equivalent) and was complemented by other donor
financing. IMF's support under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of SDR 114.60 million
was approved on 9/11/1992.1 The first SAIJSAC had four main components: 1) fiscal
and public enterprise deficit reduction coupled with prudent monetary policy; 2) trade
and exchange rate liberalization; 3) domestic de-regulation; and 4) measures to alleviate
the adverse impact of reforms on vulnerable groups. The SAC II emphasized these same
components in addition to agricultural marketing reforms and transport deregulation
(para 2.1).
'Relations with the IMF are summarized in Annex E.



2
1.7   There was noticeable progress in components 2) and 3) but not in the other
components.2 The decrease in government revenues due to a reductions in the direct and
corporate tax rate introduced to foster private sector economic activity were not offset by
increased incomes and receipts from sales tax. Inability to reform the parastatal sector
led to mounting parastatal losses. The 1992 drought, characterized as the worst drought
of this century also increased government expenditures and contributed to declining
revenues, further exacerbating the fiscal situation. The Bank approved its second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) on June 29, 1993, based on significant real
reductions in non-drought related expenditures including reductions in the size of the
civil service and substantial increases in the consumer tariff for utility services.3 The
credit was expected to fully disburse by June 1995.
2.    Project Objectives and Design
Project Objectives
2.1   The SAC 11 supported the second phase of the Govemment's ESAP. In this
phase, the objective was to stimulate a more rapid supply response while continuing to
restore macro-economic stability, improve public sector management and shield the poor
and vulnerable groups from the adverse transitional effects arising from adjustment. The
credit emphasized: 1) trade policy reform; 2) agricultural marketing deregulation; 3)
private investment deregulation; 4) transport deregulation; 5) constraining parastatal
losses and 6) maintaining overall macro-economic stability (Box 2.1).
2.2   The SAC II was for US$125 million on IDA terms. This amount was based on an
overall external financing plan worked out with the Government and IMF for 1993 and
1994. The large allocation of IDA resources was due to Zimbabwe's financial assistance
requirements as a result of the drought and the deterioration in its debt servicing capacity
and per capita GDP. The credit was to be disbursed in two equal tranches-the first upon
effectiveness and the second upon completion of a set of further conditions. The specific
actions included as the conditions for effectiveness and the release of the second tranche
are summarized in Box 2.1.
Relevance of Objectives
2.3   The objectives of SAC I were relevant in many respects. Liberalizing the
economy, improving public sector management were important as was support for
liberalizing trade and exchange rate policies, deregulating agricultural marketing,
removing restrictions on small transport and improving the operational efficiency of
parastatals. Agricultural marketing reforms which addressed elimination of the
requirement that farmers sell their maize to the Grain Marketing Board, removal of all
geographic restrictions on the transport of maize within Zimbabwe, and a change in the
marketing arrangements for beef, dairy products, oilseeds and cotton, were needed for
increasing agricultural growth.
2PPAR of SAC I.
3 Zimbabwe became tDA eligible in 1992.



3
Box 2.1: Statement of SAC II Objectdves
I.         ConditCion of Second Tranche
Objedive        Path to Achievement      Conditon of Effectiveness           Rekase
Trade Policy  Progressively move to      Improve efficiency of Export  Increase percentage of own export
Reforms:     unified market based        Retention Scheme (ERS) market earnings retained under the ERS
ntinue to  foreign exchange system;    by moving to system of holding from 50 to 60 percent
iberalize the  and an import regime based on  export retentions in foreign
rade regime  modest tariff-based protection by exchange or by allowing
1995.                       importers to hold ERS
entitlement passbooks and
permitting trade in actual ERS
entitlement.
eregulate   Free from sanctioning all   Automatic and
vrivate     investments not asking for an  unrestricted remittance of after
investment   allocation of foreign exchange and tax dividends accruing: on
steps to encourage foreign  foreign investment provided
investment.                 such dividends were remitted
through ERS market.
regulate   Changed certain restrictive                            Submit draft bill to parliament
road         provisions of motor transportation                    removing route and commodity
ransportation act                                                   specific licensing for goods transpon
detrimental to emergence of                            and focusing licensing regulations to
small-scale transport enterprises.                     vehicle roadworthiness, traffic safety
and insurance coverage.
Continue to  Remove marketing Board's    Announce the specific      Implement the specific measures.
deregulate   monopoly and remaining      detailed measures set      (Annex C).
agricultural  price controls on maize, cotton,  forth in Para 23 of
marketing    dairy, meats, oilseeds, and wheat. Letter of Development Policy
(Annex C).
mprove the   Efficiency enhancements in four Introduce an operating  1) Finalize restructuringt efficiency
operational  parastatals.               framework; including ,      studies for Air Zimbabwe and Posts
efficiency of                            performance contract for   and Telecommunications
4blic sector                             Zimbabwe Electric Supply   Corporation (PTC); introduce
nterprises.                              Authority (ZESA) acceptable to operating frameworks with
IDA.                       performance contracts for both by
January 1, 1994 and 2) prepare a
plan to improve the financial
performance and efficiency of
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company
(ZISCO).
esign and   Assist the vulnerable through the
i fplement  Social Development Fund (SDF)
rogiwns to  which has received funding from
ifize the  the Government and the African
eponomk costs Development Bank. Continue
of adjustment public works programs. Restore
per capita real expenditures in
health and education in the
FY93/94 budget to the levels that
prevailed in FY91/92.
Macro-       Maintain sound and sustainable  Present to parliament
economkc     macro-economic management in (at end July 1993) a
7ngement: the context of the ongoing IMF  budget for fiscal 1993-94 with a
progranL                    deficit of less than 6 percent)
Source: The President's Report of Structural Adjustment Credit 11 (Repont No. P6085-Zim. June 4, 1993).



4
2.4    The SAC II emphasis on the export retention scheme (ERS) designed to provide a strong
transitional incentive for export expansion was essential for success in terms of external balance,
employment expansion, growth and poverty reduction, and was necessary to minimize the initial
negative consequence of a conventional simple liberalization.4
2.5    However, the SAC II did not have explicit poverty reduction objectives. The Bank did
not believe at that time that poverty was a major problem in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe's Central
Statistical Office (CSO) had estimated the incidence of poverty at 53 percent for 1990/91 on a
per capita basis, but Bank staff were of the view that the survey contained methodological
shortcomings that affected the validity of the estimates. The 1991 Agricultural Sector
Memorandum, apart from mentioning more equitable distribution of assets and food insecurity,
made no reference to poverty in rural areas. The 1995 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM)
was labeled as a poverty assessment but it was a slim poverty profile with no proposed action
plan or strategy for reducing poverty. It estimated the incidence of poverty in 1990/91 at 25
percent, less than half for most African countries.5
2.6    The strategy supported by SAC II was, therefore, to create a supply response, generate
more rapid employment growth, restore real per capita spending on social services to 1990/91
levels and minimize the transitional adverse impact of adjustment on the poor through a Social
Development Fund (SDF) financed by the govemment and the African Development Bank.
However, there was no explicit provision in SAC II or in the Bank's strategy for adequate
funding and monitoring of the implementation of the SDF.
2.7    The macro reform program had design flaws which made it difficult to maintain a sound
and sustainable macroeconomic management under the SAC I implementation period (June
1993-June 1995) envisaged in the President's Report. The fiscal aspect of the macro program as
designed in 1991 had three elements: (i) a reduction in the fiscal deficit; (ii) a reduction in
explicit taxation rates; and (iii) a deregulation of interest rates. 6 A reduction in tax rates and the
deregulation of interest rates sequenced to come before rather than after expenditure reductions
from parastatal reform and public employment reductions turned out to be fiscally very costly
and led to a domestic debt trap. Borrowing to finance high deficits in the context of financial
sector liberalization led to a rapidly increasing debt burden that squeezed real public spending for
social services.
2.8    The design of SAC II was weak in other respects. Conditionality on the major parastatal,
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company required only the preparation of a plan to improve its
efficiency. Performance contracts were required to be introduced for the Post and Telegraph
Company and Zimbabwe Electric Supply Authority (ZESA), but such contracts in state-owned
public enterprises have led to disappointing results because they do not address the structural
problems of the enterprises and because of the difficulty in demarcating responsibilities between
4 Under the ERS, exporters were to be allowed to retain an increasing proportion of their foreign exchange earnings and trade
their ERS entitlements in the open market.
5 Even the Country Assistance Strategy, May 1 1997, Report No. 16541-Zim. stated that 'Poverty is not as prevalent as in mnany
other Sub-Saharan countries, but is likely to have increased in 1990-95.
6 See the IMF Extemal Review of the ESAF, 1998. According to this review, liberalization (financial and tax reduction) should
have been phased in after expenditure reductions from parastatal reform and public employment reductions.



5
owner and manager.7 SAC II also did not include a conditionality on institution strengthening
related to public expenditure management in large part because the Public Expenditure and
Management Review (PER) was completed in end 1995, too late to inform the design of SACH.
In addition, the SAC II made no mention of the risk to stabilization and to private sector
confidence posed by the 1992 Land Acquisition Act which had broadened the Government's
power for compulsory land acquisition and increased the risk of expropriation. This risk
eventually materialized. The Government announced in 1995 its decision to acquire 5 million
hectares of land. By November 1997 it had targeted 1,471 commercial farms for compulsory
acquisition, and in June 2000, the takeover of large-scale commercial farms commenced.
2.9     The SAC II appropriately supported the recommendations of the 1991 Agriculture Sector
Memorandum on agricultural marketing reform. However,l the SAC II could have also included
easing the regulations for subdivision of land, given the importance of land policy for equitable
growth, poverty reduction and political stability, and the ermphasis placed on it by the
memorandum and earlier analytical work in the 1980s.8 Easier subdivision might have
encouraged the Large Scale Commercial Sector (LSCS) to bring more land onto the land market,
and might have allowed the Government to resettle more poor landless farmers.
2.10 A final issue is that the Bank overestimated client ownership on SAC II reform areas. The
FY94 CAS, for example, stressed the "convergence of views" on economic reform,
characterizing differences on the major reform issues in SAJC II, such as, greater deregulation of
the investment environment, deeper structural reform in agrliculture, a reduction of fiscal deficits,
and reform of parastatals, as "differences in emphasis." In fact they reflected fundamentally
different approaches to issues. For instance, the Bank and some senior technocrats saw
liberalization (investment deregulation, trade) in SAC II as necessary to spur growth, but the
President and senior members of his party were more concemed about redistributing wealth, and
remained unconvinced that liberalization would achieve this objective. Also, the Bank, and
senior staff in the economic ministries, saw parastatal reform in SAC II as a means of increasing
the efficiency of the public sector and reducing bank financing. For the President and his party,
however, parastatals met important social objectives.
2.11    Of great significance was a deep suspicion within the party leadership that the Bank's
major shareholders dictated what the Bank could and couldl, not do. Had the Bank analyzed the
extent of country ownership of reforms, based on the degree of consensus among
decisionmakers, the locus of policy initiatives (whether local or external), the existence of up-
front actions, and the participation of major stakeholders, it would have realized that ownership
of SAC II reforms was weak, and narrowly based on commitments provided by a small circle of
7 Bureaucrats in Business; The &onomics and Politics of Govermnent Ownership. A World Bank Policy Research Report.
1995. The report finds a lack of clear link between performance contract and improved efficiency and productivity. It
recommends using perfonnance contracts sparingly and only when govemment shows a clear commitment to following through
on its promises. These were also the lessons in OED's 1992 project performance audit report on Mexico's, Public Enterprise
Loan and have been reconfirmed in the draft Private Sector Development in the Electric Power Sector. A Joint
OEDIOEG/OEU Review of the World Bank Group's Assistance in the 1990s,"December 23, 2002.
8 At the end of the 1980s, ownership of good quality land had remained with a few thousand large scale commercial farms
(LSCS). About 56 percent of LSCS land was in Natural Regions 1, II, and HI, the areas of highest agricultural potential. In
contrast, 25.8 percent of CA land was found in these regions. The LSCS consisted of 4,660 farms while 1,020,400 households
resided in communal areas. The Memorandum found that "the persistence of land concentration owes a good deal to the
limitations which have been placed upon its marketability through restrictions on subdivision. The same applies to
underutilization" (pg. 86).



6
technocrats. Ultimately, the reforms under SAC II were not sustained because power lay, not
with individual ministries and technocrats with whom the Bank dialogued but with the political
party whose trust the Bank was unable to gain.
Achievement of Objectives
2.12 The second tranche could not be released as scheduled in mid-1995. While second
tranche conditions relating to trade policy reform, deregulation of transportation and agricultural
marketing and parastatal reform had been met, the overall central government fiscal deficit,
excluding grants, for 1994/95 had risen to 12.5 percent of GDP from the previous year's level of
7.6 percent and the IMF program went off track in 1995.9 The Bank assisted the Govemment in
a useful PER, which was completed in late 1995. The Government implemented the PER
recommendations, reducing the actual fiscal deficit for 1996/97 to 7.6 percent of GDP.
However, just before the second tranche was to be disbursed in August 1997, the Govemment
approved an unbudgeted compensation package for war veterans equivalent to 2.6 percent of
GDP. Shortly thereafter in November 1997, the Government announced an accelerated land
reform program, targeting 5 million hectares (about half of commercial farming sector) for
compulsory acquisition.
2.13 The Bank released the SAC H second tranche in December 1997, based on written
governmental assurances "that the implementation of these new policies would be handled in a
manner that did not jeopardize achievement of the agreed 1997/98 fiscal targets nor the intention
to further reduce the fiscal deficit in subsequent years" and an IMF "comfort letter." 10 In
December 1997 the Government announced a package of tax and expenditure measures to
reduce the deficit. It also provided assurances that the land acquisition program would be carried
out in a transparent manner, in accordance with the law. The second tranche of US$62.5 million
was released on December 22, 1997-two and a half years after the original loan closing date.
2.14 The Bank should not have released the tranche based on government promises. An
assessment of the macroeconomic situation would have confirmed that while there appears to
have been a reduction in the central government deficit for the fiscal year 1997/98 to 6.6
percent, parastatal losses amounting to 7.4 percent of GDP in that year meant that the overall
public sector deficit (central and parastatal) for 1997/98 was about 14 percent of GDP. It is also
important to note that data on the budget deficit for the period immediately prior to the tranche
release vary considerably, but it is clear that the sustainability of the reduction in the overall
budget deficit into the future period was unlikely."1 Concerns about the Government's
accelerated land acquisition program, and lax monetary policy reform program had led to intense
selling pressure on the Zimbabwe dollar. Just before, and during, second tranche disbursement,
the Zimbabwe dollar depreciated, by 15 percent during the second half of November 1997, and
9 In 1992 the IMF approved parallel arrangements under the Extended Fund Facility and the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility. The arrangements expired in September 1995. Total revenues fell short of expectations, declining by 2.3 percent of
GDP between 1993/94 and 1994J95. Mechanisms for expenditure control proved ineffective; total expenditures increased by 2.5
percent because of rising interest payments on domestic debt and transfers. A new PIF Stand-By Arrangement was approved in
June 1998 following the disbursement of the Bank's second trance in December 1997.
20 See Implenentation Completion Report (ICR) of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit.
I Estimates for the central govermment fiscal deficit, excluding grants, for the calendar year 1997 were 8.8 percent (IMF Staff
Report for the 1999 Article IV Consultation). For the 18-month period July 1997-December 1998, the deficit was 6.6 percent
(IMF Zimbabwe-Statistical Appendix, April 1999).



7
by another 30 percent in December. Also in December 1997, the Reserve Bank eliminated
"temporarily" the right of corporations to maintain foreign icurrency accounts. By the end of the
year, gross reserves had declined to 0.8 month of imports, and inflation had accelerated.
2.15 The economic and govemance situation since 1998 has steadily deteriorated. IMF's first
review of the Stand-By Arrangement (approved in June 1998) was held between August 1998
and February 1999, however, the review could not be completed.12 At the time of the review, the
1998/99 central govemment budget deficit was estimated to be 11.5 percent. In 2000, the central
govemment fiscal deficit (excluding grants) rose to 22.5 pe,rcent led by large, unbudgeted
increases in civil service wages, defense spending. In July12000, a newly-elected govemment
proceeded to take over large-scale commercial farms under the Fast Track land reform program
involving the compulsory acquisition of 5 million hectares of commercial farm land. One year
later in July 2001, the Govemment increased the amount to be resettled from 5 million hectares
to 8.3 million hectares, or almost 77 percent of the land area with large-scale commercial
farming. And in November 2001, the fast-track program was accelerated to allow the
Govemment to assume immediate ownership of land targeted for acquisition; current owners
were instructed to vacate farms within three months.
3. Program Outcomes'3
3.1    There were successes in trade, foreign exchange liberalization, and investment
deregulation. On July 3, 1994 the exchange rates were unified, and allowed to float.'4 By 1995,
the private sector had full authority to maintain and use foreign currency accounts. Under the
ERS, where exporters were to be allowed to retain an increIasing proportion of their foreign
exchange earnings and trade their ERS entitlements in the open market, the retention rate was
increased to 100 percent, above and beyond the second tranche release condition of 60 percent.
The utilization of retained foreign exchange was expanded to allow the importation of any good
or services, and to be traded in the domestic market. Restrictions on licensing and repatriation of
profits by foreign investors were eased. By 1996, quantitative restrictions on imports that were
in effect during the 1980s were largely dismantled and replaced by tariffs. But the positive
effects of economic liberalization and deregulation of investment on private sector development
in the SACs was counteracted by inappropriate sequencing of fiscal reforms in the
macroeconomic program. Financial liberalization and tax reductions before reductions in
expenditures led to an increase in government deficits, and high real interest rates which stifled
private investment.
3.2    Agricultural marketing reforms were also implemented. The Grain Marketing Board's
(GMB) monopoly in maize marketing was removed in 1996, but was re-instituted in June 2001.
The GMB has also continued to manage the Strategic Grain Reserve with substantial cost. This
together with poor management have been important factors underlying the GMB's poor
12 IMF Staff Report for the 1999 Article IV Consultation. The first program review under the arrangement was scheduled to have
been completed by end-November 1998.
3 The ICR of the second stmctural adjustment loan provides a detailed assessment of the achievement of objectives.
14 With a sharp depreciation of the Zimbabwean currency in end 1997 and 1998, the Government pegged the exchange rate in
January 1999 to the US dollar. In August 2000, the RBZ introduced a crawling peg with a band of S percent of each side of the
central parity, as well as periodic devaluations based on inflation differentials with trading partners.



8
financial performance. The State Cotton Company and the Dairy Marketing Board were
demonopolized and privatized in 1997. Oilseeds marketing and livestock sectors were
liberalized.
3.3    The liberalization in agriculture and food marketing had direct benefits for the poor,
through increased employment opportunities and reductions in the price of basic foods, such as
maize meal (Box 3.1). Production of maize and cotton on communal farms increased (Annex F,
Table 1), but, as explained later, agricultural growth was not broad based enough to arrest an
increase in poverty during the nineties.
Box 3.1: Benefits from the Removal of Distortions In Maize Marketing
Before the removal of market distortions in Zimbabwe, urban maize milling was dominated by large, registered
(government supplied) millers, using roller mills. These mills produced fine maize meal with very high profit
margins. Controls on the inter-regional movement of grain products gave the urban millers a defacto monopoly in
the maize meal trade. Rural hammer mnills which produced coarse maize meal (whole meal) at much lower prices,
were usually unable to obtain maize because of the controls on inter-regional movement of grain products. Hence,
they were restricted in terms of production volume, and were also unable to sell in the urban market. Removal of
the preferences for urban millers and removal of controls on the movement of grain products forced the urban
millers to reduce their prices in the face of competition from the rural hammer mills, which now found a ready
market for their coarser maize meal among poor consumers.
Source: Background paper entitled Zimbabwe Country Assistance Evaluation Agricultural Development and Poverty
Reduction." (March 2002)
3.4    Deregulation of the transport sector was also successful. Small-scale trucking
companies and commuter transport expanded, raising the share of the sector in GDP from around
5.5 percent prior to SAC II to 8 percent post SAC II . Transport sector reforms drove down costs
and facilitated the transportation of produce across regions. Partial liberalization of air transport
attracted new airline services and supported the rapid expansion of horticultural exports. The
value-added in the transport sector grew at an average 13 percent per annum between 1994-97.
However, from 1998-2000, the average yearly rate of contraction was -1.3 percent.
3.5    On parastatal reform, a reduction in losses proved to be short-lived The combined
operating losses of nine major public enterprises declined initially from about 3 percent of GDP
in 1993/94 to 1.1 percent of GDP in 1995/96. However, by 2000, they were 3.5 percent of GDP
(Annex F, Table 2). Continuing losses incurred by parastatals has directed bank credit away from
the private sector.,5
3.6    Of the parastatals explicitly targeted in SAC II second tranche condition, financial
information on ZESA and PTC is unavailable in Bank documents until 1997/98, but in 2000,
losses were Z$3 billion for ZESA and Z$3.2 billion for PTC. Losses incurred by ZISCO
continued to increase and by 2000 they were almost Z$2.7 billion. Air Zimbabwe was showing
profits at the start of SAC II but was loosing Z$100 million in 2000. The Grain Marketing Board
moved from a surplus in 1995/96 to a loss of Z$3.3 billion in 2000.
IS Claims by public enterprises on banks increased from Z$879 million in 1994 to Z$7,360 in 2000.



9
4. Program Impact
Macroeconomic Stabilization and Growth
4.1    Macroeconomic stabilization was not achieved (Table 4.1). The central government
deficits (excluding grants) averaged 8.8 percent in 1993/94-97/98, 10.3 percent in 1999 and 22.9
percent in 2000. A lack of progress in controlling fiscal deficits resulted in high inflation, which
remained at 21 percent in 1994-97, rising to 46.6 percent in 1998 and 55 percent in 1999-2000.
4.2    Budgetary interest payments rose from only 4.5 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 6 percent
of GDP in 1993/94 and to 9.2 percent in 1997/98. In 1999/2000, interest payments rose further
to 15 percent of GDP. Zimbabwe was caught in a domestic Idebt trap, whereby the government
had to borrow heavily, just to finance interest payments. This borrowing absorbed substantial
private savings (around 8 percent of GDP per annum) and kept real interest rates high.'6 To
reduce the cost of high interest rates to exporters, the Government allowed offshore borrowing
by firms and banks. But this measure led to rapid monetary expansion and persistent inflation.
The overall consequence of high interest rates and high inflation was the appreciation of the real
exchange rate.
Table 4.1: Selected Economic Indicators
Indicator                                        1991-93  1994-97   1998   1999    2000
Real GDP Growth per annum                         -0.7      4.7      2.5   -0.2    -4.9
Agricultural Growth per annum                      1.6      5.5      4.9    3.5     2.5
Gross Fixed Capital (% of GDP)                    22.2      20.6     17.6   10.0    --
Real Growth of US$ export value per annum         -2.4      11.1    -20.6  -0.1     --
Centtal Govt. Budget Balance, excl. grants (% of GDP)a  -8.2  -8.8  -4.7   -10.3   -22.9
Major parastatal losses/GDP (%)                   -2.1      -2.2     -7.5  -3.4    -3.5
Commercial Bank lending rates (weighted av.)      33.3      34.7    49.2    66     69.2
Average annual inflation (CPI end of period)       32        21      47     57      86
Current Account/GDP(percent) Excl. official transfers  -7.8  -5.5    -5.6   0.5    -1.4
Source: SIMA Database and IMF reports.
Note: Budget balance and interest payments are based on fiscal years. The budget balance numbers for 1998, 1999 and 2000
are on annual basis.
4.3    During 1994-97 (between SAC HI effectiveness in December 1993 and closing in
December 1997), growth was 4.7 percent per annum, about 2.1 percent in per capita terms.
Commercial agriculture and private sector services, particularly tourism and transport,
responded well to liberalization. Agriculture grew at an average rate of 5.5 percent per annum in
this period because of a substantial reduction in controls on and involvement in agricultural
production and marketing; the manufacturing sector grew only at 1.8 percent as inefficient firms
were weeded out. Trade and exchange rate reforms improved overall firm profitability, fueled an
increase in domestic and foreign investment, and resulted in more rapid export growth (an
average rate of 11 percent per annum in 1994-97). The good export performance was mainly
driven by agriculture, and to a lesser extent by mining. Manufacturing exports did not show any
improvement.
16 Comrercial bank lending rtes (weighted average) increased from 35.4 percent in 1994 to 69 percent in July 2000.



10
4.4    Mounting fiscal imbalances, farm invasions and uncertainties in government's economic
policy took their toll on the economy in 1998-2000. GDP per capita growth was -6.8 percent in
2000 and -10.3 percent in 2001.
The Impact on the Poor
4.5    The 1998 analysis of the 1995/96 CSO survey showed that the overall prevalence of
extreme poverty between 1990/91 and 1995/6 increased from 26 to 35 percent.
4.6    This is not surprising since during 1991-97, output growth of 2.4 percent per annum, fell
below the population growth , which averaged 2.6 percent per annum. Moreover, the devastating
drought of 1992 (as well as the less severe drought of 1995) destroyed rural assets such as
livestock and dramatically reduced maize yields.
Table 4.2: Zimbabwe: Distribution of Poverty Indexes, 1990/91 and 1995/96a
Poverty Measure                   1990/91                       1995/96
All Zimbabwe
Prevalence (%)                        25.8                           34.9
Depth                                   8.8                          11.8
Severity                               4.2                            5.4
All rural areas
Prevalence (%)                         35.8                          48.0
Depth                                  12.4                          16.6
Severity                                5.9                           7.7
All urban areas
Prevalence (%)                          3.4                           7.9
Depth                                   0.8                           1.9
Severity                                0.3                           0.7
Source: Alwang, Mills and Taruvinga, World Bank 2002.
a. The estimate is based on a poverty line created by measuring the cost of a minimum-needs basket of food and is on adult
equivalent basis which adjusts for famnily composition.
4.7    Agricultural growth of 3.8 percent per annum in 1991-97 was also not high enough to
reduce rural poverty. A sustained broad based growth of higher than 6 percent per annum was
required before the incidence of poverty in rural areas could decline because the changes in
poverty in relation to growth (growth elasticity) in rural areas was very low. However, broad-
based growth of 6 percent per annum could not have been achieved just with agricultural
marketing reforms targeted in SAC U. The skewed distribution of land needed to be resolved.
As of 1988, the large-scale commercial sector (LSCS), numbering about 4,660 farms, controlled
29 percent of the nation's land area, located mainly in the areas of highest agricultural potential.
More than 1,000,000 families remained in the overcrowded communal areas on 42 percent of the
land area, located mainly in areas of poor agricultural potential.'7 The vulnerability of the
communal sector to droughts, and a lack of public sector extension services, credit facilities,
distribution of fertilizer and other agricultural inputs also needed to be addressed.
17 According to the 1999 draft poverty assessment, even controlling for land quality, the poor in communal areas were
distinguished by high dependency and small holdings per household member.



4.8     The SAC 11 was intended to generate higher employment which did not happen.'8
Despite significant structural reforms (including labor market deregulation), high real interest
rates, downsizing in the public sector and political uncertainty all combined to slow investment
and job creation. As a consequence, official data indicate that formal sector employment has
been essentially flat since 1991 with formal unemployment' estimated at 25 percent in 1998. A
decline in remittances from urban areas (a major source of income for the poor in rural areas)
also increased rural poverty.
4.9     The social impact of adjustment was not well heeded in SAC II. While problems with
the implementation of the SDF established in 1991, had become apparent in 1992, the SAC H
made no provision for safety nets. The Bank's investment portfolio also did not directly support
social protection. '9 A cumbersome means testing programnin the SDF created confusion about
the definition of the targeted groups, and insufficient resources ensured that large numbers of
eligible households were unable to get the benefits intended for them. Furthermore, the SAC II
recommendation to increase the use of public works programs was not implemented. 20 In
1994-too late to impact on the design of SAC I and II--a broader social safety net concept was
introduced as an element of the Government's Poverty Alleviation Action Plan, and an IDA
credit for a Community Action Program, was approved in May 1998.
4.10 The expectation in SAC II that real per capita recurrent expenditures by government on
health and education in the 1993/94 budget would be restored to the levels that prevailed in
199i/92 was not met. During the SAC II period, real expenditures on health and education
declined (even though the non-interest budget share of these two sectors increased). By 1996/97
they were still 10 percent and 3 percent lower in real termsl respectively, than those in 1990/91.
The reduction was mainly brought about by a decline in real staff wages and non-wage
expenditures. The overall number of teachers and health workers changed little.2' A decline in
real wages and non-wage expenditures increased staff shortages in health clinics and reduced
drug availability. These factors, together with the HIV epidemic which now affects almost a
third of the adult population, have reduced life expectancy'from 56 years in 1990 to 40 years in
2000. Gains in infant mortality achieved in the 1980s have largely been eroded.
4.11    Poverty has likely increased since 1996 for several reasons. First, both GDP per capita
and GNI per capita have on average declined-since 1996 by 2.2 and 3.4 percent respectively.22
The decline has been particularly marked since 1999. Second, there have been considerable
increases in the prices of food and other consumer goods such that inflation was 60 and
Is Jeffrey Alwang, and Bradford Mills. Why has Poverty Increased in Zimbabwe? Unpublished mimeo, March 2001, page 17.
This recent work confirms eadier conclusions tha.  While the Zimbabwean government has made successful investments in
human resources in the past, it has had less success in improving the sources of livelihood for most of the poor." Understanding
Poverty and Human Resources in Zimbabwe: Changes in the 1990s and Directionsfor the Future, A Discussion Paper, Human
Development Group, Eastem and Southern Africa, The World Bank, December 1996.
19 The SDF was designed to protect the poor from the impact of ptice liberalization (e.g.. maize), school tuition fees, improved
collection of charges for health care services, and reductions in civil service employment. The African Development Bank
povided direct support, which was linked to the policy-based operations supported by IDA.
ICR for SAC 11.
21 Implementation Completion Report of Second Structural Adjustment Credit, June 1998 and the May 1, 1997 CAS.
22 The trends in GDP per capita in 1995 prices and GNI per capita in 1993 PPP track each other closely, particularly from 1996.
The Atlas method for calculating the trend in GNI per capita shows a substantially greater decline compared with the PPP method
because inflation has been high, and exchange rates have not been market-determined but administratively adjusted from time to
time.



12
85 percent in 1999 and 2000 respectively. Third the misery of the poor has been reinforced by a
substantial shortfall in maize production in 2002. Finally, the fiscal crisis has led to a
devastating reduction in access and the quality of social services at a time when they are badly
needed..
Distributional Effects
4.12 Policy changes under the SACs helped trigger a massive redistribution of income from
formal sector wage earners to farmers. Formal sector employment in manufacturing and public
administration declined and real wages fell. Meanwhile, agriculture benefited initially from
exchange rate adjustment, the removal of price controls and the elimination of marketing board
monopolies.
4.13  Within agriculture, however, skewed distribution of resources meant that the LSCS
consisting of a few thousand commercial farms were the major beneficiaries of reforms. The
liberalization of the exchange rate regime provided the LSCS opportunities not only for
enhanced access to foreign exchange but also improved access to short-term external capital.
Commercial farmers were able to respond quickly to agricultural marketing reforms because of
their location in regions of high agricultural potential, and their higher initial stock of farm
investments. Tobacco (the single most important crop in the commercial farm sector) and
horticultural production accounted for the whole of the increase in value of agricultural exports.
On the other hand, wage paid employment, important for alleviating poverty in the rural areas
showed little or no improvement because of the capital intensive nature of these farms.
4.14 Thus, overall inequality remained high, with an estimated Gini coefficient of 0.63 in
1995/96. This undermined support for the program, because the country was trying to overcome
its legacy of a highly dualistic economic structure and segregated past.
5.    Performance Ratings
Outcome
5.1   Outcome ratings are based on relevance and efficacy. The loan's objectives of
stimulating a more rapid supply response while continuing to restore macro-economic stability,
improve public sector management and shield the poor and vulnerable groups from the adverse
transitional effects arising from adjustment were relevant. However, financial liberalization and
tax reductions before the implementation of deficit reduction measures in 1991-92 made it
difficult to restore macroeconomic stability in the SAC II implementation period. Parastatal
reform conditionality was weak. There was no explicit provision in SAC II for adequate funding
and monitoring of the implementation of the Social Development Fund that had been established
to mitigate the negative impact on the poor and the vulnerable. The SAC II also did not include
conditions for easing the regulations on subdivision of land, which might have had a positive
impact on land markets, thereby easing some pressure for land reform. In terms of efficacy, the
SACH objectives of restoring macroeconomic stability, improving public sector management
and shielding the poor from the transitional impact of adjustment were not met. The initial



13
supply response was not sustained after 1997. The outcome of SAC II is rated highly
unsatisfactory.
5.2   The 1998-2000 period has been one of macroeconomic destabilization and slippages in
structural reforms, reflected in aborted attempts to implem Int IMF Stand-by arrangements in
1998 and 1999, and failure to move ahead with a third struIctural adjustment credit. This
unfavorable situation stems in part from a political response to social discontent over rising
poverty, limited employment opportunities for a relatively jwell-educated workforce and
persistent dualism and high inequality in the distribution of assets. Controversial and unexpected
policy decisions (e.g., civil service wage increases, land redistribution) have increased fiscal
deficits, fueled inflation, destroyed investor confidence and disrupted official capital flows. The
ensuing crisis has led to policy reversals in areas such as exchange rate management, foreign
exchange restrictions, trade barriers and interest rate caps. AInitial restrictions have been eased,
but not eliminated. The sustainability of the net benefits, having been severely compromised, is
rated as highly unlikely.
Institutional Development Impact
5.3   The loan did not aim to strengthen civil service management, domestic debt management,
governance, financial accountability or budgetary systems! domestic capacities to monitor and
evaluate, or legal and regulatory frameworks for private se,ctor development. It did facilitate
agricultural marketing reforms and temporary trade liberalization through the ERS but negligible
progress was achieved in the crucial area of parastatal reform targeted by SAC II. Overall,
institutional development is rated negligible.
Bank Performance
5.4   The Bank correctly identified the need to liberalize' the economy and to reduce fiscal
deficits. The SAC II building on SAC I appropriately supported the gradual dismantling of a
restrictive system of foreign exchange allocation and exchange rate determination which
undermined competitiveness and suppressed imports and private investment. At the same time,
it supported the elimination of many non-tariff barriers and a reduction/simplification of trade
tariff rates, as well deregulation and a reduction of unsustainable levels of public sector
expenditures and parastatal losses. The Export Retention Scheme was designed to provide a
strong transitional incentive for export expansion. The SAC HI also addressed elimination of the
requirement that farmers sell their maize to the Grain Marieting Board, removal of all
geographic restrictions on the transport of maize within Zimbabwe, and a change in the
marketing arrangements for beef, dairy products and cotton which were important for stimulating
agricultural growth, and poverty alleviation.
5.5   However, the Bank underestimated the risks to the adjustment program. The risks
stemmed from the strong possibility that reforms could exacerbate income inequality and from
the Land Acquisition Act in 1992 which increased the threat of expropriation.
5.6   Bank performance fell short in other respects. Given the necessity of a "sound and
sustainable macroeconomic management" in SAC II implementation period, 23public expenditure
23 See page 14. SAC 11 President's Report.



14
work, including a fiscal sustainability exercise should have been undertaken. It would have
identified the sequencing problem discussed above and would have helped establish expenditure
priorities and options for expenditure rationalization. It would have allowed the authorities to
have put in place a sustainable fiscal framework through expenditure restructuring and
rationalization prior to reforms that lowered the revenue-to-GDP ratio and raised interest
expenses in the budget. In turn, this would have contributed to a reduction in real interest rates,
which would have helped accelerate the recovery of employment in manufacturing and reduced
the decline in real wages. It would have also made the overall fiscal framework more viable, as
it would have been a better alternative to achieving the program's fiscal deficit targets without
implying the draconian reductions in discretionary expenditures that were implied by the
sequencing in the program. This would have helped generate political commitment for reforms
in SAC II. It might also have maintained the provision of services to the poor which had been the
core of the Government's strategy in the 1980s.
5.7    SAC H could have been more effectively leveraged. The relaxation of rules for
subdivision of land could have been included as a condition of disbursement which might have
had a positive impact on the land markets, thereby easing some pressure for land reform.
Parastatal conditionality should have been stronger; it should not have focused on plans, studies
and performance contracts. 24
5.8    Finally, the Bank should have formed a judgment not only about the
macroeconomic/fiscal targets, but also about the likelihood of their implementation.
Disbursement of second tranche should not have taken place until fiscal rectification had
occurred, and not just on the basis of promises. The IMF "comfort letter" (para 2.13) did not
explicitly address the issue of tranche release, nor the likelihood of the government
implementing its macroeconomic framework, and it was dated six months before the tranche was
actually released.26 The Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance
5.9    While the Government implemented economic liberalization under SAC II, it showed
little evidence of commitment to maintaining macroeconomic stabilization. After 1997, it
abandoned all efforts at reformn, reversed many of the price and trade liberalization measures
undertaken earlier in the decade, and adopted special interest measures, such as payments from
the budget to war veterans. It progressively became more strident in its claims that white
farmers should move off their land and be replaced by black farmers, and in June 2000,
proceeded on an aggressive takeover of large-scale commercial farms. These actions have
destroyed the core of efficient agriculture, and negated the benefits of marketing reforms, and
destabilized the economy. Borrower performance is judged to be highly unsatisfactory.
24 Dr. Chidzem, the Senior Minister of Finance, advised the Bank to get commitments before pushing harder.
75 Dr. Chidzero, the Senior Minister of Finance, advised the Bank to get commitments before pushing harder.
26 According to the ICR of SAC 11, the tranche was released based on government assurances that payments to war veterans in
August 1997 and increased military expenditures "would be handled in a manner that did not jeopardize achievement of the
agreed 1997198 fiscal targets nor the intention to further reduce the fiscal deficit in subsequent years" and a "comfort lettee' from
the IMF.



15
6.    Lessons
6.1   The experience with SAC II provides four lessons.
* First, given the short-term necessity of macroeconomic stability, especially achieving
fiscal sustainability, the Bank should have undertaken a public expenditure review prior
to 1995, should have been more forceful in ensuring that credible steps to achieve fiscal
sustainability were incorporated in our adjustment lending and should have formed a
judgment not only about the macroeconomic/fiscal targets, but also about the likelihood
of their implementation.
* Secondly, the Bank should not have relied so much on commitments with technocrats in
absence of political dialogue and consensus for reforms.
* Thirdly, the Bank should release tranches of adjustment loans on the basis of results,
rather than promises.
* Fourthly, adequate provisions for protecting the poor are paramount in adjustment
operations to a low-income client like Zimbabwe.






17
Annex A
BASIC PROJEcT DATA SHEET
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Credit 2527-ZIM)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ millions)
Appraisal       Actual or          Actual as % of
Estimate     Currekt estimate    Appraisal estimate
Total project costs                259.7            n.a
Loan amount                        125.00           n.a
Co financing                                        n.a
- Gernany                         28.4
- Netherlands                     26.3
- Multilateral Institutions       80.0
Cancellation
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (amount in US$ thousands)
FY93       FY94       FY95        FY96      FY97
Appraisal Estimate           62.50       62.50
Appraisal Estimate Cumulative  62.50    125.00
Actual                       50.78       11.02      0.0        0.0        59.98
Actual as % of appraisal (%)  81.24      17.63
Actual Cumulative            50.78       61.80     61.80      61.80      131.78
Project Dates
Original              Actual
Preparation                                                        1/22/93
Appraisal                                                          4/08/93
Negotiations                                                       5/11/93
Board Presentation                                                 6/29/93
Effectiveness                                                     12/08/93
First Tranche Release                                              1/21/94
Second Tranche Release                       09/08/94             12/23/97
Closing date                                                      12/31/97
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Staff Weeks               US$(OOO)
Preappraisal                               53.5                    133.9
Appraisal                                  13.2                     30.7
Negotiations through Board Approval        16.5                     38.5
Supervision                               147.1                    378.3
Completion                                 20.0                     50.0
Total                                     250.3                    631.4



18
Annex A (cont'd)
Mission Data
Date           No. of          SW in
(monthlyear)      Persons         Field
Identification                          11/92           n. a           n. a
Pre-Appraisal                           01/93
Appraisal                               04/93
Supervision*                           02/96
Completion                              06/97
* Supervision by resident mission staff.



19
Annex B
Status of Legal Covenants
Loan Agreement Section     Descripton of Covenant                  Comments
Article III           Particular covenants related to  Compiled with
progress monitoring, review,
reporting, recording and accounting.
Schedule 3, l(a)      Second tranche release conditions:  Done
Increase the Export Retention Scheme
rate to at least 60 percent.
Schedule 3, 1(b)      Implement the agriculture, marketing  Done
and processing reform measures for
beef, dairy, cotton and maize,
respectively, as set forth in paragraph
23 of the program.
Schedule 3, 2         Introduce, in accordance with    Done
paragraphs 42 and 44 of the Program,
respective operational frameworks for
Air Zimbabwe and the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation
from January 1, 1994, in substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 3,4          Take all necessary govermnental  Done
action to submit for parliamentary
approval, legislation which would: (i)
remove route and commodity specific
licensing for the transportation of
goods within its territory, and (ii)
focus licensing requirements on
vehicle road worthiness, traffic safety
and insurance coverage.
Schedule 1, 4         Macroeconomic policy framework is  - On August 6, 1997, Board agrees to
consistent with the objectives of the  release second tranche given satisfactory
Program                          fulfillment of second tranche release
conditions. However, just before the
second tranche was to be disbursed, new
unplanned public expenditures were
announced (i.e., compensation package
for war veterans), which were not
consistent with the macroeconomic policy
framework.
- This led the Bank to withhold
disbursement of the tranche, until
December 19, 1997, when the government
had adopted a series of compensating
fiscal measures, and assured the Bank that
its planned land reform program would be
implemented in an orderly manner,
without jeopardizing the fiscal
framework.



20
Annex C
Para 23 of the Letter of Development Policy
Agricultural Marketing
During the past 18 months, the government has begun a significant reform of the agricultural pricing
and marketing system in order to improve the efficiency of marketing mechanisms, increase the role of
the private sector in marketing and processing activities, and to increase the volume of production in the
sector, especially among small-scale farmers. The government has recently completed a draft of a
comprehensive marketing and price liberalization strategy. Using this document as a basis, the
government will continue with the program for reforming the agricultural pricing and marketing system,
including the elimination of the marketing monopolies currently held by the four agricultural parastatals
and abolition of price and other controls impeding the participation of the private sector in agricultural
marketing and processing activities.
(i)    Beef. The government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a) eliminate
the floor on producer and wholesale beef prices sold in domestic markets; (b) eliminate
slaughter quotas at all abattoirs; (c) review present health standards and regulations to insure
that public safety is maintained without reliance on production quotas; and (d) review export
regulations with the objective of permitting private individuals and firns to export beef and
beef products. The above-mnentioned changes will be made effective no later than the
beginning of the 1994-95 marketing year. In addition, the government will announce the
policy changes effective for the 1994-95 marketing year based on the review of health
standards at abattoirs and export regulations.
(ii)   Dairy. The government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a) transfer
licensing authority for dairy enterprises from DMB to an appropriate authority; (b) review the
present health standard regulations to ensure minimum health standards for milk production;
(c) continue the policy of allowing milk and milk products to be unregulated commodities (as
per the government's announcement of March 31, 1993); (d) allow DMB to continue to
purchase milk at process that are to DMB's best advantage; and (e) review export regulations
with the objective of permitting private individuals and frams to export dairy products. The
above-mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994-95
marketing year. In addition, the government will announce the policy changes effective for
the 1994-95 financial year based on the review of health standards and export regulations.
(iii)  Cotton. The government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a) abolish
the marketing and processing monopoly of the Cotton Marketing Board and abolish all
regulations restricting entry by others into the domestic marketing and processing of cotton
and cotton products, except for those relating to health, safety and environment; (b) continue
to allow producer prices for seed cotton to be market determined (as per the government's
announcement of March 31, 1993); (c) allow all marketing agents including CMB the
authority-subject to complying with uniform govermment quality standards - to mnarket
cotton products domestically to their best advantage, (d) review export regulations with the
objective of permitting private individuals and firm to export cotton and cotton products; and
(e) maintain the policy of allowing unrestricted cotton lint imports through the ERS. The
above-mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994-95
marketing season (April 1994). In addition, the government will announce the policy
changes effective for the 1994-95 marketing year based on the review of export regulations.
(iv)   Oilseeds. The government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a)
eliminate price floors on oilseeds and by products and allow GMB to purchase oilseeds to



21
their best advantage; and (b) review export regulations with the objective of permitting
private individuals and firms to export oilseeds and oilseed products. The above-mentioned
changes will be made effe4ctive no later than the beginning of the 1994-95 marketing season
(April 1994). In addition, the govemment will announce the policy changes effective for the
1994-95 marketing year based on the review of export regulations.
(v)   WheaL The govemment will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a) review
trade and stocking policy; (b) eliminate all marketing controls on wheat; (c) allow GMB to
announce and defend a floor for the producer price of wheat; (d) allow any private sector firmn
to participate in domestic wheat marketing; and (e) review export, import, and stocking
policy with the objective of permntting private individuals and firms to trade of wheat. The
above-mentioned changes will be made effective no' later than the beginning of the 1994-95
marketing season (April 1994). In addition, the govenmment will announce the policy
changes effective for the 1994-95 marketing year based on the above-mentioned review.
(vi)   Yellow Maize. The govemment will announce, by the end of July 1993, policy changes that
will eliminate all prices and marketing controls of yellow maize, thereby allowing market
determined prices and any private sector firm to participate in domestic yellow maize
marketing. The govemment will also review export! regulations, with the objective of
permitting private individuals and finms to export yellow maize. The above-mentioned
changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994-95 marketing season
(April 1994). In addition, the government will announce by December 1994 the policy
changes effective for the 1995-96 marketing year based on the review of export regulations.
(vii)  White Maize. The govenmment will, by the end of July 1993, develop a maize stocking
policy consistent with the government's security objectives and announce the first phase of a
package of reforms that will: (a) remove the requirement on farmers to sell white maize off
take to the Grain Marketing Board and allow anyone, except designated large millers, to buy
white maize from any domestic source; (b) redefinel zones A and B so that zone A is limited
to the operating premises of specific large-scale commercial millers in natural regions 1, II
and Im, and zone B as the rest of the country; (c) allow free and unrestricted movement and
sale of white maize in zone B; (d) allow GMB to defend a floor price for white maize at
selected depots in the country; (e) require GMB to sell at the wholesale price to all
individuals and firms. The above-mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the
beginning of the 1994-95 marketing season (April 1994).
The second phase of price and market liberalizationlfor white maize will be implemented at
the beginning of the 1995-96 marketing season, and will (a) allow all white maize and milled
products prices to be market detemnined, but GMB will continue to defend a floor price at
selected depots, (b) permit free and unrestricted movement and sale of white maize in all
areas of the country, i.e., the distinction between zones A and zone B will be eliminated.



22
Annex D
Timeline: Structural Adjustment Program in Zimbabwe
March 1991        Consultative Meeting - to discuss Framework for Economic Reform (FER)-
later termed ESAP, 1991-95.
December 1991     President's Report date for SAP I ($125 million IBRD, $50 million IDA).
9/11/1992         IMP Approved EFF and ESAF for 148 percent of Zim quota.
January 1992      Board approval for SAP I (two tranches).
April 1992        SAP I Effectiveness (1s Tranche release).
October 1992      SAP I second tranche release.
June 1993         Board approval for SAC U.
December 1993     SAC H Effectiveness (I1 Tranche release).
December 1993     Closing of SAC/SAL I.
February 1994     Last disbursement SAC/SAL I.
December 1994     Exchange rate unified and market determined. Open General Import Licensing abolished.
Eyport Retention Scheme rate increased to 100 percent (beyond 60 percent needed for SAP I
2 tranche release).
January-June 1995  IMF Cancels last year of ESAF-fiscal program off track.
February 1995     Exchange rate market determined, Zimbabwe qualifies to sign Article vm of IMF.
June 1995         Original closing date for SAC II (extended).
June 1995         Performance Audit of SAC I.
July 1995         Budget deficit (excl. grants) rises to 10.9 percent GDP-cancellation of final year of ESAF
program, delay in SAC II 2d tranche.
July 1997         Bank informed that budget deficit reduced to 6.5 percent GDP (recorded at time).
August 1997       Announcement of payments to war veterans (2 percent GDP equivalent.).
September 1997    Government of Zimbabwe announces "fast track" land acquisition program.
November 1997-    Exchange rate collapses, inflation accelerates. Government eliminates "temporarily"
January 1998   right of corporations to maintain foreign currency accounts. Promise to reinstate once
market is "stabilized".
December 1997     Government publishes ZIMPREST - stage two of its ESAP.



23
Late 1997/earlyl998  Civil unrest due to price increases.
December 1997      IMF "comfort letter" supported Bank release of SAC II due to perceived improvement on
fiscal deficit. SAC II second tranche release.
December 1997      Closing of SAC II (2.5 years beyond original closing date).
January 1998       IMF develop Stand-by arrangement.
June 1998          IMF approves Stand-by arrangement.
Aug.-Oct. 1998     Exchange rate collapses again.



24
Annex E
Zimbabwe: Relations with the Fund (as of October 31, 2000)
I.     Membership Status:  Joined: 09/29/1980; Article VIII
II.    General Resources Account:      SDR Million         % Ouota
Quota                            353.40             100.0
Fund holdings of currency        479.44             135.7
Reserve position in Fund           0.31               0.1
HI.    SDR Department:                 SDR Million         % Allocation
Net cumulative allocation        10.20              100.0
Holdings                         0.01               0.1
IV.    Outstanding Purchases and Loans:  SDR Million       % Ouota
Stand-By Arrangements            63.94              18.1
Extended Arrangements            62.4               17.7
Poverty Reduction Growth Facility  93.56            26.5
(PRGF) Arrangements
V.     Financial Arrangements:
Amount       Amount
Approval    Expiration   Approved     Drawn
_ype                 Date        Date        (SDR Million) (SDR Million)
Stand-By Arrangement 08/02/1999  10/01/2000   141.36       24.74
Stand-By Arrangemnent 06/01/1998  06/30/1999  130.65       39.20
Extended Fund Facility 09/11/1992  09/10/1995  114.60      86.9
(EFF)
VI.    Proiected Obligations to Fund: (SDR Million; based on existing use of resources and present
holdings of SDRs):
Overdue                Forthcoming
10/31/2000   2000  2001   2002  2003   2004
Principal                        4.5   66.5   73.5  46.4   24.1
Charges/interest                 2.2    7.1    4.8   2.4    1.0
Total                            6.7   73.6   78.3  48.8   25.1
VII.  Exchange Rate Arrangement
From January 1999 to July 2000, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) at US$1=Z$38 fixed the
exchange rate de facto. Since August 1, 2000 exchange rate has been allowed to fluctuate in a
range of +1-5 percent around the central rate set by the RBZ. The central rate is adjusted
periodically in light of inflation differentials with trading partners. As of October 23, 2000, the
central rate was US$1=Z$55.
Zimbabwe accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of
Agreement on February 3, 1995. The RBZ maintains a multiple currency practice arising from



25
Annex E (cont'd)
outstanding contracts under a discontinued RBZ schemel for forward foreign exchange cover (to
be cleared by end-2001). Fund approval of this measure, pursuant to Article VmI, Section 2(a)
and Section 3, lapsed in March 2000. Moreover, the linitation on the availability of foreign
exchange from the RBZ (as evidenced by the accumulation of external payments arrears by the
private sector), gives rise to an exchange restriction subject to Fund approval under Article VmI.
Section 2(a).
vyI.   Article IV Consultations
Zimbabwe is on the standard 12-month consultation cycle. The last Article IV consultation was
concluded on May 5, 1999 (EBM/99/5 1).
IX.    Technical Assistance
Fund technical assistance to Zimbabwe has been limited during the past 12 months. An MAE-
sponsored long-term advisor arrived in Zimbabwe in August 1996 to assist in the area of banking
supervision; his appointment was not extended beyond October 1999. Another MAE expert on
monetary operations provided advice and trained staff in the implementation of open market
operations and the use of repurchase agreements from October 1998 until October 2000. A third
MAE expert on the payment system, who also advised the RBZ on the array of monetary
instruments to be used to monitor and manage liquidity in the financial sector, completed a one-
year assignment in October 1999.
X.     Resident Representative
A resident representative office was opened in July 1993.



26
Annex F
Table 1: Profits/Losses of the Major Public Enterprises
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98       1999    2000
National Oil Company     116      272     183     119      -266    -1,013   -5,502  -3,143  -2,106
of Zim. (NOCZIM)
Zim. Electricity Supply   Na      na      na       na       na       na       na     -282    3,038
Authority (ZESA)
Posts and                 Na      na       na      na       na       na       na     -367   -3,250
Telecommunication
Corporation (PTC)
National Railways of     -72     -128    -108     -121     -253    -184      -703     282   -1,080
Zimbabwe (NRZ)
Cold Storage Company     -83     -125     -123     -27    -288     -546      -901    -455   -1,723
(CSC)
Zim. Iron and Steel      -110    -184    -187     -380     -277    -495      -688   -1,339  -2,730
Company (ZISCO)
Air Zim. AIRZIM           9       -41     41       36      -105     -206     -282     97    -106
Grain Marketing Board    -521    -626    -1,144  -1,061     29      -183     -450    -2,124  -3,332
GMB
Agricultural Bank of      -20     16       14      18       19       31       51      93     -38
Zimbabwe
AGRIBANK
Total                    -681    -816    -1,324  -1,416   -1,141   -2,596   -8,475   -7,238  11,327
Percent of GDP           -1.8    -2.4     -2.8    -2.2     -1.1     -2.5     -7.4     -3.4   -3.5
Note: Until 1999, the fiscal year was from July to June, except for 1997/98 which covers 18 months from July 1997-
December 1998.
Source: World Bank Public Enterprises in Zimbabwe, Financial Perforrnance. Fiscal Impact and Recent Reform
Initiatives, September 2001.



Table 2: Percentage Distribution of Gross Domestic Product by Industry, 1990-99
Industry                  1990     1991    1992   1993     1994    1995   1996   1997      1998     1999
Agriculture, Hunting, and Fishing         14.8     14.0    11.7    14.5    14.8    13.6   14.8    15.0     15.4     16.4
Mining and Quarrying                       3.9      3.7     4.0    3.8      4.0     4.3    3.7     3.6      3.8      3.6
Manufacturing                             20.5     21.3    21.9   21.4     20.5    19.0   19.6    19.0     18.2     17.8
Electricity and Water                      2.5      2.2     2.4    2.0      2.1     2.1    1.9     1.8      1.7      1.8
Construction                               2.9      2.7     3.1    2.9      2.8     2.1    2.1     2.4     2.5       2.5
Finance and Insurance                      6.2      6.0     6.5    7.3      7.3     7.5    7.1     6.6     6.8       6.5
Real Estate                                2.2      2.1     2.5    2.5      2.5     2.6    2.4     2.5     2.5       2.7
Distribution, Hotels and Restaurants      15.2     15.1    15.5    15.1    15.4    16.2   15.7    15.6     15.2     15.5
Transport and Conimunication               5.5      5.3     6.3    5.9      6.1     7.5    8.1     8.0     7.7       8.1
Public Administration                      5.7      5.4     5.7    5.3      4.4     4.4    3.7     3.4      3.1      3.1
Education                                  5.9      5.6     6.1    6.0      5.8     5.9    5.9     6.2      6.4      6.4
Health                                     1.5      1.5     1.6     1.8     2.0     1.9    1.6     1.2      1.2      1.2
Domestic Services                          1.6      1.5     1.6     1.5     1.5     1.4    1.4     1.4      1.3      1.3
Other Services                             3.6      3.9     4.4    4.3      4.2     3.9    3.9     4.2     4.1       4.4
Less Imputed Bank Service Charges          -2.0    -2.0    -1.5   -2.0     -2.3    -1.8   -1.3    -1.1     -0.9     -0.6
GDP at Factor Cost                        90.0     88.3    91.7   92.4     91.0    90.7   90.7    89.6     89.0     90.4
Net Other Taf-esfon Production-            0.6      0.6     0.4    0.4      04      0.4    0.4     0.4     0.4       0.3
GDP atBasic Prices                        90.6     88.8    92.1   92.8     91.4    91.1   91.1    90.1     89.4     90.7
Net Taxes on Products                      9.4     11.2     7.9    7.2      8.6     8.9    8.9     9.9     10.6      9.3
Source: Bank Regional Data Base.
Note: Constant 1990 prices.



Table 3: Zimbabwe Agricultural Crop Production, 1990-2000"
1990                             1996               1997                2000                     0
% of total         % of total  000    % of total          % of total
Z $ m     % of total value 000 tons Production 000 tons Production  tons  Production 000 tons Production
Commercial farmsV                           75
Tobacco (flue cured)'         868           40          124       100       169      100      162      100        185      100
Maize                         128            6          709       36        784       33      628       31        756       41
Cotton4'                      106            5           84       42         74       33       64       25         64       21
Sugarcane3/                   216           10        3,093      100      2,532      100     2,075     100       1,149     100
Wheat3"                       148            7          274       100       206      100      245      100        250      100
Tea3/                          83            4           26      100         20      100       15      100         22      100
Coffee3'                       51            2           11      100         14      100       10      100          8      100
Soybeans3'                     49            2          111       100        95      100       97      100        139      100
Communal lands5'                            25
Maize                         293           13         1,285      64       1,607      66     1,397      69       1,110      59
Cotton                        103            5          118       58        151       66      191       75        240       79
Groundnuts                     74            3          102      100         68      100      143      100        168      100
Sunflower Seeds              19.2            1           60      100         45      100       30      100         10      100
Rapoko                         19            1           66      100         36      100       19      100         11      100                 rx
Mhunga                         18            1           74      100         74      100       68      100         29      100
Sorghum                        12            1           72      100         87      100      113      100         83      100
Source: Central Statistical Office.
" Crop Season ending in year indicated.
2' Large and small-scale commercial farms.
3/ Large-scale commercial farms only. Production on large-scale commercial farms constitutes more than 95 percent of total production.
41 Includes deltapine and delmac cotton.
5/ Communal lands and resettlement areas



29
Annex F (cont'd)
Table 4: Employment Growth by Industry 1991-99 (%)
Averages                                          Averages
Industry       1985-90 1991-95   1995   1996    1997    1998   1999   1991-99
Agriculture, Forestry, and
Fishing                1.20   2.90     1.21   3.89    5.19    -1.37  -7.50   1.63
Mining and Quarrying    -0.90    3.00   11.32    1.69   -1.67    3.39  -3.28   1.68
Manufacturing            2.90   -1.00   -7.00   -1.08   7.61     6.06  -4.76   0.31
Electricity and Water    3.00    2.00   11.11  20.00     8.33   15.38  13.33   7.45
Construction             9.20   -0.60   -15.29   8.33    0.00    5.13  -15.85  -0.60
Finance and Insurance,
and Real Estate       2.00    3.80    -4.55   4.76   18.18   11.54   6.90    6.71
Distribution, Hotels and
Restaurants           3.10     1.10   -3.81   0.00    4.95    6.60    1.77   2.09
Transport and
Communication          1.00   -0.80   -3.77  -1.96    2.00   11.76  -24.56  -1.86
Public Administration    0.80   -3.60    0.00   -7.79   -5.63   -1.49  -4.55   -4.16
Education                4.40    1.40    2.65   9.48     7.87    2.19   -3.57  2.55
Health                   3.90    0.80    0.00   3.85    0.00     3.70   0.00   1.28
Domestic Services        0.70    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00
Other Services           5.00    3.40    -5.49   8.14   10.75    0.97   9.62   5.16
Total                    2.40    0.80    -1.90  2.74   '3.85    3.40   -4.31   1.08
Sources: 1) Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. 2001. Chiripanhura B.M. and Makawavarara T. -[he Labour
Market and Econornic Development 1980-2000." Harare (mimeo) based on CSO.
2) Zimbabwe: Recent Economic Developments, Selected Issues, and Statistical Approach, lMF Country
Report No. 01/13.



30
Annex F (cont'd)
Table 5: Trends in Real Earings, 1990-99 (Indices 1980=100)
Sector                1990     1992     1994      1996     1998      1999
Agriculture                        130.4     69.8     74.8      85.4      80.5     72.5
Mining                             115.6     97.3      89.5    113.2     117.8    106.2
Manufacturing                       103.1      83     73.8      88.9      75.2     68.1
Electricity                         93.6     78.7     85.1       129     182.2    138.6
Construction                        77.7     56.6     46.2      65.5      66.8     53.8
Finance                             93.4     89.2     77.5      99.3      88.2     73.4
Distribution                        84.5     70.4     57.9      74.9      67.7     61.5
Transportation & Comrnunication       90     66.2     60.7        68      63.9     63.7
Public Administration               60.5     41.2     35.1      59.5      68.3     66.7
Education                           81.8     64.2     48.5        75      75.2     74.1
Health                              89.8     67.8     55.7      80.3      98.9     87.5
Pvt. Domestic Services              81.9     48.4       31      25.3      13.3      8.4
Other                               80.3     61.4     54.9      70.1      65.5     56.3
Total                              102.8       78     67.1      88.1      88.7     80.7
Source: Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. 2001. Chiripanhura B.M., and Makawavarara T. "The Labour
Market and Economic Development 1980-2000." Harare (mimeo) based on CSO.
Table 6: Functional Distribution of Income, 1991-97 (%)
% Change
1991    1992     1993    1994    1995     1996    1997       1993-97
Wages             43       43      40      37       40      37       39         -2.5
Rent               2       3        2       2       2        2       2          0.0
Profit            58       57      60      63       52      63       61          1.7
Total             100     100      100     100     100      100     100
Source: Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. 2001. Chiripanhura B.M. and Makawavarara T. "The Labor Market and
Economic Development 1980-2000". Harare (mimeo). Calculated From Quarterly Digest of Statistics,
December 1998.
Note:  Percentage shares do not add to 100 due to omission of imputed Bank charges.



31
Annex G
LIST OF PERSONS INTERVIEWED
Government
H.E. Mr. Msika, Senior Vice President of Zimbabwe
H.E. Dr. Bernard Chizero, Former Senior Minister of Finance, Advisor to the President
H.E. Mr. July Moyo, Minister Employment, Social Welfare and Community Development
H.E. Dr.Timothy Stamps, Minister of Health
Dr. Leonard Tsumba, Governor, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe,
Mr. Nicholas Ncube, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Dr. Vincent Hungwe, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Lands
Dr. Mambo, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education
Mr. Chiwewe, Principal Secretary-Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Dr. Sikosana, Principal Secretary , Ministry of Health
Mr. Charles Kuwaza, Former Principal Secretary Finance, Advisor, President's Office
Dr. Sydney Gata, Chairman, Zimbabwe Electric Supply Authority
Ms. Diana Guti, Commissioner, Public Service Commission
Mr. Fred Chunga, Advisor, President's Office
Dr. S. M. T. Malaba, Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
Mr. Obert Matshalaga, Director, Domestic & Intl. Finance, Ministry of Finance & Economic
Development
Mr. Andrew Bvumbe, Director, Privatization Agency of Zimbabwe.
OMr. Vongai E. Dube, Accountant General
Mr. E. T. Chigudu, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Mr. Mutasa Dzinotizei, Ministry of Finance, Fiscal and Economics Departnent
Mr. Manungo, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe,
Dr. Stewart Hargreaves, Ministry of Agriculture
Mr. Machirovi, Director of Central Statistical Office
Mr. F. N. Maziveyi, Assistant Director, Ministry of Mines and Energy
Mr. M. M. Mantiziba, Ministry of Industry and International Trade
Ms. Florence Makombe, Ministry of Industry and International Trade
Mr. Madavo, Ministry of Local Government
Mr. C. T. Mzezewa, Ministry of Mines and Energy
Ms. Meise Nasasu, Ministry of Finance, Public Sector Expenditure Division
Mr. Herbert Takavarasha, Domestic and International Fin
Ms. Eppie Ushewokunze, Ministry of Health
Ms. Joan Mtukwa, Chief Executive Grain Marketing Board
Dr. Enos Shumba, GM, Forestry Commission,
Mrs Goromonzi, Ministry of Employment, Social Welfare and Community Development
Mr. Mhishi, Ministry of Employment, Social Welfare and Community Development
Mr. Turugari, Ministry of Employment, Social Welfare and Community Development
Mr. Mashingaidze, Ministry of Employment, Social Welfare and Community Development



32
Annex G (cont'd)
Politicians not in Government
Mr. Morgan Tsvangirai, Leader of the Opposition- Movement for Democratic Change
Mr. Gasela, Member of Parliament
Bank Staff
Mr. Yaw Ansu, Country Director
Ms. Barbara Kafka, formner Country Director
Mr. C. Poortman, former Resident Representative
Mr. David Cooke, Former Resident Representative
Mr. Tom Allen, former Resident Representative
Mr. Rogier van den Brink, Acting Resident Representative
Mr. Farehtin Yagci, Lead Economist
Mr. Hans Binswanger,
Mr. Steven Jaffe,
Mr. Jorge Munoz
Ms. Laura Fragenti
Ms. Trina Haque
Mr. Muzumbuka Dzingai
Ms. Imoni, IFC Res. Rep
Mr. Caesar Chidawanyika
Dr. Ebrahim Jassad
Dr. Hope Phillips-Volker
Mr. Patience Matshe, Investment Officer-Sub-Saharan African Department, International Finance
Corporation (IFC)
Dr. Musonda Chipalo, Senior Investment Officer-Sub-Saharan African Department International Finance
Corporation (IFC)
Ms. Imoni Akpofure, Regional Representative, International Finance Corporation (IFC)
Donors
Ms. Palrnberg, Embassy of Sweden
Mr. Abdi Foum, Embassy of Sweden
Mr. Fred Bitanihirwe, FAO
Ms. Rose-Marie Depp, Director USAID
Ms. Joy Kimemia, Head AMSCO
Mr. Peter Halpert, USAID
Ms. Gill Wright, First Secretary and Program Manager, Acting Head, DFID
Mr. Jean-Paul Cosse, Economic and Commercial Counselor for Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi, French
Trade Commission/Embassy of France
Mr. Adriaan Adams, Trade Representative, South African High Commission
Mr. Calisto Chihera, Senior Program Officer, Australian High Commission
Mr. Peter Esderts, Director, German Technical Co-operation
Mr. Takeaki Sato, Resident Representative, Japan International cooperation agency
Ms. Marwienke Tillema, Second Secretary, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
Ms. Kathryn Dunlop, Counselor, (Development), Canadian High Commission
Dr. Werner Koehler, Counselor, German Embassy
Mr. Titier Baillet, Agence Francaise de Development Proparco



33
Annex G (cont'd)
Alex Kremer, Counselor (Economic), European Union (Delegation of the European Commission to
Zimbabwe
Mr. Chuah T. B., Counselor, Malaysian High Commission
NGOs
Mr. Mike Mispalaar, S AFIRE LAND NGO
Dr. Sunanda Ray, SAFAIDS
Mr. Andrew Boner, Country Director, Population Services International
Mr. Frank Guni, People living with AIDS
Dr. Mugurungi, NACP
Mr. Abby Taki Mciuciu, Woman and Land lobby Group
Ms. Tokozile Ncube, Assistant Information Officer, Women's Action Group
Ms. Lydia Zigomo Nyatsanza, Director, Zimbabwe Women Lawyers Association
Mr. Gladman M. Kundhlande, Deputy Director, Southern Alliance for Indigenous Resources
Mr. Dennis OBrien, Country Director, CARE Zimbabwe
Mr. C. Muropa, Conmmunication Link Trust
Ms. Evelyn D. Serima, Executive Director, Zimbabwe Aids Prevention and Support Organisation
(ZAPSO)
Ms. Matshaka Mary, Zimbabwe AIDS prevention Project (ZAPP)
Mike Mispelaar, Project Advisor, Community-Based Resettlement Approaches and Technologies Project
(CREATE)
Bheki Maboyi, Community-Based Resettlement Approaches and!Technologies Project (CREATE)
Joy Kimemiah, Regional Office Training Coordinator, African Management Services company
(AMSCO)
Mr. Victor Chisi, Consumer Council of Zimbabwe
Academics
Professor Tony Hawkins, Graduate School of Management, University of Zimbabwe
Professor Peter Robinson, Zimconsult (Independent Economnic and Planning Consultants)
Professor Daniel B. Ndlela, Zimconsult (Independent Economnic and Planning Consultants) and Advisor
MDC
Professor Sam Moyo, SAPES Trust
Ms. Pozarny, Land Tenure Center, University of Zimbabwe
Dr. Tobias Takavarasha, Department of Agricultural Economics,' University of Zimbabwe
Dr. Jacob Kaliyati, Institute of Development Studies University of Zimbabwe,
Dr.Bill Kinsey, Researcher                           I
Ms. Nomasomi N. Mpofu, Social and Gender Analyst, Poverty Reduction Unit/United Nations
Development Programme
Mr. Roger Dhhwayo, Lecturer, University of Zimbabwe
Ms. Muriel Mafico, Coordinator, Poverty Reduction Forum, Institute of Development Studies, University
of Zimbabwe
Dr. Theresa Moyo, Manager, Southern African Micro Finance Capacity Building Facility



34
Annex G (cont'd)
Business
Mr. Mr. Tim Henwood (President) and Senior Members, Commercial Farmers Union
Mr. Kumbirai Katsande, Chainran, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Chairman, PG
Manufacturing
Mr. Malvem Zed Rusike, Chief Executive, Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries
Mr. Callisto M. Jokonya, Vice President, Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries
Mr. Bernard Mufute, Senior Economist, Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries
Mr. Joshua Nyoni, J. M. Nyoni & Associates (Pvt.) Ltd,
Mr. Zumbika, Agribank,
Mr. Mutumwa Mawere, Industrialist and Banker
Ms. Florence Mashaire, Director, Florimask Enterprises (Pvt.) Ltd
Ms. Emelda Nyamupingidza, Executive Director, Zesk Products/Barron Floor Polishers/Mega Candles
Ms. Grace Kuvengurwa, Indigenous Business Women's Organization
Mrs. Shungunashe Famba, Vanity Kitchens P/L
Mr. Ben Magaiza, ZNCC
Mr. David W. Hasluck, Director, Commercial Farmers' Union of Zimbabwe
Mr. Norman Ndlovu, Cotton Company of Zimbabwe
Mr. Collins Chihuri, Company Secretary, The Cotton Company of Zimbabwe Limited






IMAGING
Report No.:         25479
Type:      PPAR



