Docamsat of
The World Bank
FOR &0IcIAL USE ONLY
Report o P-6085-ZIM
REPORT ANID RECNENDATILON
OF TE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DFVELOPIENT ASSOCIAT.O!ON
TO TB EXECIUTIVE DIRECTORS
( A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 88.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
'FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
JUNE 4, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bq recipients only in the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed without World Bank autorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 1993)
US$ 1.00 = Z$ 6.30
US$ 0.16 = Z$ 1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF             African Development Fund
ADB             African Development Bank
CMB             Cotton Marketing Board
CSC             Cold Storage Commission
CSO             Central Statistics Office
DMB             Dairy Marketing Board
EFF             Extended Fund Facility
ERS             Export Retuntion Scheme
ESAF            Enhanced Structural Adjt ntment Facility
ESAP            Economic Structural Adjustment Program
CDP             Gross Domestic Product
GMB             Grain Marketing Board
(;OZ            Govemment of Zimbabwe
IDA             Intemational Development Association
IFC             Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF             International Monetary Fund
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MIGA            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGO             Non-Governmental Organizations
NOCZIM          National Oil Company of Zimbabwe
NRZ             National Railways of Zimbabwe
OGIL            Open General Import License
OPIC            Overseas Private Investment Corporation
PSE             Public Sector Enterprise
PSIP            Public Sector Investment Program
PTC             Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
SAC             Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL             Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA             Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SDF             Social Development Fund
UNDP            UnF'ed Nations Development Program
USAID           Unit%d States Agency for International Development
ZESA            Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZIC             Zimbabwe Investment Center
ZISCO           Zimbabv - Iron & Steel Company
ZTUC            Zimbabwe Trade Union Congress
METRIC EOUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                   =       3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)         =       10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)              =       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km)            0.386 square miles
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFMICIL US ONLY
ZIMBABWE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT n
Table of Contents
Su                  mmary .......................................                  i
I      COUNTRY POLICIES AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ............ 2
A. EconomicPerformance inthe 1980s .......           ................... 2
B. Tle Move to Adjustment ............          ..................... 2
C. Initial Steps in Adjustment ............     .....................  3
D. Dealing with Drought in 1992 .........        .....................  4
E. Status of Adjustment at The End of 1992 ........................ 5
F. The Next Phase of Adjustment .........        .....................  6
U      BANK'S ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ............................ 7
A. Bank Strategy ......................................... 7
B. Lending Program and Economic and Sector Work .....         ............. 8
C. Areas of Special Operational Interest .........................  10
D. Cooperation with Multilaterals and Bilaterals ....................  10
I. PHASE n OF TRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT .11
A. Policy Actions for 1993 and 1994 .11
B. Medium-term Macroeconomic Prospects .16
C. The Need for External Finance .17
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDT  . .18
V.     BENEFTS ANDRLSKS . .................................. 20
VL RECOMENDATION   ..21
Annex I  PolicyMatrix .22
Annex nI   Letter of Development Policy ...... 26
Annex Il  Statistical Tables .43
Annex IV   Bank Group Operation in Zimbabwe.                                       48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZIMBABWE
STRUCTVURA ADJUSTMENT CREDIT 11 (SAC 11)
SUMMARY
Bonrower         :  Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ)
Benefidary       :  Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ)
Amount           :  IDA - SDR88.3 million (US$125 million equivalent)
Cofinancing      :  Several donors will provide parallel financing to support the
Government's Structural Adjustmnent Proan including ADB, EEC,
U.K., USAID, SIDA, the Netherlands, Norway and Denmark.
Terms            :  IDA Credit - Repayable in 35 years, with a 10-year grace period.
Description      :  The objective of the credit is to support the implementation of the second
phase of Zimbabwe's structural adjustment program. Given good
progress in the first phase of the program and taking into account the
effects of the 1992 drought, this support is appropriate and in line with
the Bank's assistance strategy for Zimbabwe. SAC II focuses on
generating a more rapid supply response, while continuing efforts to
restore macroeconomic stability, improve public sector management and
shield poor and vulnerable groups from harsh transitional effects arising
from adjustment. To achieve the rapid increase in investment and
exports which are vital to the sustainability and success of structural
adjustment in Zimbabwe, SAC 1 would support (Q) further trade policy
reform to promote exports, (ii) investment delicensing to facilitate an
increase in private investment, and (iii) agricultural marketing and price
reform to broaden private sector involvement and competition.
Benefits            The principal benefit of the reform program will be increased private
investment and thereby higher economic growth and the diversification
of production and exports. Zimbabwe's potential for a quick acceleration
of investment, exports, growth and employment, is one of the best on the
African continent. Trade policy reform will ensure the smooth and
efficient utilization of scarce foreign exchange resources. Investment
deregulation wIll facDlitate both domestic and foreign investment and will
provide entrepreneurs with increased flexibility to respond to
opportunities and competitive pressures. New foreign investment will be
encouraged by the automatic and unrestricted remittability of dividends.
Liberalization of agricultural pricing and marketing will expand
opportunities for the private sector. Reduction of the fiscal deficit will
increase business confidence in the sustainability of macroeconomic
management and make resources available for increased private sector



- ii -
investment. Restoring per capita recurrent expenditure on education and
health to their FY91/92 levels will continue important investments in
human resources.
Risks            :  As with any structural adjustment program, Zimbabwe's program carries
a number of risks. The two general areas of concern are: (i) the risk
that planned policy reforms will not be implemented in full and on
schedule, and (ii) the possibility of adverse exogenous factors. Public
confidence In, and support for, the program could dissipate if benefits
aren't visible quickly. To ensure that the program is sustainable and to
maintain widespread public support, it is imperative that trade aud
regulatory policy reforms to generate a supply response are not delayed.
Confidence in the program could also be threatened if all anticipated
measures are impleirented as planned, but continuing adverse exogenous
factors prevent ^. return to economic growth in 1993 and 1994. Rainfall
during the 1992/93 cropping season has been good and the prospects for
agricultural recovery are promising. However, full recovery of the
agricultural sector, and the restoration of agro-based export growth, will
require another good rainy season in 1993/94. On the external front, the
political situation in Mozambique through which much of Zimbabwe's
trade flows, remains unsettled. Also, continued unrest in South Africa,
one of Zimbabwe's main trading partners, could adversely affect exports.
Disbursenents       The proposed Credit would be disbursed in two tranches. A first tranche
of SDR44.15 million (i.e. 50 percent of the Credit) is proposed which
would be available as soon as the Credit is effective. The second tranche
of SDR44. 15 million, to be released six to nine months later, would be
contingent upon satisfactory progress in implementing the overall
program, in addition to a number of specifled conditions. Disbursement
would follow standard Bank procedures for imports and the Credit would
reimburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of ERS and OGIL
imports. Not more than 20 percent of the Credit will be used for the
bulk pu. chase of foodstuffs or petroleum products.
Appraisal Report    There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TIHE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDfT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC II) to the Republic of Zimbabwe for SDR 88.3 million (US$125 million
equivalent) on IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years.
2.        The proposed operation will support implementation of the second phase of
Zimbabwe's structural adjustment program. Reforms already undertaken by the Government of
Zimbabwe were supported by SAL I from the World Bank group, and the parallel ESAF/EFF
arrangements provided by the IMF. Zimbabwe's economic reform program has been described
in its Policy Framework Paper (PFP), 1992-1995, which was discussed by the Committee of the
Whole on August 4, 1992.
3.        The first phase of the country's Structural Adjustment Program has been implemented
under extremely adverse conditions created by the major drought that affected the whole of
Southern Africa during 1992. While most of the agreed policy measures were implemented in
accordance with SAL I, which was approved in January 1992, economic performance has been
below expectations. The supply response to the policy changes introduced during the first phase
of structural adjustment has been overshadowed by the economic recession brought about by the
drought. This recession has severely lhmited investors' options and confidence. Rain bas now
returned to Zimbabwe and, together with it, the promise for economic recovery. Against this
background, Go'-xrnment has formulated, with World Bank and IMP assistance, the second phase
of economic reforms. These reforms are in line with the 5-year Program of Economic Reform
announced by Government in 1991, but strengthened significandy in areas vital to the renewal
of private sector investment and the restoration of export growth. Despite the adverse conditions
prevailing in 1992, the Government remains strongly committed to the adjustment effort. Indeed,
the willingness of the policy makers to implement frequently unpopular measures - such as major
increases in the prices of basic foodstuffs - at the height of the drought, has demonstrated
Government's determination to see the program through, even during periods of hardship.
4.        This proposed second Structural Adjustment Credit focuses on generating a more
rapid supply response, while continuing efforts to restore macroeconomic stability, improve
public sector management and shield poor and vulnerable groups from harsh transitional effects
arising from adjustment. To achieve the rapid increase in investment and exports which are vital
to the sustinability and success of structural adjustment in Zimbabwe, SAC II would support (i)
further trade policy reform to promote exports, (ii) investment delicensing to facilitate an Increase
in private investment, and (Oii) agricultural marketing and price reform to broaden private sector
involvement and competition.
5.        Part I of this memorandum gives an overview of Zimbabwe's economic performance
since the 1980s and evaluates the country's performance under Phase I of the adjustment
program. Part II oudines the Bank's assistance strategy in Zimbabwe and discusses the Bank's
ongoing and proposed operations and economic and sector work. Part m describes Phase II of
the adjustment program and summarizes the country's medium-term macroeconomic and
structural policies for the period of the proposed credit. Zimbabwe's medium-term economic



-2 -
prospects and the need for external finance are also discussed in Part HI. Part IV describes
specific features of the proposed credit, including conditions for effectiveness and second tranche
release, while Part V discusses the benefits and risks of the operation.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Economic Performance in the 1980s
6.        Zimbabwe has a relatively well-developed physical infrastructure, a stronger
industrial base than any other country in the region with the exception of South Africa, a buoyant
commercial agriculture sector, and a sophisticated business community. However, the economy
was - and to a great extent still is - dominated by the country's white minority with only a limited
number of black entrepreneurs participating in formal sector activities. As a result, Government
economic and political strategy during the first decade of independence was aimed primarily at
rapidly reducing social inequality. Under this strategy, large investments were made in human
resources and the public sector became increasingly involved in economic activity through direct
investment in the productive sectors, subsidy programs for rural development, foreign exchange
and price controls, and strict regulation of private investment. Despite these policies, however,
the private sector renained a driving force in the economy.
7.        Zimbabwe's development strategy produced mixed results during the 1980s. While
the country made great strides in education, health and smallholder agriculture, its per capita
income remained stagnant because of disappointing economic growth which averaged about 3.2
percent pe. annum. Private sector investment as a share of GDP fell to below 10 percent, and
total investment, at less than 20 percent of GDP, was insufficient to expand the country's capital
stock and raise productivity. Labor force growth outpaced the expansion of employment
opportunities so that by the end of the 1980s only one in three school leavers were being
absorbed into the formal sector each year. Most of the growth in formal sector enmployment
during the 1980s was in the public sector. Large government deficits of over 10 percent of GDP
crowded out private investment and fueled inflation. After a period of large foreign borrowing
in the early 1980s, the current account deficit of the balance of payments was kept in check
through a str.ct system of direct foreign exchange allocations, thereby avoiding excessive foreign
borrowing and debt build-up. However, the resulting shortages of imported goods constrained
investment and productivity.
B. The Move to Adjustment
8.        Towards the end of the decade, it became increasingly clear to Zimbabwe's policy
makers that sustained income growth in the country would require fundamental changes in
economic management. In particular, the fiscal deficit had to be reduced to a sustainable level,
trade policy had to be liberalized, and domestic regulations had to be greaty reduced. Bolstered
by the successful elections of 1990, Government undertook the preparation of a wide-ranging
program of policy reform which was outlined in a document entitied Framework for Economic
Reform, 1991-1995. This document, which was prepared with Bank and IMP assistance and
distributed widely within the country, was presented to the country's donors in early 1991. The
adjustment program, which is phased over five years, addresses the key policy constraints that
hampered Zimbabwe's development in the 1980s and should increase public sector efficiency,
private sector development, and employment creation. Its main components are: (a; fiscal deficit
reduction and monetary policy reform; (b) trade liberalization; (c) domestic deregulation of



private sector activities; (d) sector-specific policy initiatives; and (e) measures to alleviate the
impact of reforms on vulnerable groups. The program, which sets specific policy targets to be
achieved during the 5-year period, constitutes a departure from pervasive direct controls to
market forces and is an appropriate blend of structural reforms and arncro-economic stabilization
measures.
C. Initial Steps In Adjustment
9.        During the first two years of Zimbabwe's structural adjustment program, good
progress was made in addressing the key policy constraints in the economy. In conformity with
the program laid out in the Framework for Economic Reform, the Government took important
policy decisions during 1991. First, in trade reform, a system of Open Genera Import
Licensing was established, covering strategic materials (e.g. cement), intermediate goods (e.g.
tires and spare parts) and finished goods (e.g. light bulbs), in total amounting to 15 percen; of
imports at the end of 1991. Simultaneously, the Export Retention Scheme was increased from
7.5 percent to 15 percent of export earnings, in order to provide additional incentives to exports
as well as provide access to license-free imports. To support denand management measures in
maintainng a r. asonable balance of payments position, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
accelerated the real depreciation of the exchange rate. Second, the Government accelerated its
program of fiscal reform by adopting a budget that would reduce tne deficit from 10.7 percent
of GDP in 1990/91 to 7.1 percent of GDP for 1991/92 through a combination of cuts in the civil
service wage bill, parastatal subsidies, capital expenses, and other goods and services
expenditures. Government revenue remained virtually unchanged, despite cuts in personal and
corporate tax rates. During the 1991/92 fiscal year, nearly 7,000 civil service positions were
abolished, and prices were increased to improve financial performance and reduce the combined
losses of the National Railways of Zimbabwe, the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority, Air
Zimbabwe, the National Oil Company of Zimbabwe, Post and Telecommunications, and the
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company. Third, in the area of domestic deregulation, steps were
taken to liberalize marketing and pricing. In addition to the tariff increases for public sector
enterprises, agricultural producer prices were raised and price controls were lifted for all goods
on OGIL. Marketing of a number of smaller crops (e.g. red sorghum and millet) was
decontrolled, with the Grain Marketing Board becoming a residual buyer. Maize movement
restrictions in comniunal areas were lifted and transport regulations for smaller trucks (ten tons
and below) confined to matters of health and safety. Finally, the Labor Relations Act was
amended to formalize a transparent and quick mechanism for retrenching labor.
10.       While good progresp. was thus made in initiating the adjustment process, macro-
economic balances deteriorated during 1991. There was a significant deterioration in the current
account of the balance of payments, from 4.2 percent of GDP in 1990 to 8.7 percent of GDP in
1991. Export receipts remained sluggish due to a disappointing agricultural export performance
resulting from below-average rainfall, as well as the world economic slow-down aggravated by
the Gulf crisis. On the other hand, imports grew rapidly because of a large pent-up demand for
OGIL-listed products, and speculation about further exchange rate movements. The authorities
initially hesitated in tightening monetary policy, but when pressure on foreign exchange mounted,
decisive step. were taken during the second half of 1991 to contain aggregate demand and restore
macroeconomic balance to the econormy. Money supply growth, which had been at an annual
rate of over 35 percent, was slowed; interest rates were liberalized and became positive in real
terms; and aggressive exchange rate policy resulted in a 35 percent real depreciation of the
Zimbabwe dollar between July and September, 1991.



-4 -
11.       Despite the emergence of a number of stabilization problems, there were indications
that structural improvements were taking hold in the Zimbabwean economy in 1991. Investment
increased by 8 percent in real terms, to reach 22 percent of GDP, and non-traditional exports,
such as horticultural products, textiles and garments, showed a significant increase in real terms,
albeit from a ralatively low base. However, the supply response was obviously less than
expected, with GDP growth of only 3.6 percent. Continued investment licensing as well as
excessive regulation of marketing and pricing were recognized as impediments to reaping the full
benefits of foreign trade liberalization and fiscal reform. It was also felt that further action
needed to be taken to shield the poor and other vulnerable groups from transitional hardships,
pardy to improve the longer term sustainability of the reform program.
D. Dealing with Drought in 1992
12.       Unfortunately, Southern Africa was hit in 1992 by the worst drought in living
memory. For Zimbabwe, which was affected particularly badly, the drought negated the
economic benefits arising from the policy adjustments undertaken in 1991, and those to be
implemented during 1992. If anything, there wa. a real possibility that the reform program
would be suspended because its stabilization elements were seen to be aggravating the negative
impact of the drought. That the program was continued, and even strengthened in places, despite
the adverse economic circumstances, provides an important indication of the Government's strong
commitment to adjustment.
13.      As a result of the drought, Zimbabwe's GDP fell by 8 percent in 1992, leaving the
country in its worst economic recession since Independence. Agricultural sector output fell by
over 40 percent, with maize and sugar production falling by over 75 percent. Manufacturing
investment and output also fell due to the combined effect of agricultural input shortages, a
drastic decline in domestic demand, shortages of power and water, and the tight credit policies
implemented to contain inflation and help support the balance of payments. However, inflation
continued at very high levels (35-40 percent), fueled by agricultural commodity shortages and the
Government's decision to pass on to consumers the increases in producer and import prices for
agricultural foodstuffs. Only the price of maize meal, which is the country's staple food, and
bread, remained subsidized. Real incomes and consumption fell, as wages did not keep pace with
the much higher cost of living. Communal farmers, whose crop failed totally, were wiped out
financially. Nearly 3 million cattle died or had to be slaughtered because of lack of grazing. In
the formal sector, about 30,000 workers were temporarily or permanendy laid off, particularly
in the commercial farming sector, sugar industry and textile companies. In response,
Government was forced to rapidly expand its free food distribution and water supply schemes.
At the end of 1992, about 4 million people - equivalent to 40 percent of Zimbabwe's population -
were receiving free food, imposing a major burden on the budget. Total imports of maize alone
for the period 1992/93 will reach 2.3 million ions, amounting to over US $500 million of
additional foreign exchange requirements for a country that is normally a net exporter of food
grains.
14.       Because of the unprecedented need for food imports and the much lower ex.ports of
agricultural products, external balances deteriorated sharply during 1992. The current account
deficit rose to 17 percent of GDP. As a result, the accumulation of external debt was much
higher than anticipated, rising from US $2.5 billion at the end of 1990 to about US $3.1 billion
at the end of 1992, equivalent to about 60 percent of GDP. The fiscal deficit, which was
projected to be reduced further, in line with the Framework for Economic Reform, exceeded the
program targets by two percentage points of GDP in FY91/92, and the budgeted government



deficit for 1992/93 is three percent of GDP larger than was anticipated. However, in both cases,
this is more than accounted for bv unforeseen drought relief and recovery expenses. Indeed,
without these expenditures, the central government deficit for both flscal years would have been
below the targeted levels of 6-7 percent of GDP. Similarly, the combined operating losses of the
parastatal sector in FY91/92 were significantly larger than the target set under the program.
However, this was the direct result of the increased costs arising from the emergency maize
imports by the Grain Marketing Board.
15.       As mentioned earlier, monetary and credit policy remained tight, and interest rates
remained around 35 percert. After the major depreciation of the Zimbabwe dollar in the third
q.arter of 1991, the nominal exchange rate was held constant during 199- ,artly to dampen ths
inflat;onary pressures associated with the large food imports. Large Lnounts of bileteral and
multilateral financial support were committed and disbursed during 1992 to assist Zimbabwe in
its drought relief and recovery program and to ensure that its economic reform program remained
on track. In June 1992, the Bank approved an IDA Credit of US $150 million for an Emergency
Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project. The IMF's Extended Fund Facility was replaced with
parallel Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility/EFF arrangements in September 1991.
16.       Unfortunately, actual disbursements of external assistance during 1991 and 1992 fell
short of what was anticipated, due so administrative problems and the fact that most assistance
is provided for OGIL/ERS imports which fell as a result of depressed private sector activity.
This strained Zimbabwe's foreign exchange reserves and delayed some aspects of the drought
relief and recovery program. Shortfalls in the disbursement of foreign assistance, and hence the
associated avwlability of counterpart funds to the Government, also created a need for
Government to borrow more of its financial requirements locally. This exacerbated the shortage
of domestic credit for th3 private sector and, in turn, limited imports and thus the disbursement
of balance of payments assistance.
. Status of adjustment at the End of 1992
17.       Despite the serious economic and social difficulties created by the devastating
drought, Zimbabwe's structural adjustment program remained on couise during 1992. Import
Uberalization proceeded in line with program targets, with the Export Retention Scheme rate
being raied from 15 to 25 percent in June 1992, and 35 percent in January 1993. Together with
the OGIL list amounting to 15 percent of imports, up to 50 percent of imports were effectively
free of licensing at the beginning of 1993. A market for import licenses derived from ERS
entitlement was created, effectively establishing a secondary market in which import entitlements
were traded at an initial premium of 50 percent. However, by early 1993, the premium had
dropped to 20-25 percent as a result of greater ERS availability, a further 15 percent depreciation
of the Zimbabwe dollar between December 1992 and February 1993, and lower overall demand
for foreign exchange resulting from the prevailing economic recession.
18.       Decontrol and adjustment of prices proceeded more quickly than targeted.
Additional price increases were granted for many parastatals, and agricultural producer prices
were raised dramatically to provide extra incentives for the 1992/93 crop and the recovery of
agricultural sector. For example, during 1992, ths, producer price for white maize was increased
by 235 percent, wheat 130 percent, cotton 119 percent, milk 26 percent, and soya beans 90
percent. Moreover, for most commodities, these new producer prices were set as floor prices
with marketing agencies having the flexibility to negotiate higher prices with producers, if and



-6 -
when appropriate. Cabinet approval for price increases is now confined to only three
commodities: maize meal, vegetable oil and some fertilizer compounds.
19.       As for budgetary policy, significant real cuts in non drought-related expenditures
have been effected during the 1992'93 fiscal year. Whereas the social sector expenditure
programs are being relatively protected, major cuts are being made in the public wage bill. In
a Cabinet reshuffle, the number of government ministries was reduced from 23 to 19 and the civil
service will be reduced by an additional 5,000 posts by June 1993. This civil service reduction
is ahead of schedule. Progress was also made in strengthening vital parts of the civil service
through the introduction of selective allowances to retain people with important skills. Delays
in grain Imports resulted in overall PSE losses being Z$315 million for the July to December
1992 period, well below the ceiling of IMF program ceiling of Z$662 million. For FY92193 as
a whole, overall PSE losses are now expected to be very close to the program ceiling of Z$338
million.
20.       As mentioned above, Government's successful drought relief program created a
major burden on public resources, both in terms of budgetary expenses and manpower needs.
This has meant that specific programs dealing with the social dimensions of adjustnent received
less attention than originally expected. In particular, the arrangements for the administration of
the Social Development Fund, which was set up to finance various SDA programs, were not
completed, thereby holding up financing of this component by the African Development Bank.
Nevertheless, an effective program for exempting the poor from school fees was introduced in
1992, as well as an appropriate income threshold established for the exemption of health fees.
Partial subsidy of maize and bread prices was continued, and food-for-work programs were
significantly expanded for those put out of work as a result of the drought or the transition
towards greater economic efficiency.
21.       Given the good progress with Zimbabwe's structural adjustment program, the second
tranche of Bank's first SAL/IDA Credit was released in November, 1992. Zimbabwe was
granted a waiver on the fiscal deficit target and the overall public sector enterprise loss target on
the grounds that these two second tranche release conditions would have been more than met had
it not been for Government's unexpectedly large drought relief and recovery expenditures.
F. The Next Phase of Adjustment
22.       The fundamental objective of economic reform in Zimbabwe continues to be the
improvement of living conditions, especially for the poorest segments of society. This means
generating sustained higher economic growth and increasing real incomes as a basis for creating
employment and maintaining social sector programs. In order to achieve this primary objective,
the economy needs to be more competitive and productive. This entails moving away from a
highly regulated economy to one where market forces are allowed to play a more decisive role,
while concurrently taking steps to alleviate any transitional social hardships which may arise.
23.       Despite the important structural changes introduced during 1991 and 1992,
investment remains low. This is partly the result of the recession caused by the drought, but also
because of the relatively high interest rates prevailing since 1991. Moreover, many in the private
sector have been waiting for further confirma.;on that the adjustment program will be continued,
if not intensified, despite the country's current economic difficulties. There is thus a real risk
that new investment wIll not materialize unless Govermment moves forward aggressively in those
policy areas considered essential for a rapid supply response and the restoration of growth. There



-7 -
is full agreement between Government and the Bank that the following four areas will need
special emphasis in the next phase of the adjustment program. First, deregulation of the
domestic economy needs to be accelerated. Steps need to be taken to more quickly reduce the
cost of doing business in Zimbabwe and to facilitate investment, both local and foreign. This will
entail changes In the operations of the Zimbabwe Investment Center, over and above the
improvements made during 1991/92 when the Center was made into a one-stop office. In
particular, investment Liensing requirements need to be relaxed fi'rther and provisions for the
remittance of profits and dividends liberalized. Besides investment, agricultural marketing will
also need to be further deregulated. Second, provisions for exporters need to be improved to
regain export growth in the wake of the drought. This will need to include firther expansion of
the license-free import system in line with program targets, as well as a reduction of the fiscal
burden on exporters. Third, structural reforms need to be implemented to improve the efficiency
of public sector enterprises. Although price increases enabled public enterprises to contain their
financial losses during 1991/92, limited progress was achieved in improving their operational
efficiency. Steps need to be taken that will enable these mnterprises to improve their financial
performance without resorting to excessive price increases, which would negatively affect the
supply response. Selective privatization will need to be considered. Finally, measures to shield
the poor and vulnerable groups from transitional difficulties need to be strengthened, wherever
possible, to maintain popular support for the Government's reform efforts. As the drought has
inflicted enormous pain on the population at large, the provision of effective social services, in
addition to a quick recovery of the economy, will be vital.
H. BANK'S ASSLEANCE PROGRAM
A. Bank Strategy
24.       During most of the 1980s, Bank activity in Zimbabwe was limited due to the
direction of the country's macro-economic policies. Landing was confined to those sectors where
agreement existed about policy and success was possible in the prevailing macroeconomic
environment, i.e., health and family planning, urban development, infrastructure, and smallholder
agriculture. The Bank's strategy for dealing with the macro-policy constraints was to focus on
economic and sector analysis to foster greater awareness of the need for broad-based structural
adjustment to generate growth. This strategy was effective, as the Bank's economic and sector
work dsd help define the Government's policy agenda, and provided the impetus for the
Government's eventual decision to move towards a liberalization of the economy.
25.       Since Zimbabwe embarked on a program of structural adjustment in 1991 the Bank's
strategy has been to support the Government In the timely execution of the adjustment
progrm  trough all available mean  - lending, economic and sector work and alo
coordnatdon. The basic objectives of the Bank's assistance program, are: (a) more rapid
economic growth through a regeneration of private investment; (b) an equitable pattern of
development through support to communal farmers, and through fostering small scale and
informal enterprises; (c) efficient infrastructure and public services in both rural and urban areas;
(d) sustained investment in human resources and minimal social costs of adjustment; and (e)
effective conservation and management of the environment.
26.       The level of Bank support and the share of adjustment lending in total lending depend
on the pace and scope of reform. Provided Zimbabwe continues with structural adjustment, it
was anticipated that the Bank's lending program would triple, from about US$220 million during



FY86-90 to just over US$700 million during FY91-95. About a third of these resources was
expected to be available on IDA terms, as Zimbabwe was declared IMA eligible in August 1991.
By lowering exports and increasing borrowing, the drought of 1992 has increased Zimbabwe's
debt service ratio and qtrained creditworthiness at a time when additional external finance is vital
for the success of structural adjustment. Without large inflows of external resources on
concessional terms during 1993 and 1994 there would inevitable be a significant fall in per capita
consumption and future growth would be undermined by the lack of investment goods.
B. Lending Program and Economic and Sector Work
27.       Macro-economic managernent and structural adjustment for the January 1992 to
June 1993 period is being supported under SAL I (IBRD/IDA blend financing FY92). The
second phase of the program will be supported by the proposed SAC II (FY93) It is planned that
the third phase be suppo.ed by SAL III (FY95). The design of the third phase will draw on the
results of planned economic and sector work. Tbe Country Economic Memorandum (FY94)
will include a poverty assessment, explore future sources of economic growth, and evaluate
options for ongoing reforms. The Public Expenditure Review (FY95) will make an important
contribution to restructuring and downsizing the public sector.
28.       The Bank's proposed project lending program for the next 3 years is broader thin
in the past. It is proposed that, as structural adjustment is implemented, project lending for social
and physical infrastructure and smal!-scale farming be continued and that there be additional
lending for other sectors that are also critical for the longer term supply response of the economy,
e.g. small scale industries and telecommunications.
29.      In agriculture, the current strategy is to continue assisting the smallholder sub-sector
while paying special attention to the expansion of export-oriented activities in the sector as a
whole. The Agricultural Sector Memorandum (FY91) identified a strategy which calls for
policy and institutional reforms, including market and price liberalization and for greater
involvement of the private sector in the provision of agricultural services; viable land
redistribution and resettlement; and increased investment in small scale technology development
to improve smallholder productivity. The Bank's strategy is to encourage rapid adoption and
implementation of these recommendations through SAC II as well as project lending. Tbrough
the Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project (FY89), the Bank began to address the
issue of targeted ass:swance to small scale farmers. The proposed Agricultural Services Project
(FY94) will address some of the other critical issues listed above and technical support will be
provided to strengthen the government's analytical capacity to formulate and implement
agricultural liberalization.
30.      In the forestry sub-sector, the Forest Resources Management and Development
Project (FY90) aims at promoting conservation of indigenous forests and the environment as well
as sustairing the production of fuelwood by promoting tree planting in the communal areas;
improving forest management and control and improving commercial timber exploitation. IThe
Forestry Sub-Sector Review, currently under way, will identify a strategy for further
strengthening the Bank's involvement in the sector and will be a major element of the Bank's
strategy for ensuring sound environmental management. The proposed Wildlife Conservation
and Environmental Conservation Project (FY9SR) will promote conservation through the
introduction of sustainable wildlife utilization in Zimbabwe's farming systems. The project is to
facilitate better exploitation of Zimbabwe's large tourism potential in an environmentally
sustainable manner.



-9-
31.       In Industry and mining, the Bank's objective is to encourage further removal of the
anti-export bias and support increased, efficient Investment. The role of the structural adjustment
program, supported by SAL I and this proposed SAC n, is obviously vital in achieving this
objective. Given the major role assigned to the private sector, the Bank and IFC have
collaborated in the preparation of a joint Private Sector Assssment (FY93) which has helped
determine lending and sector work priorities. Building on the experience of the first Small Scale
Enterprise Project (FY85) and on the Informal Sector Report (FY92), the small and
microenterprise sector will be assisted by the Small and Micro Enterprise Development Project
(FY94). This project will diversify assistance in this sub-sector to non-farm rural activides and
specifically address the needs of the informal sector. The project will support firther reform of
the regulatory system currently constraining small scale and informal sector activity, improve
credit access, training, and business services.
32.       In the eneg  sub-sector, the Bank's strategy is to continue its present lead role In
promoting efficient capital investment, and improving operational and financial efficiency,
particularly of ZESA. While hydro-electric power will continue to be a major source of energy
in the future, the recent drought has revealed a need to upgrade and improve the performance of
thermal power stations as well as tap into the excess of power existing in the sub-region. The
Integrated Energy Strategy (FY92) identified the next least-cost investment projects, and
broadened the dialogue on energy issues to include demand management, energy conservation,
pricing policy, procurement and storage of liquid fuels, renewable energy promotion, and
institutional development. The proposed Power m  Project (FY94) will finance improvements
at the Hwange coal-fired production plant and will be followed by a Power Generation and
Eneg Efficiency Project (FY96).
33.       The Bank's assistance to infrastructure will focus on tackling major policy,
institutional and other constraints to successful economic adjustment. Thus far the Bank has
focused with some success on highways, railways, and low-cost housing. There have been two
projects in the roads sub-sector and a Second Railways Project (FY91)and a Second Urban
Development Project (FY91) were recently approved. Under these projects, considerable
progress has been made with respect to institutional and policy issues. Further assistance to the
infrastructure sector is proposed to address pressing constaints, including a greater participation
of the private sector in the provision of infrastructure services. The Telecommunications
Project (FY95) will address supply constraints and institutional problems with regard to
communications. On the basis of the ongoing Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Review, a
Rural Conimunity Infrastructure Project is programmed for FY96. This project will provide
a vehicle for a sustained improvement in rural infrastructure by supporting capacity building at
the local government level. Tourism infrastructure will be upgraded through the Wildlife
Conservation and Tourism Infrastructure Project (FY95), already mentioned. In all these
areas, Bank assistance will support policy reform and fund needed investment.
34.       Within the human resources sector, the Bank's proposed strategy with respect to
family planniog and health care is to: (a) assist Zimbabwe in sustaining the present trend
towards a rapid decline in population growth; (b) support Government's ongoing efforts to
strengthen the health care system; and (c) improve both the efficiency of delivery and cost
recovery. The Fandly Health H (FY91) project has been designed to make a contribution in all
of these areas. A follow-up project in FY93 dealing with Sexually Transnltted   fections, will
assist Government to implement its STD control program. In the education sub-sector, the
objectives have been to: (a) strengthen management and institutional systems; (b) improve the
equity and efficiency of resource utilization in order to increase learning achievements throughout



- 10-
the country; and (c) encourage further resource mobilization, especially from non-Governmental
sources. The Education Sector Memorandum (FY92), which deals Inter alha with the issues
of learning achievements and cost recovery in a tighter fiscal environment, sets a policy agenda
along these lines.
C. Areas Of Specdal Operational Interest
35.       Povert remains widespread in Zimbabwe. In the communal farming areas, poor
quality land, lack of Inputs and high population density have contributed to low income levels.
In urban areas, employment opportunities have failed to expand as rapidly as the labor force.
An unemployment rate of about thirty percent has left many school leavers and others in the
urban areas below the poverty line. To better understand the nature and causes of poverty in
Zimbabwe, a Povty Profile is currently being prepared. To help design and implement a
development strategy which will more effectively reduce poverty, a Poverty Assessment is
planned as part of the Country Economic Memorandum for FY94. In order to broaden
participation in the economy and expand employment, the proposed SAC 1I will directly address
issues relating to barriers to new entrants and excessive controls on the informal sector. The
Small and Micro Enterprise Development Project will help small businesses break into the
economy and get the financing and other assistance they need. The proposed Agricultural
Services Project and a future project on land use management would help provide services to
the communal areas, to the new small commercial farmers, and to resettled areas.
36.       For the last twenty-five years the private sector has operated in a highly controlled
and restricted environment. As a result of the policies implemented under the adjustment
program and supported by SAL I and SAC n, there will be more freedom for the private sector,
but also more competition and less protection. The vrogram includes policy reforms needed to
allow market forces to play a bigger role and to free the private sector to be the engine of growth
in the economy. This proposed SAC I is explicitly designed to support the expansion of private
sector investment, exports, and increased private sector activity in agricultural marketing and
processing.
37.       Environmental preservation is being directly supported by the Bank through (i) work
with Government to develop sustainable land use policies and programs, (ii) the on-going
Forestry Sector Study, (iii) assisting the Government In writing its NEAP, and (iv) the Wildlife
Conservation project.
D. Cooperation with Multilaterals and Bilaterals
38.       During 1992, there were meetings of the Zimbabwe Consultative Group in February
and December. Bilateral donors have expressed strong support for Zimbabwe's adjustment
efforts and have already provided substantial financial support for economic reform and for
drought relief and recovery. Donors are firmly committed to provide substantial support again
in 1993 (see paragraph 67). Parallel financing for the adjustment program has come from the
EEC, the U.K., USAID, SIDA, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and DANIDA.
39.       The IMF is also providing strong support for Zimbabwe's adjustment program. Fund
and Bank staff worked together closely on the design and implementation of the program, and
with Government in preparing a Policy Framework Paper which was presented to the Committee
of the Whole in August. After a number of years without a Fund program, the Government and
the IMP reached agreement on an Extended Fund Facility in January 1992. In September 1992



- I1 -
this was replaced by parallel EFF/ESAF facilities over three years. The first review of this
program was discussed and approved by the IMF Board on May 19, 1993. The initiatives to be
supported under SAC 11 are fully consistent with the IMP's program in Zimbabwe.
40.       Bank staff have also coordinated closely with IPC in the formulation of Zimbabwe's
economic reform program. Proposals for the deregulation of the country's investment regime
were based largely on recommendations made by FIAS. IFC already holds a substantial
investment portfolio in the country, and is set to increase its operations as the economy is further
liberalized. Moreover, IFC staff are assisting Government in the total or partial privatization of
some of its parastatals, as well as the design of a scheme to divest public sector share holding in
mixed-ow'lership companies to small indigenous investors.
41.       The Bank has also collaborated with the African Development Bank in Zimbabwe.
This collaboration has grown stronger during the adjustnent process, as the ADB has provided
an adjustment loan of about the same size as the Bank's first adjustment operation, and has
provided direct funding for the SDA component of the program.
II. PHASE 11 OF SUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
42.       In response to the depressed economic situation in the country, phase two of
Zimbabwe's Structural Adjustment Program focuses on generating a more rapid supply response,
while continuing efforts to restore macroeconomic stability and shield the poorer segments of the
population from the negative transitional affects arising from adjustment. Stabilization continues
to be important, but the central fbcus of this second phase of policy reform is a combination of
trade reform to support exports, deregulation to facilitate an increase In private investment, and
agricultural marketing and price reform to broaden private sector involvement and competition.
A. PoUcy Actions for 1993 and 1994
43.       The specific policy actions that will constitute the second phase of structural
adjustment in Zimbabwe are oudined below and summarized in the attached policy matrix (Annex
I). They consist of policy actions to be taken between January 1993 and June 1994. The second
phase of structural adjustment is in line with Government's original S year program by continuing
trade liberalization at the pace anticipated, strengthening deregulation, and returning to the
planned schedule for reducing the fiscal deficit and losses by public sector enterprises.
44.       Trade poicy reform. The goal for trade policy reform continues to be the
liberalization of the trade regime in order expand exports and to ensure the smooth and effidient
utilization of scarce foreign exchange resources. This will be facilitated by the move to a unified,
market-based fbreign exchange system, with modest, tariff-based import protection, by 1995.
In order to promote more rapid export growth while continuing to liberalize imports, Government
is increasing the retention rate and the flexibility of the Export Retention Scheme (ERS),
improving duty drawback provisions, reducing taxes on capital goods and improving export credit
facilities.
45.       Whereas the OGIL system was originally chosen by Government as the vehicle to
move towards a market-based foreign exchange system, emphasis is now being shifted to a rapid
expansion of the ERS system because of its strong incentive to the export sector as well as its



- 12 -
flexibility, in terms of the wide range of goods that can be imported through tae ERS, and its
market orientation. As mentioned before, an official market in import licenses derived from ERS
entitlement was established at the beginning of 1993, and the permissible uses of ERS funds was
expanded to include selected invisibles (export promotion activities, technology licensing etc).
Government has announced that the ERS rate has been increased to 50 perct from April 1,
1993, and has indicated that this rate will be further increased to at least 60 percent by
January 1994 (condition for 2nd tranche release). Direct allocations of foreign exchange will
be phased out over the next 18 months as ERS is increased. The efficiency of the ERS market
will be improved either by moving to a system in which export retentions are held in foreign
exchange or by allowing importers to hold ERS entidement in passbooks, the way exporters can,
and permitting trade in actual ERS entitlements (condition of effectiveness).
46.       The current exemption from surtax and Import tax of capital good Imports for
projects approved by the Zimbabwe Investment Center has been extended to all investments.
Moreover, to facilitate small scale and indirect exporters, a product-specific flat-rate duty
drawback system will be introduced for common export items, not later than December 31,
1993. Under this scheme, the GOZ will establish average duty drawback rates for individual
product categories expressed as a percentage of FOB value of exports. Tnese drawback rates will
be estimated from average input and cos. data, and the tariffs that apply to these inputs. This
additional duty drawback scheme will complement the inward-processing rebate system introduced
in August 1992, which provided medium and large scale exporters with duty-free access to
imported material.
47.       Adequate export credit is being provided to ensure that exporters are not
disadvantaged by temporarily high domestic interest rates. This is being achieved by the Reserve
Bank operating a pre- and post-shipment export financing scheme and by allowing exporters to
borrow off-shore at foreign interest rates in exchange for assuming the full foreign exchange risk
for their loans.
48.       Investment deregulation. To facilitate investment and provide entrepreneurs with
increased flexibility to respond to opportunities and competitive pressures, investments made
with "own foreign exchange funds", including ERS entitlement, are no longer subject to
Invstment sanctioning. Such investments no longer require any sanctioning from the Zimbabwe
Investment Centre, outside of the normal clearance for compliance with environmental, health
and safety standards. This constitutes a major departure from past practice, as only investments
requiring a direct allocation of foreign exchange will continue to require ZIC sanctioning. Even
this category of investment will disappear once a full market-based foreign exchange system is
established. To reduce uncertainty on the part of investors, the Government has also identified
a short list of industries and sub-sectors for which a specified minimum level of local share
holding is required.
49.       In order to further encourage foreign investment, Government now allows automatic
and unrestricted remittance of after-tax dividends acruing to any foreign investment made
in Zimbabwe after May 1, 193, provided such dividends are remitted through the ERS market.
Foreign investment made after September, 1979, is eligible for unrestricted repatriation of the
foreign exchange Injected as capital In the project, provided the ERS market is used for
repatriation. These changes, together with the freedom from investment sanctioning, put new
foreign investment in Zimbabwe in a regulatory environment similar to that of competing
countries.



- 13 -
50.       While it Is Government's intention to also frev the repatriation of after-tax dividends
for investments made prior to May 1, 1993, the implementation of this will be phased to ensure
that externa balances remain sustainable. To concurrently encourage exports, this phasing has
begun by allowing export-oriented firms to repatriate an increased share of after-tax dividends
through the ERS market, and allowing firms that increase exports to repatriate capital.
Restrictions on the repatriation of capital gains will also be phased out as the balance of payments
improves. Meanwhile, restrictions on the interest which can be earned on corporate blocked
funds within the domestic economy have been removed for blocked funds created by
disinvestment ater May 1, 1993.
51.       Agriculttral market reform. During the past 18 months, Government has begun
significant reform of agricultural marketing and pricing, to improve the efficiency of the
parastatal marketing boards as well as increase the role of the private sector in agricultural
marketing and processing. Government will continue with these reforms by removing the
marketing boards' monopoly, and eliminate all remaining price controls and regulations impeding
private sector participation in these activities. The Government has decided on the following
agricultural marketing and price reform measures for the next six months:
*  All farmers will be allowed to sell maize offtake to any local individual or firm and
all firms and individuals, with the exception of designated large commercial millers,
will be allowed to buy maize from any domestic source (condition for second
tranche release). The exclusion of designated milling companies constitutes a
transitional step in the process towards full liberalization of the maize market. It
stems from the concern on the part of Governent that existing large milling
companies, together with a few large maize growers, would be able to exercise
excessive power in the maize market. The risk of this happening will decrease over
time as more private milling companies are established.
3  The current marketing and processing monopoly of the Cotton Marketing Board
(CMB) will be abolished and unrestricted entry of private firms at all stages of the
cotton marketing and processing chain will be allowed (condition for second
tranche release).
*  The authority of the Dairy Marketing Board (DMB) to grant licenses for new entry
in dairy processing and marketing will be transferred to an appropriate authority, and
unrestricted entry of private firms wDI be allowed, subject to health certification
(condition for second tranche release).
* Slaughter quotas imposed by the Department of Veterinary Services on abattoirs will
be eliminated, in order to facilitate further participation of the private sector in meat
processing (condition for second tranche release).
52.       Transport Dergulation. In order to promote the formation and expansion of new,
small scale transport operations, the Government, has decided to focus goods ransport
regulations on vehicle road worthiness, traMc safety, and Insurance coverage. Implementing
this requires a change in the Motor Transport Act and hence cannot be completed before October,
though the draft legislation has already been prepared. (submission of legislation to this effect
Is a condition for second tranche release).



-14-
53.       Macroeconomic Management. Government will maintain sound and sustainable
macroeconomic management, in the context of the ongoing IMF program. This includes
containing the central government deficit for PY92/93 to Z$3.1 billion (equal to 9.5 percent of
GDP), and submitting to Parliament a PY93/94 budget reflecting a deficit of less than 6 percent
of GDP (condition for effectiveness). This also includes keeping the combined losses of public
sector enterprises to Z$350 million for FY92/93 (about I percent of GDP) and introducing
measures to keep such combined losses below Z$150 million for FY93/94. Whereas the
Government's FY93/94 budget will not be presented to Parliament until the last week of July,
1993, its details will be worked out and agreed in the context of the PFP and IMF program
during June 1993. Monetary and exchange rate policy will also continue in accordance with the
ongoing program agreed with the IMP, to reduce the rate of inflation, promote exports, and
maintain a viable balance of payments position.
54.       Public Sector Management. As mentioned earlier, important steps were taken by
Government during the first phase of its structural adjustment program to improve the financial
performance of the public enterprise sector. The main objective has been to reduce the combined
losses of the public enterprises through a program of tariff and price adjustments. Such
adjustments were made for all major enterprises, i.e. the National Railways of Zimbabwe, the
Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority, Air Zimbabwe, the National Oil Company of Zimbabwe,
the Posts and Telecommunicatio&s Corporation, the Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company, Grain
Marketing Board, Dairy Marketing Board, Cotton Marketing Board and the Cold Storage
Commission. These enterprises account for more than 90 percent of the losses of the public
enterprise sector. Improved financial performance by the National Railways, the National Oil
Company, and the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation reduced the combined losses of
the public enterprise sector from about Z$600 million in FY90/91 and FY91/92 to an expected
Z$350 million in FY92/93. The improvement would have been larger and sooner but for poor
financial performance, by the Electricity Supply Authority, the Grain Marketing Board and the
Cotton Marketing Board as a direct result of the drought, i.e. the non-availability of cheap hydro-
electric power and the high cost of imported food grains and cotton. Recent increases in power
tariffs and the phase-out of emergency imports and maize and cotton subsidies should, however,
bring down the losses of these three enterprises in FY93/94.
55.      In addition to continued, regular price adjustments, there is an urgent need to
improve the operational efficiency of the public enterprise sector during the second phase of the
adjustment program. Efficiency enhancement programs are to focus on Air Zimbabwe, the
Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority, the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, and the
Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company. The National Railways has already started a reform
program supported by an IBRD loan. Efficiency programs for the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply
Authority and the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation are also being prepared in the
context of upcoming IBRD operations. A restructuring study for Air Zimbabwe has been started
with funding from the Bank's IDF resources.
56.       Private sector participation in the various public enterprises is being actively
considered in the efficiency programs. IFC has been requested to assist in the full privatization
of Zimbabwe's cargo airline (Affretair) and Government is reviewing offers from the private
sector to build the proposed power interconnection line with South Africa. Similarly, private
sector involvement in Air Zimbabwe and the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation will be
considered. Government is particularly interested in increasing private sector share holding in
the Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company. During 1991/92, steel prices were increased
substantially to import parity, and nearly 800 ZISCO workers were laid off in order to improve



- 15-
the company's performance. However, foreign expertise and financing will be needed to
restructure ZISCO and improve its efficiency.
57.       During the next six months, restructuring/efficiency studies will be completed and
operating frameworks drawn up for the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority, Air Zimbabwe
and the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation. These operating frameworks, similar to that
already in place in the National Railways, set out agreements between Government and public
enterprise management concerning technical, operational and financial objectives; tariff policy;
investment strategy; areas of autonomy; and levels of public subsidy. The following measures
have either already been taken or will be taken in the next 6 - 12 months:
* A preliminary restructuring plan for the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority has
been prepared and restructuring/efficiency studies for Air Zimbabwe and the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation are underway.
*  An operating framework for the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority, including
a performance contract, will be finalized and implemented in July, 1993 (condition
for effectiveness).
* The restructuring/efficiency studies for a reform program for Air Zimbabwe and the
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation will be finalized, and operating
frameworks with performance contracts introduced for both enterprises by January
1, 1994 (condition for second tranche release).
*  A plan for improving ZISCO's overall performance will be prepared, including steps
that need to be taken to increase private sector participation, raise new investment
financing (if appropriate), and strengthen operational efficiency (condition for
second tranche release). In case private sector participation cannot be increased,
the plan would provide other alternative courses of action including, if necessary, the
closure of part of ZISCO's operations.
58.       To firther reduce the burden of civil service wages on the economy and help provide
the resources needed to grant more competitive rates of pay to key civil servants, the process of
downsizing the civil service will continue. A cumulative total of 13,000 dvil service posts will
have been abolished by June 1993. This is more than was originally anticipated in the
Government's 5-year Program. Equally important, restructuring of Zimbabwe's civil service is
currently underway to increase the efficiency of government operations, and training programs
are being expanded to assist civil servants in fulfilling their new role under the adjustment
program.
59.       To effectively support private sector efforts to expand investment, employment, and
exports, the public sector investment program will give top priority to basic infrastructure. To
ensure that information on public investment is readily available, the 1993/94 public sector
investment program will be published as an Annex to the 1993/94 Budget.
60.       Social Dimensions of Adjustment. As outlined earlier, Zimbabwe has coped well
with the adverse social effects caused by the drought. The very extensive drought relief program
provided maize to nearly half of Zimbabwe's population and crop packs to small scale farmers



- 16 -
to enable them to produce a crop for 1993. The challenge for Government in the next 6 - 12
months will be to refocus its social assistance program on those affected by the transitional
hardships of structural adjustment. This entails continuing a public works program and a better
targeted food subsidy program, in combination with the already existing programs previding
exemption of school and health fees for low income families. As the institutional framework for
exempting low income families from school and health fees is in place, no problems are
envisaged with the continuation of these arrangements. Exemption levels for these basic social
services will be reviewed regularly to keep pace with inflation. Efforts are also now underway
to assist those retrenched by the public and private sectors in establishing small businesses,
including training, with the support of non-governmental organizations and bilateral donors. This
is being financed through the Social Development Fund which has received funding frhm
government and the African Development Bank.
61.       Social programs more generally are to be supported through a restoration of the real
per capita recurrent expenditure by government on health and education in the FY93/94 budget
to the levels that prevailed in FY91/92 i.e. their pre-drought levels. Poverty in general is being
addressed through a combination of this investmnent in human resources, the growth-oriented and
:ience employment expansion policies which are central to the second phase of structural
adjustment and efforts to assist small enterprises, including small scale farmer.
B. Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects
62.       Macroeconomic prospects in the medium  term  depend critically on the
implementation of the second phase policy initiatives described above. Given reasonable rains,
these policy changes are expected to generate a stronger supply response. GDP is expected to
grow by about 7 percent in 1993 and then a further 6 percent in 1994 and 1995. Much of the
growth in 1993 is projected to come from the agricultural sector in response to the good rains
between November 1992 and April 1993. Growth in 1994 will be a combination of full
agricultural recovery and a regeneration of manufacturing and service sector growth as interest
rates fal and business confidence recovers. Sustained higher growth in the mid 1990s is expected
from increased investment and efficiency due to structural reform. With the drought over, and
the steepest public sector enterprise price increases implemented, it is anticipated that tight
monetary and fiscal policy will lower inflation from about 50 percent at the end of 1992 to the
mid 20s by the end of 1993.
63.       Exports are expected to grow, on average, by about 12 percent per annum during
the 1993-95 period, following the 5 percent decline in the volume of exports in 1992 as a result
of the drought. This growth is expected to result from a recovery of agriculture-related exports
in 1993 and 1994, and continued strong growth in non-traditional exports which expanded rapidly
during 1992 in response to the policy reforms introduced during the first phase of structural
adjustment. Non-drought related imports are expected to grow at about 7 percent per annum
between 1992 and 1995. As a result, the current account deficit as a percentage of GDP is
projected to return to its pre-drought !evel, falling from about 17.2 percent of GDP in 1992 to
about 6 percent of GDP by 1994 and 3 percent in 1995.
64.       Gross domestic investment is expected to reach about 23 percent of GDP in response
to the relaxation of controls, and as a result of a rebuilding of agricultural commodity stocks.
Total consumption is projected to grow by about I percent per annum, but the targeted decline
in public sector consumption would allow for modest growth of about 3 percent per annum in



- 17 -
private consumption. This would leave private consumption per capita virtually constant for 1993
and 1994, befbre beginning to rise at about 2 percent per annum during the second half of the
1990s.
65.       Naturally, future prospects are very heavily dependent on normal rainfall conditions
and the absence of any major external shock. The 1992/93 rainy season appears to be good, but
another major drought in 1993/94, for example, would not only directly lower domestic
production, but would cause the very large current account deficit to continue. This would fiurher
worsen Zimbabwe's debt service position and constrain the country's import capacity and growth
during the latter part of the 1990s. Similarly, a further downturn in metal prices, as occurred
during 1992, would depress mining and processed mineral exports, which are one of Zimbabwe's
major sources of foreign exchange.
C. The Need for External FUmance
66.       Additional external finance will be needed during the implementation of the reform
program, if investment is to be increased without an unacceptable decline in consumption and
living standards. This is particularly so as investment is import intensive. The balance of
payments projections, summarized in Table 2 of Annex HI, indicate that about US$3.1 billion
will be needed in foreign capital inflow between 1993 and 1995 (see Table 3 of A-nnex o). This
will require support from a wide range of multilateral, bilateral and commercial sources of
finance. However, a substantial share of the finance will need to be in the form of grants and
concessional long-term loans, in order to avoid excessive debt service payments in the mid 1990s.
Zimbabwe's long term debt service ratio rose from 22 percent in 1991 to 29 percent in 1992, but
is expected to fall to about 24 percent by 1995, provided the majority of finance made available
is provided on a long-term, concessional basis.
67.       Substantial amounts of foreign support for Zimbabwe's adjustment program have
already been committed, including structural adjustment loans and credits from the African
Development Bank and the World Bank. The ADB approved a Structural Adjustment Loan of
about US$165 million in December 1991 together with an African Development Fund (ADF) loan
of about US$7 million to support the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) program. 'Me
World Bank approved an IBRD Loan of US$125 million and an IDA Credit of SDR35.9 mil' .I-.
(US$50 million equivalent) in January 1992. Zimbabwe and the IMF agreed on a EFF/E Alt
program for about US$500 million over 3 years in September 1992. In addition, in June 1992,
the Ifternational Development Association (IDA) approved a Credit of SDR 109.5 million
(US$150 million) for the Zimbabwe Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project. 'Te
Credit provided Government with timely financial resources in support of its drought relief and
recovery program. Bilateral donors have also provided substantial support for Zimbabwe's
structural adjustment and for drought relief and recovery. The United States, in particular, has
provided a large amount of food aid to help Zimbabwe through this difficult time.



- 18-
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
68.       SAC U would support the implementation of the second phase of Zimbabwe's
structual adjustment program discussed above. Given good progress in the first phase of the
program and taking into account the effects of the 1992 drought, this support is appropriate and
In line with the Bank's assistance strategy for Zimbabwe.
Borrower, Credit Amount, and Coflnandng
69.       The Borrower for the proposed Credit is the Republic of Zimbabwe and the credit
amount proposed for this second phase of Zimbabwe's structural adjustment program is SDR 88.3
(equivalent to US$125 million). This amount is necessary to maintain the momentum of the
reform program. It is based on an overall external financing plan worked out with the
Government and IMF for 1993 and 1994, and complements the substantial amount of assistance
already pledged by donors during the Consultative Group Meeting in December 1992. Donors
intending to make significant cofinancing or parallel financing contributions include the ADB,
USA, UK, Sweden, Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, and the EEC.
70.       The relatively large allocation of IDA resources proposed for this operation is
justified, given Zimbabwe's much larger financial requirements as a result of the drought and the
associated deteric ation in its debt servicing capacity and per capita GDP. Attaching IBRD
resources to this quick-disbursing operation would further affect the country's short-term
creditworthiness which is already strained by significant commercial borrowing during the
drought as well as the country's current deep recession.
Tranching, Disbursement and Procurement
71.       The proposed Credit would be disbursed in two tranches. A first tranche of US$62.5
million (i.e. 50 percent of the Credit) is proposed would be available as soon as the Credit is
effective. The second tranche of US$62.5 million, to be released six to nine months later, would
be contingent upon satisfactory progress in implementing the overall program in addition to the
specific conditions listed below.
72.       The Credit would reimburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of ERS and
OGIL imports. The Government will establish a Special Account to provide up-front finance and
facilitate disbursements. The initial deposit into this Special Account will be US$30 million.
Procurement contracts exceeding US$2 million would be subject to international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Contracts below US$2 million would be
awarded on the basis of normal procurement procedures of the borrower, which have been found
acceptable under the first Structural Adjustment Operation. Moreover, pre-shipment inspection
has been in place since January 1992 to verify price, quantity and quality. Not more than 20
percent of the Credit will be used for the bulk purchase of foodstuffs or petroleum products.
Management and Monitoring of the Program
73.       The implementation of Zimbabwe's structural adjustment program is being moniored
by an inter-ministerial committee chaired by the Senior Permanent Secretary for Finance. This
committee makes periodic reports to the Senior Minister for Finance and proposes modifications
and "fine-uning" of the program over time. The committee is supported by a Monitoring and
Implementation Unit (MIU) within the Ministry of Finance. The MIU is now fully staffed and



- 19 -
is being supported by two groups of consultants; one for public sector enterprise reform and one
covering other key aspects of the reform program - trade liberalization, deregulation, fiscal and
monetary management and the social dimensions of adjustment. The MlU has regular
consultations with representatives from the business community and the labor unions.
74.       To increase the general understanding of the economic structural adjustment program,
Government has run a series of television and radio programs, and newspaper articles. To ensure
that the public continues to be well informed of policy and institutional changes, as and when
they are implemented, Government in now introducing a weekly rep .t in the local press,
detailing changes being introduced as part of the structral adjustment program.
Conditions for Effectiveness
The specific actions proposed as conditions for effectiveness all entail the enactment
c existing announcements or commitments which cannot be made effective until July, 1993.
They are:
i. Present to Parliament (at the end of July 1993) a FY93/94 budget reflecting a deficit
of less than 6 percent of GDP.
2. Improve the efficiency of the ERS market by either moving to a system in which
export retentions are held in foreign exchange, or by allowing importers to hold
passbooks and permitting trade in the actual ERS entitlements.
3. Introduce a framework, including a performance contract, for the operation of
Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA), acceptable to IDA.
4. Announce the specific and detailed agricultural reform measures set forth in
paragraph 23 of the attached Letter of Development Policy.
Conditions for Second Tranche Release
76.       The specific actions proposed as conditions for second tranche release are:
1. Increase the ERS rate to at least 60 percent.
2. Implement the agriculture marketing and processing reform measures for beef, dairy,
cotton and maize, as set forth in paragraph 23 of the Letter of Development Policy.
3. Finalize the restructuring/efficiency programs for Air Zimbabwe and the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation, and introduce operating frameworks with
performance contracts for both enterprises by January 1, 1994.
4. Prepare a plan for improving ZISCO's financial performance and efficiency, to be
agreed with IDA.
5. Submit a draft bill to Parliament removing route and commodity specific licensing
for goods transport, and focusing licensing regulations to vehicle road worthiness,
traffic safety and insurance coverage.



- 20-
V. BENEFTrS AND RISKS
77.       The principal beneflt of the reform program will be to increase private investment,
which Is critical to the achievement of the higher economic growth discussed above and the
diversiflcation of produedon and exports. Zimbabwe's potential for a quick acceleration of
investment, exports, GDP growth and a much needed increase in employment, is one of the best
on the African continent. The program would also create greater opportunities for Zimbabwe's
black population to participate in the formal and informal sectors of the economy.
78.       Trade policy reform will ensure the smooth and efficient utilization of scarce foreign
exchange resources and, by enabling Zimbabwe's business community to respond to the
incentives provided by the program, result in a significant increase in exports. Investment
deregulation will facilitate both domestic and foreign Investment and will provide entrepreneurs
with increased flexibility to respond to opportunities and competitive pressures. In particular,
new foreign Investment will be greatly encouraged by the automatic and unrestricted remittability
of after-tax dividends. Liberalization of agricultural pricing and marketing will serve to increase
the role of the private sector, improve productivity, and boost production and exports of
agricultural products. Transport deregulation will complement agricultural market reforms and
facilitate more rapid development of small scale enterprises. Together, these trade and regulatory
reforms will increase growth and expand employment opportunities. Public enterprise reform
will improve the policy environment under which these enterprises operate, will enhance their
efficiency, and will eventually result in the elimination of the large fiscal burden that public
enterprises present to the annual budget. Reduction of the fiscal deficit will increase business
confidence in the sustainability of macroeconomic management and make resources available for
increased private sector investment. Restoring per capita recurrent expenditure on education and
health to their FY 91192 levels, In real terms, will continue important investments in human
resources.
79.       As with any structural adjustment program, Zimbabwe's program carries a number
of risks. lhe two general areas of concern are: (i) the risk that planned policy reforms will not
be implemented in full and on schedule, and (ii) the possibility of continued adverse exogenous
factors. Public confidence in, and support for, the program could dissipate if benefits aren't
visible quickly. To ensure that the program is sustainable and to maintain widespread public
support, it is imperative that trade and regulatory policy reforms to generate a supply response
are not delayed. While Zimbabwe's capacity to implement and monitor a comprehensive
structmr  adjustment program continues to be limited, appropriate technical assistance has been
put in place to deal with this need. As mentioned earlier, consultants are currently working full-
time within the Government's Monitoring and Implementation Unit (MIU).
80.       Confidence In the program could be threatened if all anticipated measures are
implemented as planned, but continuing adverse exogenous factors prevent a return to economic
growth in 1993. As mentioned above, rainfall during the 1992/93 cropping season has been good
and the prospects for agricultural recovery are promising. However, a full recovery of the
agricultural sector, and particularly growth of agro-based exports, will require another good rainy
season in 1993/94. On the extnal front, the political situation in Mozambique, through which
much of Zimbabwe's trade flows, remains unsettled. Also, continued unrest in South Africa, one
of Zimbabwe's main trading partners, could adversely affect exports.



- 21 -
VI. RECOMMENDATION
81.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1993



- 22 -
ANNEX I
ZIMBABWE POLICY MATRIX
ArealOverall Reform Progam                              Proeress to the end of 1992                             Reform in 1993 and 1994
A. STRUCTURAL REFORMS
Trade Policy
Expand ERS and unrestricted OGIL until all goods are   ERS rate increased to 25 percent for Jan.-June 1992, 30  ERS rate increased to 50 percent from April 1 1993.
free from foreign exchange allocations by 1995.        percent for July-Dec. 1992 and 35 percent from January  lncreaze ERS rate to at least 60 percent from January
1993. Unrestricted OGIL was expanded to 20 perccnt of  1994 (Second Tranche). Improve the efficiency of the
imports early in 1993.                                 ERS market (Effectiveness).
Develop and implement an effective strategy for        Inward processing (bonded warehouse) system introduced  All capital good imports exempted from surtax and
improving export performance. This will include tariff  to allow imnporters to defer duty payments until inputs are  import tax. Allow exporters to borrow at foreign interest
improvements to duty relief provisions.                used.                                                  rate in exchange for assuming the foreign exchange risk.
Review the duty drawback system arrangements and offer
a commodity specific rate for selected export goods by
December 1993.
Rationalie the customs tariff and other taxes on imports  The minimum tariff increased to 10 percent in October,  Develop  and  implement an agreed strategy  for
to yield modest relatively uniform import protection by  1991.                                                rationalizing the structure of taxes on imports by 1995.
1995.
Deregulation
Streamline investment sanctioning by granting legal status  ZIC formally established by Parliament in September  Free from sanctioning aU investments not asking for an
to Zimbabwe Investment Center (ZIC) and then phase it  1992.                                                  allocation of foreign exchange, and have the ZIC focus
out as goods are frecd from import licensing.                                                                 on investor servicing and promotion. Allow repatriation
of alter tax profits, and capital, through the ERS market
by May 1, 1993. Develop an agreed small list of
activities reserved for domestic, indigenous or small scale
investors.
Relax agricultural marketing so the marketing boards are  Freedom to trade grain within regions 4 and 5. Since  Announce liberalization of agriculture marketing and
July 1992 announced prices for most commodities are    processing (Effectiveness). Remove GMB's monopoly



- 23 -
Area/Overall Reform Param                              Progress to the end of 1992                             Reform in 1993 and 1994
not monopolizing buyers and allow frec movement of al  floor prices and marketing boards are free to negotiate  in maize purchasing, and that of the CMB, DMB and
comunodities betwecn regions.                          higher prices with producers.                         CSC in purchase and processing (Second Tranebe).
Relax goods transport rgulations to inerase competition  Eliminated  tonnage  restrictions  on  transport of  Remove multiple pcrmit system, extend delicensingto aU
and efficiency.                                        agricultural goods. Removed licensing requirement for  sizes of trucks, and focus regulations on road worthiness,
trucks under 10 tons for agricultural and non-agricultural  safety, and insurance considerations (Second Tranche).
commodities.
Establish Committee on Deregulation, prepare and foDow  Drafted proposed amendments to Land Survey and Land  Refne the agenda for the Deregulation Committee and
a timetable to rvivew  wide array of regulations      Surveyors Act.                                         specify a timetable for review and action. Initially focus
constraining informal and small-scale development and to                                                     on (1) business licenses at local authority level, and (2)
relax them.                                                                                                  registration procedures for buskiess.  Expedite the
granting of title deeds in growth points.
Progressively remove price controls.                  Substantial price decontrol has been accomplished. Only  Continue with program to remove price controls so all
4 goods require Cabinet approval, 30 are underautomatic  controls are removed by 1995.
markup prices, I is under import parity.
B. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Fiscal Manapement
Progressively reduce the budget deficit so it is less than  Budget deficit was 9.1 percent of GDP for 1991192, but  Introduce a 1993/94 budget with a deficit of less than 6
5 permcnt of GDP by 1994/95, to ensure sustainability,  unexpected drought relief and recovery expenses were  percent of GDP (Effectiveness), an;, restore per capita
avoid arowding out the private sector and help contain  more than 2 percent of GDP. Budget for 1992/93 has a  recurrent health and education expenditures to lcvels that
aggregate demand.                                     deficit of 9.7 perent of GDP but unexpected drought-   prevailed in 1991/92.
related expenses are more than 4 percent of GDP. Total
Government expenditures is cut by 6 percent of GDP in
the 1992/93 budget.
Monetary Poliey
Maintain modest money grwth in line with targets      Moncy growth kept below inflation. Most interest rate  Continue monetary management program agreed with the
agreed with the IMF and increase market determination  controls removed and rates rose to 40 percent in 1992.  IMF to help contain inflation, overall demand and the
of interest rates.                                    Rediscount rate raised to 30 percnt.                   balance of payments deficit.



-24 -
ArewOverafl Reform Proaram                              Pom   to the end of 1992                                Reform in 1993 and 1994
Echanre got
To mantain an exchangerate regime which willcontiue    Real depreciation of 34 percea during thc first nine    Adhere to the policy of ecchangc rate managemn
the tesource shift in favor of export sectors, sustain  months of 1991, foDowed by real appreciation of 20    agreed with the IMP that is supporfive of the need to
eport competitiveness and prvide an anchor for price   perocnt till the end of 1992, and then a 15 percent real  expnd exports, generate a sustainable current accont
stability.                                             depredaton.                                            deficit and provide an anchor for pric, subility.
C. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Public Enteroise Reform
Reduce the combined operating losses of nine large rSls  Combined losses were still about Z$600 million for   Keep overall PSE losses for 1992193 to ZS350 million
to zero by FY94/95.                                    1991192, but more than half of this was due to the     and adopt an action plan to reduce PSE losses to less
drought-induced maize imnports by GMB. Power tariff    than Z$150 million for 1993194.
increased by 32 percent over the furst six months of 1992
and a further 80 pereat in the second half of 1992.
Postal tariffs increased by 25 percent (March) and
international telecommunications tariffs by 50 percent
(Feb).
Reform  operating environment of PSEs to improve       Cabinet approval no longer needed for price changes for  Finalize program of strutural reform for ZESA and
efficiency by concurrently increasing autonomy and     power to pass on cost increases from exchange rate     introduce an operating framework by July 1993
responsibility.                                        movements.   PrC  now  has autonomy to adjust          (Effectiveness).
intemnational tariffs  in  line  with  exchange rate
movaeents. Air Zinbabwe given autonomy to set its      Falize reform program for AirZim and PTC including
international air fares. From July 1992, floor producer  private sector participation and introduce an operating
prices introduced for most agricultural commodities, and  framework by January, 1994 (Seoond Tranche).
marketing bodies can negotiate higher prices.
Finliz  a plan for improving ZISCO'8 financial
Agrcultural Marketing Board Acts reformed in February  peformance and efficiency (Second Traaehe).
1991 to inrease autonomy and to make the relationship
within their parent ministry more transpanret.



-25 -
Ara/Overal Reform Proaam                                PrOmss to the end of 1992                               Refonm in 1993 and 1994
Civil Service Refonn:
Progressivly reduce the number of civil servants poss  7,204 posts abolished; 263 posts created during 91/92.  Abolsh a total of i3,000 posts by June 1993.
(excoluing education and halfth), to reach a targt of 25  4,445 staff actually retrancd.
percent (26,000) by 1995.
Correc structural/functional overlaps and duplications in  M rial structurs rorgoaized. Functional llocation  Acceleratethe funcdona reallocation roquired by the new
m tra oraization      OPations.                        and operational adjustments on-going with technical    ministeria organztion and  nstutina requiremts of
assistane from UNDP.                                   ESAP, and assess new staffing needs.
Publiec Sector Investment Proram (PSIP)
Implement a transparent system  of evaluation and      PSIP reduced fom 12.1 percent to 11.2 percent of GDP   Publish fth PSIP to paemit better analysis of trends and
systematic review of the PSIP to ensure that it srves the  from 1990/91 to 1992193.                           incrtase transparency.  Establish a mechanism  for
countuies devclpment needs well and is in line with                                                           deuailed annual cons     n on the PSIP  within
ovea fisca targets.                                    Reductions in defense and agricultural sectors' shares of  govenmmet and with the Bank, prior to finalization.
PSIP, increasc in social and infrastructure sectors.
Implemeat the 1992193 PSIP as planned. Prcpa  an
indcativc PSIP for FY93/94 for consultation with the
Bank.
C. THE SDA PROGRAM
Design and implement progams to minize the             Vulnerable groups getting maize under the food-for-work  Review existing arrangements and, where possible, adjust
cconomic costs of transitional unemploymnt and social  program and supplementary feeding for those under 8    them to more effectively taget the food subsidy program
rdsip. To include retaining, targeted subsidia and     years of age in communal areas. In the urban areas,    ater the 1993 crop season.
relief from cost recovery for the poor.               thae is a $4 subsidy/peson/month for those carning
below Z$200/month.                                     Expand job trig and employment creation programw
in association with NGOs.
No primary school fies being charged in rural reas. In
the urban areas, school fees in high density atra is   Continue to cnsur that applications for exemption from
$20/ter; and $70/tem in low density, but thoseearning  school and exam fe  ar processed quickly.
lcss than ZS400 are assisted from SDF. Fnc health care
prvided to those easning less than Z$400/month.        Contiue providg e health care to the poor. Explore
the possibility of a shatraf costs recovered being kept by
Job training and employmnt scheme establshed for       thos conecting.
those rechod.



- 26 -
ANNEX 11
June 3, 1993
ZIMBABWE - ECONOMIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAMME
Letter of Development Policy
Mr. Edward V.K. Jaycox
Vice President Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
1 .    The purpose of this letter is to inform you of the further measures we will take during 1993 and
the first part of 1994 to strengthen and deepen the economic structural adjustment process in
Zimbabwe. In view of the severe drought and the limited visible benefits from adjustment during
1992, we are particularly keen to press forward quickly with initiatives that will generate greater
investment and a more rapid expansion of production.
2.    As you know, the aim of the Zimbabwean Government in undertaking structural. adjustment is
to achieve and sustain higher economic growth and to reduce poverty. Only with more rapid
economic growth can the hopes of Zimbabweans for gainful employment and rising living
standards be achieved. Unfortunately, the drought has more than offset the growth- enhancing
effects of our structural adjustment programme since we began it in 1991. The drought has
resulted in GDP falling by about 8 percent and the balance of payment deficit widening to about
19 percent of GDP in 1992. This rise in the current account deficit is the combined result of
unprecedented food imports costing about US$550 million, to bridge the gap following the failure
of the 1992 crop, and lower agricultural exports. Unemployment rose as agricultural output fell,
manufacturing firms reduced production and service sector activities faced a smaller local market.
Real incomes and consumption both fell, as wages failed to keep pace with inflation.
3.    In spite of these difficulties, we have continued with our economic structural adjustment
programme and plan to stay the course. While drought related expenses prevented us from
reaching the agreed targets for overall fiscal deficit reduction and public sector enterprise (PSE)
losses, these targets were achieved if these drought related expenses are netted out. We have
implemented trade liberalization and other aspects of the programme as planned, or more quickly
than planned. We have reduced the number of civil service posts as planned and we have
decontrolled prices more rapidly than was originally anticipated. Moreover, we have brought
forward the planned changes to monetary policy and exchange rate so that they have made a
greater contribution to overall macroeconomic management. As indicated below, we now plan
to advance the pace of reform during 1993 to generate a more rapid supply response.
4.    It has become evident that we must do more to increase exports, investment and productivity, and
hence we are accelerating the trade policy and regulatory reform parts of our economic structual



-27 -
adjustment programme (ESAP). The drought has cut so deeply into the productive capital of
agriculture, that full recovery will take at least three years. Agricultural exports will be smaller,
and hence the need for non-agricultural exports will be greater. Second, by adding substantially
to Zimbabwe's national debt, the drought has adversely affected our import capacity into the mid
and late 1990s.
1. STRUCTURAL POLICY REFORMS
A.    Trade Policy
5.    Our goal for trade policy continues to be a unified, market-based foreign exchange system with
modest tariff-based import protection by mid-1995. A phased approach has been adopted to help
preserve macroeconomic stability and provide local frms with time to adapt. Too rapid removal
of import restrictions would be very destabilising if it were to lead to an unsustainable balance
of payments. Our approach has been to expand progressively the Open General Import License
(OGIL) and Export Retention Scheme (ERS), to reduce the relative importance of direct foreign
exchange allocation (DLMA) and to reduce the number of foreign exchange windows. Twenty
percent of imports are now on OGIL and the ERS rate has been increased to 50 percent. Most
raw materials are now on OGIL. Further import liberalisation will be achieved by increasing the
ERS as this approach will concurrently provide an extra market-based incentive to export and will
avoid the risk of an unsustainable balance of payments. With th's programme, all Zimbabwean
firms will have access to foreign exchange and face competition through the ERS market.
Furthermore, we are in the process of streamlining the operation of the ERS market to improve
's efficiency and have instituted a system whereby ERS entitlements are released to commercial
banks within 30 days of applications to the Reserve Bank if they meet all requirements.
6.    To support more rapid export growth, we are increasing the retention rate and the flexibility of
ERS. We established an official market in import licences derived from ERS entitlements and
expanded the possible uses of ERS funds to include selected invisibles at the beginning of 1993.
The ERS rate has been increased to 50 percent as of April 1, 1993 and will be further increased
to at least 60 percent by January 1994. Tbe specific modalities and mechanisms for the expanded
ERS remain to be finalised. We are exploring the possibility of converting to a system where
the export retentions are held in foreign currency. If this conversion is not made, we intend to
allow trade in actual ERS entitlements, with importers also being able to hold passbooks by July
1993.
7.    To preserve the balance between supply and demand, we are correspondingly reducing foreign
exchange availability on windows other than OGIL and ERS as trade liberalisation progresses.
The Domestic Local Market Allocation (DLMA) has been reducing overtime since the
introduction of OGIL and ERS. For the first half of 1993, the DLMA is 85 percent of what it
was for the second half of 1992. We expect at least a similar reduction in the second half of
1993. This will provide a substantial increase in the incentive to export and thereby expand the
available pool of foreign exchange. Beginning in February 1993, we have replaced the Export
Revolving Fund with a new facility - the Export Support Facility (ESF). The ESF caters for raw
material requirements for new and existing manufacturing exporters. Allocations will be against
confirmed orders. For the existing exporter, only the shortfall arising from inadequate ERS will
be met from this facility.



- 28 -
8.    All goods except those included on a short negative list will continue to be importable under
ERS. Furthermore, as already indicated ERS funds can be used for selected "invisible"
payments, including training, technical and professional fees, commissions, and business travel
and marketing expenses for export promotion. At the moment, these are met 50 per cent from
ERS. We are undertaking an exercise to review how the current system has been working since
these changes were made at the beginning of 1993. This review should enable us to determine
whether these invisibles should now be met by a higher percentage from ERS.
9.    The existing duty drawback system has come under increasing strain after the abolition of the
manufacturers' rebate and the introduction of an across the board minimum duty rate of 10% in
1991. The most severe problems with this system are the delays in refund of duty and tax caused
by both a lack of understanding on the part of exporters of the system and cumbersome
verification of import content procedures practiced by the Customs Department. In order to
improve the operation of the system, the Customs Department has embarked on an exporter's
education campaign regarding the claiming of duties paid under the duty drawback system. The
procedures followed are being revised with a view to simplifying them in order to achieve a
target refund period of 14 days from the date a claim is lodged.
10.   In addition, Government is currently exploring the use of averages in determining the imported
content of exports for duty drawback purposes. Under such a system, the rates of payment will
be estimated averages arising from input and cost data and the tariffs for duty on these inputs.
Our Department of Customs has started on the exercise, with the assistance of the UNDP funded
consultants working with the Monitoring and Implementation Unit. We intend to introduce a flat-
rate duty drawback for some commodities by December 1993.
11.   An Inward Processing rebate, which allows exporters to import their raw material requirements
without payment of duty, was introduced in August 1992. The Inward Processing System is an
improvement over the duty drawback scheme since it allows exporters to make use of imported
materials for export production without having to pay duty for the imports. The scheme,
however, has not had widespread usage partly due to a lack of knowledge of its operation by
exporters. The education campaign on duty drawback is also being used to publicise the Inward
Processing Rebate Scheme. A further constraint on usage, however, has been the criteria which
we have so far applied for exporters to qualify for the scheme. We have now removed the
existing criteria in order to enable all exporters to qualify.
12.   The high interest rates currently obtaining in the local money market have reduced substantially
the competitiveness of local exports on the world market. In an effort to address this problem
Government, through the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) introduced a Pre and Post Shipment
Export Finance Scheme and facilitated the introduction of various offshore funding schemes by
conimercial and merchant banks. The RBZ facility is mainly targeted at small to medium scale
exporters. Bigger companies are being encouraged to access funds from the offshore facilities
being run by the banks.
13.   By the end of 1993, we will develop a strategy for rationalizing the current customs tariff to yield
a modest, relatively uniform tariff by 1995. This strategy will be prepared with the assistance
of our UNDP-funded consultants. Sales taxes on luxury goods may be increased in conjunction
with this tariff rationalization, to contain demand and raise revenue. As oudined in the
Framework for Economic Reform, we will abolish the surtax by 1995. However, revrenue needs



-29 -
arising from the drought prevented us from reducing the surtax by five percentage points from
July 1992 as was planned, but we are reviewing the issue in the context of the 1993/94 Budget.
B.    Deregulation
14.   In order for the structural adjustment programme to produce sustained growth in investment and
employment, It is essential that flrms (especially small scale firms) be in a position to respond
quicldy and effectively to changing market opportunities and prices. This requires a vigorous
effort to relax investment controls, remove the substantial and pervasive other barriers that
restrict the entry and mobility of firms.
Bi.  Investment Delicencdng.
15.   To facilitate investment, provide firms with increased flexibility to respond to opportunities and
competitive pressures, reduce costs and generate a supply response, domestic controls over
investments made with "own funds" are being substantially relaxed. While registration of all
Investment projects by ZIC will be required, approval, in terms of foreign exchange usage, will
only be required for those asking for a direct allocation of foreign exchange and for large
projects. ZIC's future responsibilities for evaluation of applications will be:
a)    to check for compliance with normal environmental, health and safety considerations,
referring those projects on which there are any concerns to the appropriate agencies prior
to granting approval;
b)    to check the activity specified against the reserved list, which will limit the industries and
sub-sectors in which certain classes of investor can invest; and
c)    to carry out a normal evaluation of large projects, whose threshold will be determined
by the ZIC Board, and those asking for a direct allocation of foreign exchange.
16.   Tlis new arrangement will apply to all capital expenditures for replacement, expansion and
modernisation of existing capacity, as well as new projects. The reform will encourage the use
of ERS funds for investment finance and thereby reduce the demand placed on DLMA funds, and
facilitate both domestic and foreign investment. Investments made under this provision will not
make any claim on the pool of foreign exchange available for direct allocation. This provision,
together with the exemption of imported capital goods from surtax and import tax, will increase
investment and enable more firms to improve their productivity and expand production much
more quickly.
17.   With the reduction in its project evaluation role, ZIC will have more resources to devote to
investment promotion and facilitation and investor servicing. As part of its investor servicing
role, ZIC will be responsible for facilitating the acquisition of other relevant licenses from line
ministries as well as assisting investors in other administrative matters.
18.   Consistent with the ZIC Act, Government will issue a statutory instrument, that identifies a short
list of activities where a specified minimum local shareholding will be required.



- 30 -
19.   At the beginning of 1992, we introduced surtax and import tax exemption for capital goods under
any projects registered or approved by ZIC. Investments made outside the ZIC machinery can
benefit from the provision if they apply for exemption through ZIC, who in turn facilitate
authority from the Ministry of Finance. We are currently simplifying the approval process by
delegating the authority to give exemption to the Department of Taxes, who are responsible for
detrmining whether the goods in question are of a capital nature. In time, the intention is to
produce a list of capital goods qualifying for exemption, thus obviating the need for application
in order to get exemption.
20.   Government fully recognises the important contribution that foreign investment can make to
growth, especially export oriented-growth. In order to provide a clear signal to foreign investors
and to promote rapid private investment in Zimbabwe, we have undertaken the following
important reforms:
(i)    Since May 1, 1993, any new company established with foreign shareholding and without recourse
to direct foreign exchange allocation has been automatically eligible for unrestricted remittance
of after-tax dividends accruing to the foreign shareholders, provided those dividends are paid in
foreign exchange through the ERS market. The previous rules for dividend remittances apply
if direct foreign exchange allocation is used (rather than ERS) for any part of the remittance.
This reform applies to all wholly foreign owned private companies and joint ventures.
(Ci)   Foreign companies established prior to May 1, 1993 are now allowed to remit dividends through
the ERS in excess of their current dividend remitability level of 25% or 50% according to the
percentage which post-April 1993 investment constitutes within the net asset value of the
company. This percentage is in addition to the existing entitlement and can be utilised up to the
point at which total dividends reach (but do not exceed) 100 percent of net after tax profits. The
previous rules for dividend remittances apply if direct foreign exchange allocation is used for
remitting any part of the dividends. This reform provides a strong incentive for existing
companies to make new investments, and over time will diminish the practical distinction between
existing and new companies at a rate determined by the intensity of such new investment.
(iii) Investment under sections (i) or (ii) above can be made using funds of any kind: new injections
of foreign exchange, own surplus or blocked funds and funds in kind. Since May 1, 1993,
switched blocked funds arrangements can be used for investments, but for fiscal reasons, this
provision is initially limited to local investors exporting at least 75 percent of turnover.
(iv) Foreign companies established prior to September 1979, which until May 1 1993, were limited
to dividend remittability of 25% of net after tax profits now have this entitlement raised to 50%
if exports comprise more than 25% of total sales and all remittances are made using ERS.
(v)   In addition, for all companies established prior to May 1, 1993, increased export sales measured
as an increase in value of export sales over the previous year also earn additional entitlements to
remit dividends on a year-by-year basis, again up to a cumulative maximum of 100% of net after
tax profits. The additional entitlement is half the percentage increase in exports, provided that
the base value of exports is at least 10% of total sales.
(vi)   For all companies, any new foreign investment made after 1st September 1979, is eligible for
unrestricted repatriation of the foreign exchange injected as capital in the project, provided that



- 31 -
the ERS is used to acquire the foreign exchange required for repatriation without past dividend
deductions. The amount eligible for repatriation is designated in tne currency brought into
Zimbabwe at the time of the investment. This provision does not apply to any investment (or
portion thereot) financed by blocked funds or surplus funds which are covered under Exchange
Control rules.
(vii) Government intends to phase out, subject to Balance of Payments constraints, existing restrictions
on the repatriation of capital injected for investments made prior to 1st September 1979.
(viii) Tbe current restrictions on the repatriation of capital gains will be retained subject to balance of
payments constraints. However, restrictions on the level of interest which can be earned on
corporate blocked funds within the domestic economy were removed from May 1, 1993, for
blocked funds created by disinvestment after that date in respect of investments undertaken after
1st September, 1979. The interest earned on these funds is now remittable through the ERS.
21.   As part of the effo.t to attract foreign investment, Govermment is committed to maintaining a
legal framework that provides full protection of private property rights for investment, whether
local or foreign.  To demonstrate this commitment to foreign investors, Government is
progressively entering into more bilateral and multilateral investment guarantee treaties and has
joined MIGA. To ensure that the investment environment in Zimbabwe is clearly understood,
we will develop and publish a revised Investment Guidelines to reflect all these changes by the
end of 1993.
B2.   Removing Other Entry Barriers.
22.   The main sources of other entry barriers are statutory monopoly power of marketing boards, and
legislation that empowers incumbent firms to block entry by new firms, mostly in the form of
entry application and registration procedures, and the establishment of standards that effectively
preclude entry by small firms. In order to strengthen the political support and prospects for
economic success of the structural adjustment programme, these barriers need to be removed
quickly. We are implementing a two-pronged strategy to address these critical problems. First,
Government will quickly remove the barriers to entry that paricularly affect small firms.
Second, policies to strengthen small firms and assist them in the entry process will be developed.
Agriculturl Marketing.
23.   During the past 18 months, Government has begun a significant reform of the agricultural pricing
and marketing system in order to improve the efficiency of marketing mechanisms, increase the
role of the private sector in marketing and processing activities, and to increase the volume of
production in the sector, especially among small-scale farmers. Government has recently
completed a draft of a comprehensive marketing and price liberalization strategy. Using this
document as a basis, Government will continue with the programme for reforming the agricultural
pricing and marketing system, including the elimination of the marketing monopolies currently
held by the four agricultural parastatals and abolition of price and other controls impeding the
participation of the private sector in agricultural marketing and processing activities.



- 32 -
(i)    Beef. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a)
eliminate the floor on producer and wholesale beef prices sold In domestic markets; (b)
eliminate slaughter quotas at all abattoirs; (c) review present health standards and
regulations to insure that public safety is maintained without reliance on production
quotas; and (d) review export regulations with the objective of permitting private
Individuals and firms to export beef and beef products. Tbe above mentioned changes
will be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing year. In
addition, the Government will announce the policy changes effective for the 1994/95
marketing year based on the review of health standards at abattoirs and export
regulations.
(ii)   Dairy. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a)
transfer licensing authority for dairy enterprises from DMB to an appropriate authority;
(b) review the present health standard regulations to insure minimum health standards for
milk productiop; (c) continue the policy of allowing milk and milk products to be
unregulated commodities (as per the Government's announcement of March 31, 1993);
(d) allow DMB to continue to purchase milk at prices that are to DMB's best advantage;
and (e) review export regulations with the objective of permitting private individuals and
firms to export dairy products. The above mentioned changes will be made effective no
later than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing year. In addition, the Government will
announce by the policy changes effective for the 1994/95 financial year, based on the
review of health standards and export regulations.
- ii) Cotton. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its int=rion to: (a)
abolish the marketing and processing monopoly of the Cotton Marketing Board and
abolish all regulations restricting entry by others into the domestic marketing and
processing of cotton and cotton products, except for those relating to health, safety and
environment; (b) continue to allow producer prices for seed cotton to be market
determined (as per the Government's announcement of March 31, 1993); (c) allow all
marketing agents including CMB the authority-subject to complying with uniform
government quality standards-to market cotton products domestically to their best
advantage; (d) review export regulations with the objective of permitting private
individuals and firms to export cotton and cotton products; and (e) maintain the policy
of allowing unrestricted cotton lint imports through the ERS. The above mentioned
changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing
season (April 1994). In addition, the Government will announce the policy changes
effective for the 1994/95 marketing year based on the review of export regulations.
(iv)   Oiseeds. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a)
eliminate price floors on oilseeds and by products and allow GMB to purchase oilseeds
to their best advantage; and (b) review export regulations with the objective of pamiting
private individuals and firms to export oilseeds and oilseed products. The above
mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994/95
marketing season (April 1994). In addition, the Government will announce the policy
changes effective for the 1994195 marketing year based on the review of export
regulations.



- 33 -
(v)   Wheat. The Government will announce by the end of July 1993 its intention to: (a)
review trade and stocking policy; (b) eliminate all marketing controls on wheat; Ic) allow
GMB to announce and defend a floor for the producer price of wheat; (d) allow any
private sector firm to participate in domestic wheat marketing; and (e) review export,
import, and stocking policy with the objective of permitting private individuals and fums
to trade of wheat. The above mentioned changes will be made effective no later than the
begimning of the 1994/95 marketing season (April 1994). In addition, the Government
will announce the policy changes effective for the 1994/95 marketing year based on the
above mentioned review.
(vi)   Yellow Maize. The Government will announce, by the end of July 1993, policy changes
that wIll eliminate all price and marketing controls on yellow maize, thereby allowing
market determined prices and any private sector firm to participate in domestic yellow
maize marketing. Government will also review export regulations, with the objective of
permitting private individuals and firms to export yellow maize. The above mentioned
changes will be made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing
season (April 1994). In addition, the Government will announce by December 1994 the
policy changes effective for the 1995/96 marketing year based on the review of export
regulations.
(vii) White Maizem The Government will, by the end of July 1993, develop a maize stocking
policy consistent with the Government's security objectives and announce the first phase
of a package of reforms that will: (a) remove the requirement on farmers to sell white
maize offtake to the Grain Marketing Board and allow anyone, except designated large
miuiers, to buy white maize from any domestic source; (b) redefine, zones A and B so
that zone A is limited to the operating premises of specific large-scale commercial millers
in natral regions I, II, and m, and zone B as the rest of the country; (c) allow free and
unrestricted movement and sale of white maize in zone B; (d) allow GMB to defend a
floor price for white maize at selected depots in the country; (e) require GMB to sell at
the wholesale price to all individuals and firms. The above mentioned changes will be
made effective no later than the beginning of the 1994/95 marketing season (April 1994).
The second phase of price and market liberalization for white maize will be implemented
at the beginning of the 1995/96 marketing season, and will (a) allow all white maize and
milled products prices to be market determined, but GMB will continue to defend a floor
price at selected depots, (b) permit free and unrestricted movement and sale of white
maize in all areas of the country, i.e. the distinction between zone A and zone B will be
eliminated.
Title Deeds
24.   We recognise that access to title deeds is essential in order to promote the formation and
expansion of small scale firms. As a practical matter, title deed is required in order to have
access to finance capital and the security of tenure that makes long-term investment attractive.
There is a three-year backlog of title deed applications which must be addressed as quickdy as
possible. In order to expedite this process, Government Is speeding up the recruitment and
registration of expatriate surveyors subject to acceptable qualifications. To speed up the
elimination of the backlog of title deed applications, Government is developing an accelerated



-34 -
programme for the Issuance of title deeds at designated growth points outside the communal
areas.
Statutory Entry Barriers
25.   As mentioned earlier, Government has introduced partial deregulation of freight transport,
including removal of the requirement for road service permits for trucks of ten (10) tonnes
carrying capacity or less transporting general goods for hire and reward, and for trucks of
fifteeen (15) tonnes carrying capacity or less hauling agricultural produce during the crop intake
season. However, we recognise that the licensing system and certain provisions in the Road
Motor Transportation Act (Chapter 262) inhibit the entry of new firms and the operational
flexibility of existing firms both in freight and rural passenger transport. Therefore, in order to
remove artificial barriers and promote the formation and expansion of new transport operators,
the Government has already drafted proposed amendments to the Ro:d Motor Transportation Act
embodying the following reforms:
(i)    Removal of all route and commodity-specific licenses (road service permits) for goods
transport, other than those required for health and enviromnental purposes (hazardous
substances, etc).
(ii)   Introduction of a simplified system for licensing (including the application procedure for
road service permits) of all operators, existing and new, which will focus licensing
requirements on vehicle roadworthiness, traffic safety, and insurance coverage. The right
of existing operators to oppose applications for road service permits by new operators
will be eliminated.
The Government announced its intention to make these reforms in a Press Statement on May 7,
1993. A draft bill containing these reforms will be submitted to Parliament not later than October
1, 1993.
26.   In addition to these reforms in the transport sector, Government has commissioned a consultancy
study of statutory restrictions on entry and operations, with particular reference to small-scale
enterprises. The study will identify the specific pieces of legislation which create (or facilitate)
restrictions on the entry of new firms, including any provisions that directly exclude the
operations of new private firms and application procedures that have the effect of making entry
by new firms more difficult. Ile study will focus on central government legislation, but the role
of local authorities in creating or maintaining entry restrictions wUi also be examined where
relevant. The draft consult%cy rej.  will be completed and submitted to Government not later
than June 30, 1993. The   'erment will then develop a specific plan and timetable for the
removal of the statutory restrictions on entry identified in the consultancy report.
C.    Price Decontrol
27.   Price decontrol is already well advanced, with only three goods still subject to Cabinet approval;
vegetable oil, maize meal and some fertilizer compounds. Mark-up restrictions have also been
greatly reduced.



- 35 -
B. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
28.   In anticipation of a successful 1993 harvest, initial signs of economic and investment recovery
are already apparent. Government is pursuing prudent macroeconomic policies to ensure a
speedy and sustainable recovery, and to reduce public sector demands on the resources of the
ptivate sector. Projected 1993 GDP growth of about seven percent is expected to offset nearly
all of the 8 percent decline in 1992, while inflation is expected to ease gradually during 1993 to
about 20 percent. Similarly, a rapid expansion of 1993 exports will reverse nearly all of the
sharp, drought-related contraction experienced in 1992, allowing the current account deficit to
fal back to near 12 percent of GDP. From 1994, we anticipate that the economic structural
adjustment programme will result in sustained growth of GDP, employment, consumption, private
investment, and exports.
A.    FUcl Policy
29.   Since Independence, the Government of Zimbabwe has been committed to expanding basic social
services to include the vast majority of the country's population. During the 1980s, Zimbabwe
ahieved notable advances in education, primary health care, family planning services, and rural
infastructure, among others. Achieving these advances was costly, however, and the central
governmenti's fiscal deficit exceeded 10 percent of GDP for much of the 1980s. At the outset
of ESAP In FY90/91, central government revenue and expenditure stood at 37 percent and 48
percent of GDP, respectively, resulting in a budget deficit of I 1 percent.
30.   Under ESAP, Zimbabwe is confronting the challenge of restoring fiscal balance, while continuing
to address social needs and maintaining economic infrastructure. ESAP's fiscal policy objective
has been to achieve a deficit of 5 percent of GDP by FY94/95, by cutting public expenditure to
38 percent whilst reducing the tax burden to about 33 per cent of GDP. Related goals in fiscal
reform include the development of 3-year rolling public sector investment plans; improved
targeting of subsidies to the poor; and a general shift in the focus of government activities away
from direct participation in the market for private goods and services, and toward alleviating
market failures and building an enabling enviromnent for business growth and employment
creation.
31.   Government has made some significant progress in FY91/92, achieving a fiscal deficit of 8.7
percent of GDP. However, the drought precluded us from achieving its deficit reduction targets
in FY92/93, since it resulted in a Z$600 million revenue shortil and Z$1.5 billion in
expenditures for essential drought relief and recovery operations, including incremental public
sector enterprise operating losses.
32.   Despite the very difficult circumstances of the past year, aiad including drought-related
expenditure, we will succeed in reducing central government expenditures to about 39 percent
of GDP in FY92/93, from 46 percent in FY91/92. Despite a projected 5 percent shorttblI in
expected revenue, the central government deficit will be contained to Z$3.1 billion in FY92/93 -
- equal to 9.5 percent of GDP, and only slightly in exce& of its target of 9.3 percent. We are
striving to narrow this gap further through increased efforts in tax collections to reduce payment
arrears. As in the past three years, we are continuing to reduce the tax burden in order to
encourage savings and investnent. Further income tax reductions already announced in the



- 36 -
1992/93 Budget were effected on April 1, 1993. This involves a reduction in the top marginal
rate from 55 per cent to 50 per cent, and a reduction in the minimum income tax rate from 20
to 15 per cent.
33.   Although the drought forced a postponement in govermment deficit reduction, that effort is
already back on track. Government will submit to Parliament in July a PY93/94 budget
reflecting a deficit of less than 6 percent of GDP. In order to further improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the public sector, Government will undertake a comprehensive public expenditure
review (PER) during FY93/94, the detailed mechanics of which are being worked out.
34.   Government has also taken steps in FY92/93 to stem the burden of public sector enterprise (PSE)
losses on its budget. For FY92/93, we budgeted Z$970 million to cover the consolidated losses
of public sector enterprises and to avoid the need to carry-over additional losses into FY93-94.
While it now appears that it will not be possible to eliminate this carry-over, we have taken
several measures to ensure that it will not exceed Z$300 million, and that the combined operating
losses of PSEs for FY93/94 will not exceed Z$150 million.
B.    Monetary Policy
35.   Monetary policy will continue in accordance with the ongoing programme agreed with the IMF.
Under this programme, monetary management will continue to aim at reducing the rate of
inflation and protecting the balance of payments. The main objectives will be to keep monetary
expansion at a pace somewhat below the targeted growth of nominal GDP and to maintain
positive real interest rates. To this end, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe will continue to rely
fully on market-based monetary policy instruments, including open market-type operations and
a flexible rediscount policy, supported by appropriate changes in reserve requirements. Direct
controls on interest rates are currently confined to those on deposits (minimum rates) and the
building societies' mortgage rates.
C.    Exchange Rates
36.   In order to restore export competitiveness, the Zimbabwe dollar was depreciated by 15 percent
between December 1992 and February 1993 against a basket of currencies. Ile exchange rate
will continue to be managed to support the need to expand exports, generate a sustainable current
account deficit and provide an anchor for price stability. It will be managed, together with
monetary and fiscal policy, to facilitate a smooth transition to a unified market exchange rate.
m PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMET
A.    Public Sector Enterprises
37.   In order to achieve greater operational efficiency and improved financial performance,
Government is pushing ahead with its programme of structural reform in the public enterprise
sector. There have already been large price increases for many PSEs, and agricultural producer
prices were raised significantly to provide appropriate producer incentives for the 1992/93 crop.
A number of additional measures will be taken over the next 18 months to generate a more



-37 -
efficient and cost effective economic infrastructure, significantly reduce the deficit of the PSEs,
and in turn reduce crowding out of the private sector in financial markets.
38.   Among the major increases in PSE prices were power tariff hikes of 32 percent during the first
six months of 1992, a further 25 percent in September, and 42 percent in December. Postal
tariffs were Increased by 25 percent in March and international telecommunications tariffs by 50
percent in February. The producer price for white maize has been increased by 164 percent,
wheat by 121 percent, cotton by 199 percent, milk by 26 percent, and soya beans by 121 percent.
These calculations were made on the basis of current floor price versus previous producer price.
Moreover, for most commodities, these new producer prices have been given as floor prices, with
marketing agencies having flexibility to negotiate prices with producers. With the exception of
maize whose retail price remains partially subsidized, all increases in producer prices and the
higher costs of imported foodstuffs have been fully passed on to consumers.
39.   Government will implement reforms in the legal and institutional framework to enable PSEs to
increase efficiency and to increase their autonomy and responsibility. Under the UNDP-
supported assistance to the Public Enterprise Reform programme, consultants will help
Government prepare reform programmes no later than June 1993. The measures involved will
include:
(I)    Revisions to legislation, including sttutory corporation acts, to streamline miniterial
oversight of PSEs and confer greater authority to Boards for decisions regarding budget
approval, salary levels, hiring and dismissal of employees, procurement, product lines,
and pricing policies;
(ii)   Legislative refbrms, including revision to statutory corporation acts, to facilitate private
sector participation in areas currently subject to public sector monopoly, and, in
particular, to remove any legal impediments to joint ventures between PSEs and private
sector companies;
(iii)   Review of the regulatory framework under which PSEs operate in relation to
Government.
(iv)   Reforms to create a more transparent environment for the operation of PSEs through the
phased reduction of indirect subsidies such as government loan guarantees, exemptions
from customs duty, indirect and direct tax exemptions.
40.   For PSEs that remain in the public sector, phased enterprise-specific reform programmes are
being developed to increase their efficiency and improved financial performance. The broad
strategy of commercialisation is to be pursued through granting greater autonomy, creating
incentives for management to improve efficiency, and establishing performance targets. Generic
actions beig taken include:
(J)    The general introduction of performance targets and performance-related pay for the top
management of NRZ, ZESA, PVC, AFC and the four major agricultural marketing
boards with extension to all PSEs by December 1993.



- 38 -
(ii)   lhe development of a corporate plan to be the basic tool for monitoring PSE
performance.
41.   A PSE Monitoring Unit, comprising staff from the Accountant General's office and from the
Monitoring and Implementation Unit (MIU) of the Ministry of Finance, has been established and
is receiving quarterly financial returns from all PSEs. By the end of June 1993, the analytical
capability of this unit will be strengthened and a management information system put into place,
with the help of the UNDP-financed consultants.
42.   Government recognises the importance of telecommunications infrastructure in supporting
investment and growth, particularly for export-oriented activities, and the need to marshall private
investment to expand and modernise this infrastructure. To achieve this, Government will finalise
a programme of restructuring for the PFC in 1993, with a focus on improving operational
efficiency, and intends to introduce by December 31, 1993, an operating framework providing
wide managerial autonomy, explicit operational and financial targets, and performance-related
pay.  In addition, to provide an enabling environment for private sector participation,
Governnment will consider: (a) spliting the PTC into two autonomous entities for postal and
telecommunications services; (b) allowing private sector participation in providing selected
services, including customer equipment and mobile communication; and (c) establishing a
regulatory framework with mechanisms for determining tariffs for services provided exclusively
by the PTC and governing the interface between private sector providers of selected
telecommunications services and ibe PTC (e.g., access and pricing for interconnection, and
technical standards for network compatibility).
43.   Consistent with Government's plan for commercializing PSEs, the restructuring programme for
Zimbabwe Electidty Supply Authority (ZESA) has been launched. The Government will
reach agreement by July 1993 on an operation of framework to be introduced in FY93/94 under
which: (a) ZESA will undertake to complete its programme of internal reorganisation and
streamlining its managerial structure to increase efficiency and reduce costs and to meet specified
operational and financial targets; and (b) Government will undertake to ensure ZESA autonomy
in its operations, notably in the determination of its personnel policies and procurement goods
and services below a threshold value, which is under review. The framework will also provide
for tariffs to be reviewed regularly, and adjusted if necessary, to reflect the economic costs of
power generated and distributed, and for performance related pay for senior managers.
Government has made provision in the new power system development plan for the private sector
to generate and supply power to the national grid.
44.   Air Zimbabwe is undergoing a comprehensive restructuring programme aimed at cost-cutting.
A diagnostic study is already underway and some actions have been taken in terms of
rationalising international routes, regular adjustment of fares, reorganisation of management and
the semi-open skies policy which now allows new airlines to compete with Air Zimbabwe.
Further actions will be considered when the consultancy study report is presented in June 1993.
45.   The reform programme for National Railways of Zimbabwe is already well advanced.
Operational improvements will be pursued in 1993, aimed at greater cost efficiency and the
reduction of the financial deficit by 1994/95. Selective opportunities for contracting some NRZ
operations such as catering will be investigated.



- 39 -
46.   The National Oil Company of Zimbabwe (NOCZIM) is expected to continue to play a
monopoly role in the bulk importation of main-line petroleum products. Prices will continue to
be reviewed and adjusted as necessary to reflect the world oil price and exchange rate
movements.
47.   With regards to Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company (ZISCO), Government aims to rationalise
its financial position with the objective of Improving its debt to equity ratio, enhancing its
viability so as to encourage private sector participation. A plan will be drawn up on methods
through which the private sector may involve itself in a number of ZISCO's product lines and
to restructure its balance sheet to ensure private sector interest.
48.   The restructuring of the agricultural marketing boards and the AFC-which is designed to
transform these parastatals into more efficient, more autonomous, and commercially operated
corporations with government equity participation-will be completed before the beginning of the
1994/95 marketing season (April, 1994). It is, however, recognised that these corporations will
need to coontinue to fulfill important developmental roles in the small-holder farmer communities,
and will need to continue to receive explicit government support for these activities. In order to
address this issue, Government will clearly identify and separate the commercial and
developmental functions to be performed by these corporations before the beginning of the
1994/95 marketing season (April, 1994) and agree upon arrangements for financing said
developmental functions.
B.    Public Sector Investment Programme
49.   To effectively support private sector efforts to expand investments, employment and exports, the
PSIP gives priority to basic infrastructure. To make the PSIP more transparent, the 1993194
PSIP will be published as an Annex to the 1993/94 Budget. We are furthermore committed to
a system of rolling three-year investment programmes and to this end, it is intended to publish
the PSIP for the period 1994/95 - 1996/97 during the 1994/95 fiscal year.
50.   The presentation of the PSIP will be improved, where feasible, by showing programmes and
projects by  sub-sector.   Financial flexibility  for re-allocating  resources between
programmes/projects already exists, but monitoring of physical and financial execution by
ministries (inplementing agencies) will be institutionalized, to enable government to adjust the
investment programmes to changing circumstances throughout the plan period. This will include
(quarterly) progress reports by programmes/projects.
51.   To fiurter improve the quality of the PSIP and to ensure its coherence with the country's overall
development plan, greater emphasis will be put on strategy papers to be prepared by the relevant
Ministries. These should be consistent with investment programmes, across sectors and should
reflect the recurrent cost implication of the investment programme.



- 40 -
C.    Civil Service Reform
52.   A fundamental restructuring of Zimbabwe's civil service is currently underway.  Tbis
restructuring consists of efforts to streamline the ministerial structure of Government, reduce the
number of civil servants, establish a revised role for Government vis-a-vis citizens and
businesses, and increase the efficiency of Government operations.
53.   Now in its second year, Zimbabwe's programme of civil service consolidation is ahead of
schedule. 9700 positions have been eliminated through personnel retrenchments and attrition.
In addition, cost-savings have been realised and efficiency enhanced through a reduction in the
number of government ministries from 23 to 19 at the end of FY91/92. We will continue to
pursue structural streamlining along with a phased reduction in the number of civil service
positions, while maintaining essential teaching and health personnel. By June 1993, we will have
reduced the civil service by 13,000 positions, and this will rise to 15,000 by the end of 1993.
54.   Perhaps more importantly, Government has turned its attention to redefining the function of the
civil service. A prevailing tendency for public sector involvement in economic activity is to be
replaced by a presumption in favour of private entrepreneurship. To facilitate this, Government,
with the assistance of UNDP consultants, is implementing a range of reforms aimed at improving
its efficiency and effectiveness through the enhancement of management skills mix and training.
55.   We have already taken steps to retain people with important skills within the civil service, by
providing retention allowances for selected skill groups (including accountants). We have also
expanded training, including study tours, short internships abroad, and local courses in public
management for mid-level managers.
IV. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT
56.   The Social Dimensions of Adjustment is part of Government's overall policy of assisting the
county's vulnerable groups during adjustment. Structural poverty is being addressed through
the overall growth policies outlined earlier in this document; the continuation of investments in
human resources, including ensuring access for low-income groups to basic health and education;
small-scale enterprise programmes; and supplementary income programmes.
57.   Transitional poverty due to drought and the economic structural adjustment programme are given
additional attention and resources through the Social Development Fund (SDF). SDF has a
welfare component, covering health, education and nutrition, and a job creation part directed
primarily to retrenched workers, offering training programmes and grants for small-scale income-
generating projects. Supplementary feeding programmes for specific target groups will be
continued by the health services.
58.   A system for reviewing fees annually is already in place although this has not been monitored
effectively. We are now actively looking at ways of improving the operational efficiency of the
system. Exemption levels for basic social services will be reviewed regularly to keep pace with
inflation.
59.   Fee exemptions for social services is putting severe financial strain on providers of such services.
The medium and long-term financing of social services at central and local levels is of major



- 41 -
concern to government, and this problem will be a major area of analysis within the Public
Expenditure Review. In the FY93/94 budget, Government intends to restore real recurrent
expenditures per capita in the health and education sectors to the level that existed in FY91/92.
V. EXTERNAL FINANCING
60.   Success In increasing investment and productivity, without an unpalatable transitional fall in
domestic consumption, will require substantial foreign financing during 1993 and 1994. As
emphasised earlier, we recognise the importance of efforts to expand export earnings as quickly
as possible, and hence are giving prominence to efforts to achieve this, but these efforts still need
to be complemented by large foreign inflows, especially following the effects of the drought.
Balance of payments projections shared with the Zimbabwe CG in December 1992 indicate that
US $3.2 billion will be needed in foreign capital inflow between 1993 and 1995 to support this
adjustment programme. Anything less would lead to import restrictions that would constrain
investment and growth. Even with this level of assistance, consumption per capita is expected
to fall during 1993 and 1994 as restoration of a sustainable balance of payments results in little
or no growth in national expenditure for the next couple of years, even though gross domestic
production will rise by 6 to 7 percent per year.
61.   During 1992, we have received support from many bilateral donors and from IMF, World Bank
and ADB. Moreover, we appreciate the moves made by many of the donors and the multilateral
institutions to increase both the concessionality of their support, the share of quick disbursing
assistance, and to untie balance of payments support. In response to the drought, donors came
forth with additional grants of US$100 million in 1992, and pledged a similar amount in 1993.
Nevertheless, additional borrowing has increased our debt service ratio to 25 to 28 percent for
the next few years. Within the context of the Zimbabwe CG, we are asking that these efforts
continue for 1993 and 1994 to see us through the most difficult drought recovery and transidonal
adjustment years. To help expedite these external inflows, we have established a three person
task force with participation from the Reserve bank and the Ministry of Finance. Government has
also engaged an external procurement advisor to expedite and reform procurement and
disbursement mechanisms.
62.   Indications of external assistance made at, or before, the December 1992 CG Meeting leave us
only about US$80 million short of what we need for 1993. We hope that the bulk of this
remaining need can be met through disbursements from a second Structural Adjustment Credit
from the World Bank.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENI
63.   This adjustment programme continues to be monitored by an Inter-Ministerial Committee chaired
by the Senior Secretary for Finance. Responsibility for coordinating technical work on actual
implementation rests with the Monitoring and Implementation Unit (MIU) within the Ministry of
Finance. This MIU is now fully staffed and is being supported by two groups of consultants; one
on Public Sector Enterprise reform and one covering other key aspects of the reform programme
- trade liberalization, deregulation, fiscal and monetary management and the social dimensions
of adjustment. In addition, we have sought and received other technical assistance to directly



- 42 -
support the RBZ with monetary management. The MIU has regular consultations with
representatives from the business community and the labour unions.
64.   To increase the general understanding of our economic structural adjustment programme, we have
run a series of television and radio programmes, and newspaper articles. To ensure that the
public continues to be well informed of policy and institutional changes, as and when they are
implemented, we have introduced a weekly report in the local press detailing changes being
introduced as part of the economic reform programme. Furthermore, we will continue to explain
the ongoing economic reform programme through public statements by senior government
officials and political leaders.
65.   As planned, we are undertaking a mid-term evaluation of the programme this year, with
assistance from the IMF and the World Bank. This evaluation will guide refinements to the
reform programme for 1994 and 1995, but it will not affect our determination to complete the
broad programme of reform by 1995.
66.   We are confident that the reform programme as outlined above will, with continued support from
the international community, generate the desired increase in investment and growth.
Yours sincerely,
Hon. Dr. Bernard T.G. Chidzero
Senior Minister of Finance



- 43 -                                      ANNEX  III
Table 1. ZIMBABWE:   KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
---*----------------------------------- -------- ----- Historicalt ..... -Pret.  --Projected ---------------
Key Indicators                              1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
. . . . . . . .  . .. . . . .   ......  ................ ...... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
GDP Growth Rate                              9.3     5.6      2.1     3.6    -8.3     7.0      6.0     6.0     5.0
GDP Per Capita Growth Rate                   6.1     2.4    -1.1      0.4   -11.5     3.7      2.8     2.8     1.8
Gross Investment/GOP                        17.2    19.0    20.1    22.0   22.0    23.5    22.5    23.0    23.0
Private Investment/GDP 1/                   11.2    13.9    15.6    17.4    17.4    19.7    17.8    18.3    18.3
Central Government Investment/MGP 2/         5.7     5.1      4.5     4.6     4.6     3.8      4.7     4.7     4.7
lIrplied Total ICOR                          5.1     4.6     5.8    -3.0      3.7     4.3     4.5      5.3     5.3
National Savings/GDP                        19.1    19.0    17.9    15.6    10.2    15.9    21.0    23.3    23.4
Private Savings/GDP                            .       ..      ..    21.4    14.7    20.8    20.9    22.1
Central Government Savings/GDP 2/             ..       ..      ..    -5.8    -4.5    -4.9      0.1     1.2
Goverment Revenues/GDP 2/                   35.7    37.4    37.2    37.8    39.9    29.3    34.3    34.0
Government Expenditures/GDP 2/              44.6    46.1    45.6    48.6    49.0    38.9    39.0    37.2
CG Def.(Excluding grants)/GDP 2/            10.0     9.9      9.8    10.8     9.1      9.6     4.7     3.2
Inflation (% Change in CPI)                 10.3    12.5    17.9    23.6    40.5    35.2    17.9    10.0    10.0
Exchange Rate (ZINS/USS)                   1.802   2.113   2.448   3.428   5.104        ..
[Real Index (1987.1)3                   1.01    0.92    0.87    0.77    0.68    0.68    0.69    0.68    0.66
Terma of Trade (1987=1)                     1.15    1.12    1.OC    1.12    0.97    1.02    1.09    1.14    1.16
Real Merchandise Export Growth Rate         11.4      1.3     0.8    -5.0    -4.6    12.3    13.3    10.7       8.0
Real Nerchandise import Growth Rate          6.0    16.5    12.6    16.8      0.3      5.9     2.2     5.0      4.4
Longterm Debt Service/XGS                   21.9    17.9    18.1    22.3    29.0    27.0    25.0    24.0    22.0
Current Account Deficit/GDP                  1.0    -1.2    -4.2    -8.7   -17.2   -12.1    -5.9    *2.9    -1.9
Current Account Deficit+ Grants/GDP          2.1     0.0    -2.4    -6.4   -11.6    -7.6    -2.0    -0.2    -0.5
Current Account Deficit (in USS)              60      -77    -257    -548    -905    -714    -370    -201    -140
Gross Reserves (in USS)                    257.7   177.0   219.0   299.0   302.0   406.0  552.0   657.0   714.0
Gross Reserves (in months imports)           2.7      1.6     1.7     2.1     2.1     2.6      3.4     3.8     3.8
................... ............................................................. ........................................................................
1/       Includes investment by pubtic  enterprises.
2/       fiscal year (July-June) ending in the calender year indicated, for years 1991 onwards.



- 44 -
Table 2. ZIPNBAUE: BALANCE Of PAYMENTS
(in mfI.liont   of us$)
....................................................P......................             .................
1980   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   199I   1995   1996
....................................................................................................................
A. Exports of Goods & MfS 1/      1612   1416    1606   1850   1897   2018   2056   1820   2108   2549   2914   3174
1. Merchandise (fob)            11.5  1325   1455   1669   1692   1753   1785   1506   1786   2204   2550   2792
2. mon-factor services           167    139    151    181    205    265    271    314    326    345    364    382
3  Imports of Goods & UFS         17n1   1304   1382   1537   1740   2001   2301   2438   2550   2620   2801   3006
1. Merchandise (fob)            1339   1013   1073   1157   1319   1511   1700   1752   1865   1930   2081   2243
2. Non-factor services           382    291    309    380    421    490    601    686    685    690    723    763
C. Resource Balance               -109    160    224    313    157      17   -245   *618   -412    -71    110    168
0. Net Factor Income                -72   -183   -214   *240   -214   -272   -30S   -298   -281   -311   -324   -318
1. Factor Receipts              107     69      13     16     25     22      26     27     34     42      57     68
2. Factor Paymmnts              179    252    227    2S6    239    294    331    325    315    353    381    386
a  Interest per ORS            10    128    158    142    132    141    237    207    251    291    298    313
binterest Arrears               0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
c. Other Factor Payments 2/   169    124      69    114    107    153      94    118     61      62     83     73
E. Net Current Transfers (prv)    -121    -26    -13    -13    -20       -2      2     11      9      12     13     10
F. Current Acnt excl. Grants      *302    -49      -3     60    -7    -25t   -548   -905   -714   -370   -201   -140
1. Official Capital Grants       58      58     S0     66     79    108    141    297    277    245    190    100
2. Current Acnt. incl. Grants  -244       9     77    126       2   -149   -407   -608   -437   -125    -11    -40
G. Long Term Capital Inftlo         -54      8     99     93      91    169    285    404    S52    258    121    106
1. Oirect Investment              2       7    -34      4    -10    -12       3     1S     28      38     44     S7
2. Not LT Loans                  -55      0    133     89    101    181    282    389    524    220       77     49
H. Total Other Items (Net)         211      42      S    *53   *117      -6    32      37    -91    -73    -38       0
1. Net Short-term Capital        24      25      2     14      3      15    143    -26    -91    -73    -38       0
2. Capital Flows u.E.I.           0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
3. Errors and Oissions           18?     I7      3    -67   -120    -19   -111      63      0       0      0      0
1. Changes In Net Reserves          8T    *59   -181   -166      24    -16      90    167    *24    -60    -7n    -66
1. Net Credit from IMf                  -30    -77    -86    -40    -22      -S    226    144    128      53     -8
2. Other Reserve Changes         87    -2    -104    -80       6       6     9S    -S9   -168   -188   -125    -58
of which:
increase in gross reserves    ..      . .        ..    ..          .      .      -3   -104   -146   -105    -57
Shares of GDP (Current US$)
1. Resource Balance               -2.0    3.2    4.0    S.t    2.5    0.3  -3.9  -11.8  -7.5   -1.1    1.6    2.3
2. Total Interest Paymnts          3.3    5.0    4.1    4.2    3.9    4.7    S.2    6.2    S.4    5.6    S.6    5.2
3  Currant Account Belance 3/      -5.6   -1.0   -0.1    1.0   -1.2  -4.2   -8.7  -17.2  -12.1   -S.9   -2.9   -1.9
4. LT Capital Inflow               -1.0    0.2    1.8    1.5    1.5    2.7    43    7.7    9.4    4.1    1.8    1.4
S. Met Credit from INF                    -0.6   -1.4   -1.4  -0.7   -0.6   -0.1    4.3    2.4    2.0    0.8   -0.1
Foreign Exchang Reserves:
1. International Reserves          214    216    265    258    177    219    299    302    406    S52    6S7    714
2. Gold (end-Yr. London Price)     60      368    44?   437   381    384        ..    ..      ..
3. Gross Reserve  exct. Geld 4     214    106    166    179      9      149     ..     ..      ..     ..     . 
4. Gr. Reserves in No. Iaoor    1.9    2.6    3.0    2.7    1.6    1.7    2.1    2.1    2.6    3.4    3.8    3.8
Exchange Rates (LWIU/S)t
1. Nom. Off. X-Rete (Ifs)        0.64   1.66T  1.662  1.806  2.113  2."4  3.42   5.104        ..
2. Rel Eff. X-Rate (11I0 100)       100     81     is     72     66      SS     41     21      . 
3. X-Rate for WJiP Convaion      0.63  1."67  1.62  1.806 2.113  Z.4U  3.428  5.104            ..     ..     . 
................................
1/ The estimste of exports in 1992 includs $50 million which Is still in doubt but Is most likely exports
2/ Includes interest on short-tom debt and IMF chargs
3/ Excluding official capital grants
4/ Historical data based on IFS



- 45 -
Table 3: EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
(Millions US$)
,,.,........... .................. ........................................ ... .... . .....
1993      1994      1995   1993-95
Current Account Balance                                  714        370       201       1285
Amortization  (from long-term capital)                    354       389       430       1173
Change in Gross Reserves                                  104       146       105        355
Foreign investment                                        -28       -38       -4        -110
Net other liabilfties and short-term                      164       182        88        414
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                 1288      1049       780       3117
ANTICIPATED DISBURSEMENTS                                1288       960       637       2885
Grants                                                    277       245       190        712
tong-term lendIfn                                        867        587       394       1848
IDA 1/                                                 175        110        34        319
18RD                                                    130        55       130        315
ADB                                                     158       t42        95        395
Other Multilateral                                       72        70        56        198
silateral - concessional                                   60        30         15       105
- non-concessional                             111         64        30       205
Private                                                 161       116        34        311
Use of IMF resources                                     14        128        53        325
GAP                                                         0        89       143        232
Includes proposed Structural Adjustment Credit of US$ 125 million.



- 46 -
Zimbabwe: Priority Poverty Indicators
most Sr~8imashcomerfeup
25.30       15M290      rewt          Xb
(takof            yew          j'ews     dem""  Se har=              LO 
Indicaete                                  muaw                  a           ago        (mMw)         flcm                   grop
POVERTY
Uppa povoty line                           local cuw.                           ..        880
H.aAotm index                             %ofpop.                 ..           ..         40.
Lowerpovertyline                           lolcr.                  ..          ..         455
Headooua index                            %ofpop                  ..          ..          15s
GNPpercapita                                  USS                240          550         650          350         350        1,610
SHORT TERM INCOIE INDICATORS
Unsilled urban wages                       local                   ..r..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural urw ofu.ade
Cousumerprice index                        1987-100                17          24          177
Lowrinome*.........
Food                                                              1..          ..         18
Urban
Runl
SOCLAL INDICATORS
Public expedtre on bas social senrices     %ofoD?                   ..           .
Gross erolent rtio.
Pra,y                                   % school age pop.         110          73          125          70          113         100
.ale                                                             128          79          130          76         122          106
Femak                                                            92           67          126          60         106           98
MortaY
infantmtalWity                         tho  ivebirths           103           89          48          104          70           40
Under 5 morai..                                                                ..         57          177          98           53
immunization
Measle                                   %agegroup                ..           ..          74          40          73           70
DPrT                                          p                    _           ..         75           35          81           74
Childmalnutrition(under.5)                     ^                    ..          _           12
Life ertancy
Total                                       years                48           53           60          51          63           67
Fenales,Wmales                              rtio                1.07        1.07         1.05         1.06        0.95        1.08
Total fatityrue                         bit  per     n            8.O          7.2         4.7          6.4         3.7         3.5
Marl motlity rate                       100,000 live bint          ..           _           so
Population growth rate                        Infant mortality rate                        Primary enrollment
(pecn)                                  (ho aflive birts)                                 (pe)
6+.                                        250                                           120+~
5                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100
200
4                                                                                         80
150
3                                                                                         60
2                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
1                    50                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
mid 6Os    mid70s        are                      mid       70s      as                    ad60s    mid 70s       mm
Z Zuimbwe
__OW. iwocem



- 47 -
Zimbabwe: Resources And Expeditures
Moot Sousa riorAacoiWMgMou         Newt
25-30      15-20       raeat       Xvb-                  high.
Unit of           YU",       Yews    osakmot       Sob...         Low.      income
Indicaor                      ~~~~nseswe            ago       -ago        (tri)      AIieo      Lucome       growq
HUJMAN RESOURCES
Population (maot.l191)                   towusands           4.371       6,065      10.079    480.32   3,127.265      773,803
Agedeepndency raaio                        rato               1,06        1.07       0.91        0.97        0.66        0.71
Urban                                    % of pop.            14.4        19.4        22.0       28.7        40.1        53.9
Population giethrMt*                     azm"a                 3.8         2.8         2.8         3.0         1.9        1.7
ueban                                                         6.4         5.4         4.2         5.0         5.2        3.1
Labor (amc (1-644)                       thousrAn            1.16        2.575       4,046    203.947   1,448.104     302.448
Agriculture                            % of laboir force       79          75           .
1n&u&y                                                          S          10                      33                      3
Femnale                                                        38          37347332
Female per 100 males
Urban                                    number                 .           ..
Rural                                                           .           ..
NATURAL RESOURCES
Arna                                    *hou. sq. km          391         391         391       23,066     38,828      23,990
Densty                                 pop. per sq. km        11.0        16.0        24.0        20.0        77.0       31.0
Agiculuturaland                        % of landarea          18.0        19.1        19.8        51.0        47.4        41.8
chowg in agricAulur lan                  ai,iuJ                0.5         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Agricultural land under imngaton            %                  0.5         0.9         2.4         5.5        13.7        12.6
Foreft andwoodland                      thou. sq. ia:         211         203         192        6,651       9,197      5.396
Defbresraoa (net)                        annual %              0.4        .0.4        .0.4
INCOME
Household incoss
Share of top 20% of housebolds         % Of income             69           ..
Shar of bofttm 40%/ of households           -8                              ..
Share of bottom 20% of households           -3                              ..
L'CPLN4DITURE
Food                                     %Of ODP                 ..                   25.6
Staples                                     0.                              .5.8
Meat, ftI, mlk, chese, egg                  S.                                       12.0
C4realienport                        thou. metric tonna       1I0to                    83        7.838      36,008     44,418
Food aid in cereals                          0                                         1 3       2.677      6,669       4,047
Foodproduction per capit                197941-100              85        116          81          94         122         101
Fertiie osunto                             k&fha,             36.0        58.0        50.0        14.5        47.5       94.2
Shareofaic      ,0reinGD                 %ofODP               16.3        16.2        17.1        29.2        28.
HousIng                                  %ofGDP                  ...                   8.0-
Aveage household size               persons per housebold.                   ..
Ustan                                                           ..-
Fixedin-stmnmut-bousins                  %ofODP                 o...0.
FueAnmd peowe                            %ofGDP                  .                     3.2
Energyconsunsptioapercapitakg ofoilequiv.            441        394         531          100        350        1,249
Housieholds with electricity
Urban                                 % ofhouaehold             .           ..
Rural                                       S.                                          .
Transport and eownnnunlsl                % of GDP                .                     3.9
Fixed inveuns uasuport pipimnent            'S..                                       2.0
Total road length                           km                   .                  77.927
INVESTAMEN IN HUMAN CAPITAL
He"lt
Access to health cae                     %ofpop.                 .           ..
Populatin per phfuician,                  pesNs              8,005       6.300       7,1871         .
Populatonpernune                                              990         645         997           --
Populaton per hospital bed                                      ..        300        1.970       1.328       1,048        509
Access to safe wate                      % ofpop.               ...                     ..        36.7        70.6
Urban                                       *                   ,.                      .        74.3        79.3
Rural                                       0                   ,..                              24.2        62.8
Oral rehydrton theawy (under-S)          %*f oase               ...                    77          35          32
Oro" enrollmen ratio
Seconday                             % of Schoo1.agsPOpL         6          9          52          18          44          56
Female                                      a5                             742                     14         37
Pupil4eacher raiWo: primary           pupils per tseber         .4 1                  36          39          39          25
Pupil4eachwrrahiw: secondagy                 -                              I a1       27           -20
Pupilsremching rade4                     %Of cohort                        so 8        77          69 
RepeaWraWpdmsry             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% Oftot amirol  ..  .  .
Repate    pimr                       %Ofpop. (sreIS+)          61           ..33                   51          39
Female                              %offbau(SP l5..)            .                      40         62          52
Newspapecbvsrcuat                       perthou pop.            14          19          .,          S
Source: World Banlc lntetUrAtia  Economics Depaftnual, Apri 1993



-48 -
ANNEX IV
BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZIMBABWE
1.           Since fiscal year 1981, there have been 22 projects benefiting Zimbabwe, involving 18
Bank loans (US$776 million) and 6 IDA credits (US$253 million) totaling US$1029 million (net of
cancellations). Three projects (one of which included IDA and Bank financing) have supported the
industrial (US$146 million or 14%); three projects have helped finance energy development (US$150
million or 15%); five projects in the transport sector have focused on reconstruction and rehabilitation
activities, Including training and manpower development in the railways subsector and development and
maintenance of highways (US$150 million or 15%); two urban development projects have helped increase
the supply of low-cost housing and related services in the country's major urban and economic centers
(US$123 million or 12%); five projects have supported forestry and the reorientation of agricultural
services toward communal areas (US$101 million or 10%); two family health projects have supported
the expansion of population and basic health services (US$35 million or 3%); our first structural
adjustment operation (which is supported by a Bank loan and an IDA credit totalling US$175 million or
17%) has provided BOP support for the Govermnent's adjustment program; and an IDA Emergency
Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project (US$150 million or 159%) has provided assistance in the current
drought crisis.
2.          In fiscal year 1994, the Bank plans to finance a third power project, a small and
microenterprise project and an agriwultural services project.
3.          IFC has had a long-standing relationship with Zimbabwean borrowers dating back to
Independence. IFC has steadily increased the portfolio over the past several years to the current level
of US$153.6 million, being one of the most significant in the Sub-Saharan Africa Department. IFC is
involved in projects covering a wide range of industrial sectors including textiles (US$11.5 million),
tourism (US$10.3 million), agribusiness (US$3.7 million), mining (US$10 million), infrastructure
(US$16.7 million) and support of the financial sector (US$95 million). An additional US$23 million of
projects supporting the agribusiness sector have recently been approved. IFC intends to maintain and
expand involvement in Zimbabwe promoting private sector activities by: (a) developing sources of
foreign exchange generation, in the mining, tourism, agribusiness and general manufacturing sectors; (b)
improving efficiencies and generating productivity increases through new technology in the general
manufacturing sector; (c) improving competitiveness of viable state- owned companies through
privatization and restructuring; (d) encouraging development of existing financial insdtutions and
supporting the creation of new institutions which will meet the requirements of sectors not well served
by existing ones.



- 49 -
Run Tima: 06/03/93 at 15.28.53
ZINUASkE
Stati* Of Sank Group CparatIuns In ZNBABI
PFD8R25   Sumnry Statement Of Loam and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 4/30/93 - 1IS data as of 06/03/93)
By Country
Country:    ZIMABWE
Amount in US$ mitlion
(toss c@ne llatioM)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                                    Undis-  Closing
Credit No.      Year   Sorrouer                        PurPose                      Bank         IDA     bursed  Date
Credits
... ....5.3
4 CredIts(s) closed                                                                            53.30
C23310-ZtN     1992    ZI1FEUU                        SAP                                     50.00         .79  12/31/1993
C23990-ZIN     1992   2ZIMABAE                         EJERGENCY DROUGNT RE                   150.00     121.90 03/31/1994
TOTAL numier Credits *    2                                                                     200.00     122.69
Loas
13 Loan(s) closed                                                                  4S5.18
a)  L24450-Z2M     19S6    ZINIBABE                        UR8AN 1                     43.00                  12.5? 09/30/1993(
R) L25330-ZIN      1985    ZIMUA3E                         SSE I                       10.00                    1.S8  09/3011993M
R) L29000-ZIN      1988    ZIBABSIE                         PiER It                    44.00                   6.17  12/31/1993(
L29390-ZIn     1988    ZIMBABWE                        HIGH"YS II                  32.70                  18.05  06/30/1995
30630-ZIN     1989    ZINDAME                         AORI .CD. & EXPORT P        36.30                  18.65  12431/1995
L30790-ZIN     1989    ZINBAIE                         URANM hEC/REGNL OEV.        80.00                  73.30  12/31/1996
L31790-ZIM     1990    ZIMNASIE                        FOREST RESGURCE NGTS        14.50                  13.50 06/30/1998
L32730-ZIM     1991    ZINBABWE                        RAILWAYS II                 38.60                  28.39 06/30/1997
L33390-ZIN     1991    ZtMBASE                          FAANILY HLT4.II            25.00                  24.75  12/31/199?
L34340-ZIN     1992    219i6W                          SAP                        12S.00                  *4.99  12/31/1993
TOTAL numbr Loam n      10 s9.10                                                                           241.96
TOTAL***                                                          906.28       253.30
of tAich rqpaid                                                 259.84          .62
TOTAL held by Sunk & IDA                                          644.44       252.6
AusaDt so*d              70.32
of ,iAch repaId        70.32
TOTAL wdfsbure                                                                            364.66
Notes:
.....................
* Not yet offective
m aot yet sfned
e   -Total Aparoved. Repaymunts, ad outstaidue   balsn-e repnsaunt both active end inactive Loam   and Credits.
(R) indicates formtty revised Closir  Date.
(S) Indfcates SAL/SECAL Lowns and Credits.
The Not 4pWovad and Uedc Rcpqheonts aeV historical value,  ll othet  are mrokt valuo.
The SfunfnI, Effective, nd  clsfing dates ae bse6d upon the Lon Deprtment off et dota  nd ar  Mt taebn
from the Task Budgt4 fi,e.



- 50 -
Run Tim: 06/03/93 at 15.28.53
status Of Bank Group Operations In Z1M9ABAE
PFOOR25B - List of Closed SALs ard Secals
............................... ......................................................
By Country
Country:    ZINSADWE
Amount in USS million
(less canceLLations)
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                 Undis*  Closing
Credit No.  Year  Borroier                        Purpose                    Bank         IDA    bursed  Date
..........    ............. ............          ........                    . .... .    ....   . ... . . ......    ... .................
L22390-ZrN  1983   ZIMBABWE                       MANU.SECT.EXPORT PRO      70.60                    .00 07/30/1987(R)
Totat ZIMBA8E
70.60                   .00
Zimbabwe has a relatively small and recent portfolio owing to the limited lending program in the mid
and late 1980s. In recent years disbursements have been slower than the Bank average and we have
stepped up our use of procurement and disbursement workshops and training to improve the disbursement
rates. (A procurement specialist was resident in Zimbabwe for six weeks and the Bank is working widt
the Government to identify a long term consultant on procurement and disbursement.) Government's own
regulations and modes of operation have been a bottleneck, especially in the use of special accounts and
our loan department has been working with Government to try to amend these. lte Bank and SIDA have
been providing assistance to the Government in revamping their own procurement code. A country
review was held in Zimbabwe to discuss the Bank's work program and increase Government commitment
and ownership of our planned operations. Regular follow-up meetings have been held to continue the
dialogue on the country program.



