Report No. 1561c-MLI
Appraisal of the MOPTI 11 Rice Project Mali
FILE COPY
November 2, 1977
Agriculture Projects Department
West Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit     -          Mali Franc  (MF)
US$ 1             -          MF 490
MF  1             -          US$ 0.0020408
MF  I Million     -          US$ 2,041
Weights and Measures
I hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t) -           2,205 lbs.
Fiscal Year
Government                   Jan. 1 - Dec. 31
ORM                          Jan. 1 - Dec. 31
Abbreviations
ADF          African Developmeiit Fund
BDM          Banque de Developpement du Mali
DNAFLA       Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle et de
la Linguistique Appliquee
EDF          European Development Fund
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GERDAT       Groupement d'Etudes et de Recherches pour le Developpement de
l'Agronomie Tropicale
IDA          International Development Association
IER          Institut de l'Economie Rurale
IRAT         Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des
Produits Vivriers
OACV         Operation Arachides et Cultures Vivrieres
OPAM         Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
ORM          Operation Riz Mopti
RMWA         Regional Mission in Western Africa (of the World Bank/IDA)
RWD          Rural Works Department
SCAER        Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural
SCET         Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WARDA        West Africa Rice Development Association



Foa OFFIAL USE ONLY
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                             i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION  1........... .                     ............ .
II.    BACKGROUND       ..............   ......                              1
A.  General  ...............1...... 
B.  The Rural Sector  .                                              2
C.  Institutions in Agriculture            ....       ......         3
D.  Development Potential and Development Objectives .               4
E.  Cereals Consumption and Production ...............               5
III.   THE MOPTI I RICE PROJECT  .......... ....................             7
A.  The Project Area ........           .........................    7
B.  Project Description ..o ...........    .................         7
C.  Experiences and Conclusions ..............       ........        8
IV.    THE PROJECT  .                                                       10
A.  Description  . ...............          .    .    ....... .     10
B.  Detailed Features  ..........            .......                11
C.  Organization and Management.. .                                 14
D.  Environment and Health ................* ........               16
V.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  .........................               16
A.  Project Costs  ............                                     16
B.  Financing  ....  .00.......  ......                             18
C.  Procurement .......... ..           ...... ...........          19
D.  Disbursement ........... .......... ..            ...... . .    20
E.  Accounts, Audits and Reports ...  .          ..................  21
VI.     PRODUCTION AND YIELDS; MARKETS AND PRICES; FARMERS'
BENEFITS; ORM FINANCES; GOVERNMENT REVENUE            ............  21
A.  Production and Yields           ...........................     21
B.  Markets and Prices                 ......................       23
C.  Farmers' Benefits  ........   ....... .....                     24
D.  Financial Implications for ORM and Government .....             25
VII.   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ..................               25
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............         ..      27
The doumeet ha a retric_e ditrbuom an may be use by rcipients only in the peftonce
at * ociul duties I%s wefa   y gm oewise be dit_osed without Wod Dek autborizution.






MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
ANNEXES
1.   Rice Production and Consumption in Mali
Table 1 - Development of Rice Consumption in Mali, Total and
Per Capita
Table 2 - Per Capita Rice Consumption (Kg) in West African
Countries
Table 3 - Regional Structure of OPAM Cereals Purchases and Sales
(1000 t)
Table 4 - Rice Milling Capacity (Tons of Paddy)
2.   The Project Area
3.   Rice Cultivation Under Controlled Flooding
4.   The Mopti I Rice Project (Cr. 277-MLI)
Table 1 - Development of Cultivable Area Estimates of Mopti I
Rice Project
Table 2 - Development of Attributed, Sown and Harvested Area,
Yields and Paddy Production of the Mopti I Project
Table 3 - Development of Equipment on Mopti I Rice Farms
Table 4 - Mopti I Rice Project: Breakdown of Participants by
Farmers and Non-Farmers
Table 5 - Distribution of Holdings per Family in the Mopti I
Rice Project (1975/76)
Table 6 - Adoption of Cultivation Techniques in the Mopti I
Rice Project
Table 7 - Cultivated Area and Cultivation Techniques Used in
1976/77 in the Mopti I Rice Project
5.   Project Components
Table 1 - Program of Civil Works
Table 2 - Program of Deep Ploughing (ha)
Table 3 - Construction of Offices, Houses, Sheds and Stores
Appendix I - Functional Literacy Campaign
Table 1 - Costs of Adult Literacy Program
Appendix II - Applied Agricultural Research
Appendix III - Agricultural Credit
Table 1 - Agricultural Credit Needs
Appendix IV - Terms of Reference for Technical Assistants



6.   Assistance to the Rural Works Department, Bamako
Table ' - Budget of Study Bureau, Rural Works Department
Table 2 - Assistance to Rural Works Department - Proposed
Utilization of Funds
7.   Project Cost Estimate
Table I  - Project 'ost - Summary Table
Table 2  - Project :.ost - Civil Works
Table 3  - Project 'ost - Deep Ploughing
Table 4  - Project  ost - Buildings
Table 5  - Project Cost - Engineering and Supervision
Table 6  - Project (:ost - Vehicles and Equipment
Table 7  - Project 'lost - Adult Literacy Campaign and Audio-
Visual Program
Table 8  - Project lost - ORM Staff and Technical Assistance
Table 9  - Project Cost - ORM Operating Costs
Table 10 - Project (ost - On-Farm Investment
Table 11 - Project Cost - Assistance to Study Bureau of Rural
Works Department
Table 12 - Project (ost - Price Contingency Factors
8.   Financing Plan and SchedlIe of Disbursements
Table 1 - Financinc Plan
Table 2 - Estimatec Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Cultivated Areas, Yields, Production
Table I  - Development of Area (ha), Yield (t/ha) and
Productioa (t ) - with Project
Table 2  - Developmeat of Area (hectares), Yield (t/ha),
and Production (t) - without Project
Table 3  - Adoption Rates of Cultivation Techniques
Table 4  - Cultivate:  Areas and Paddy Production with and
without tie Project
10. Market Prospects for Maliin Rice
Table 1  - Estimate :)f Domestic Paddy Requirements in Mali,
1970/71 - 1985/86
Table 2  - Estimate of Domestic Production of Paddy 1968/69
1985/86 (wvithout the Project)
Table 3  - Estimate of Prospective Demand and Supply Relations
on Mali R:.-ce Market, 1975/76-1987/88 (in 1000t of
paddy)
Table 4a - Export Paiity Price
Table 4b - Import Sulstitution Price
Table 5  - Developme t of the Rice Marketing Bareme for ORM,
1974/75 - 977/78



11. Farm Budgets
Table 1 - Unit Costs of Farm Inputs (FM)
Table 2 - Labor and Equipment Input of Farming Operations
(days/ha)
Table 3 - Inputs, Yields, and Revenue per Ha at Successive
Stages of Cultivation Techniques
Table 4 - Land Rent and Development Levies - Rent Recovery Rates
12.  Financial Implications for ORM and Government
Table 1 - Projection of ORM Revenue and Expenditure,
1978-1987
Table 2 - Import Subsidies Saved by Incremental Production
(in FM/t)
Table 3 - Impact of Project on Government Revenue
Table 4 - Cost Recovery Index and Fiscal Ratio
13. Economic Justification
Appendix I - Conversion Factors for Costs in Local Currency
Table 1 - Correlation of Input Costs and Yields per Hectare
Table 2 - Incremental Production Costs
Table 3 - Incremental Farm Labor Inputs
Table 4 - Rate of Return Calculation
Implementation Schedule, Project Works
Project Map






MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
(i)       The Government of Mali has requested IDA, the African Development
Fund (ADF) and French aid (FAC) to finance a rice development project in the
Niger flood plains around Mopti. The project will build on the on-going
Mopti Rice Project (Credit 277-MLI), which will terminate in mid-1978.
(ii)      Mali is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Popula-
tion is 6 million and per capita income about US$95. The economy, dependent
on crop production (cotton, groundnuts, cereals) and animal husbandry,
suffered severely from the droughts of the early seventies; in recent years,
exports of groundnuts and cotton have increased considerably while the
livestock subsector has not yet overcome the effects of the drought years.
Production of food crops (coarse grains and rice) has responded vividly to
better weather conditions and higher producer prices. Over the last few
years, Mali has not been in need of cereals imports and has even exported
modest amounts of coarse grains and rice to neighboring countries. Mali has
a heavy deficit both in its national budget and in its balance of payments
and no fundamental change is foreseen in this situation over the medium
term future.
The First Mopti Rice Project
(iii)     The First Mopti Rice Project, which became operational in 1972,
aims at the improvement of rice cultivation conditions and techniques in the
Niger flood plains. Main project components are the construction of polders
(13,000 ha) along the Niger and Bani rivers, the rehabilitation of existing
polders (18,000 ha), construction of offices, stores, workshops, etc. and
technical assistance for the project authority, the Operation Riz Mopti (ORM).
Total project cost was estimated at US$9.4 million at appraisal; the partici-
pation of IDA was US$6.9 million, the participation of FAC 0.7 million. A
supplementary IDA credit of US$2.6 million was approved in 1975 to offset the
effects of the dollar devaluation and to finance changes in project design and
certain cost overruns. FAC also increased its contribution by US$0.5 million.
(iv)      Civil works were virtually completed in early 1977 but the drought
years demonstrated the need for a revision of design standards which led
to a reduction of the cultivable area from 31,000 ha to 26,000 ha. ORM's
performance, satisfactory in other respects, needs to be improved for exten-
sion work, applied research, farm machinery use and seed farm management.
Yield increases have been attributable mainly to the rapid adoption of
improved rice varieties while cultivation techniques, in particular weeding
practices, have remained close to the traditional extensive style the farmers



- ii -
practised before joining the proje:zt.  The 1976/77 campaign brought some en-
couraging progress, however. The reduction in cultivable area and increase
in project cost have been offset b7 a substantial increase in the economic
price of rice and tLe project is eepected to show a rate of return close to
the 14% estimated at appraisal.  Tie project has a substantial impact on
the region's economy, and demands "or land allocation far exceed the avail-
able areas developed under Credit 277-NLI.
Description of the Mopti II Rice P::oject
(v)       The project aims at a modest expansion of the area under cultiva-
tion through construction of new p.lders; the improvement of rice cultivation
conditions and techniques in the new polders as well as in the existing ones;
and the strengthening of the projec.t authority ORM. At full development, it
would reach a population of about 10,000 in an area with few alternative
economic opportunities. The proje:t consist of:
-    constructi.on of four polc!ers with a total area of 8,800 ha;
-    some improvements of polcers developed under Credit 277-MLI;
-    deep ploughing of the neu polders as well as of about 14,300 ha
in existirng polders;
-    construction of storage facilities for paddy, farm inputs
and farm equipment, of wcrkshops, training centers, offices
and staff houses;
-    acquisition of farm machinery, civil works maintenance
equipment, ferries, vehicles, workshop and office equipment;
-    establishment of an adult literacy program for villages in
the project area and an aidio-visual program to be used by
extension services;
-    applied agricultural reseairch;
-    agricultural credit for fErtilizer and farm implements; and
-    technical assistance for -project management, and ORM staff
and operating costs to the extent that they are attributable
to the expansion of the p:-oject area.
The project will also provide for arsistance to the Study Bureau of the Rural
Works Department (RWD) in Bamako, c nsisting of an extension to existing
offices, acquisition of equipment, (.nd funds for irrigation project studies.
The project will begin in mid-1978 znd extend over 5 years.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
(vi)      Total project cost including taxes is estimated at US$31.2 million
of which the foreign exchange comporent would be US$19.0 million or 61%;



- iii -
project cost net of taxes is estimated at US$26.3 million. Physical and
price contingencies amount to 35% of base costs estimated in prices of
December 1977.
(vii)     The IDA credit would be for US$15.0 million and would finance 57%
of project costs net of taxes. It would cover 59% of foreign exchange costs
and 53% of local costs net of taxes. Mali will receive further assistance
from FAC (US$2.0 million; joint financing with IDA) and ADF (US$6.0 million;
parallel financing). A condition of effectiveness of the Credit is the ful-
fillment of all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the FAC
grant. The IDA credit would be made to Government, who would pass it on to
ORM as a grant. Government would finance part of staff and operating ex-
penditure, subsidies on farm inputs, and taxes evaluated at US$4.9 million.
Without taxes, Government's contribution would be 5% of project cost. Farm-
ers would contribute US$1.9 million for farm inputs. In order to expedite
project implementation, a revolving fund of US$0.6 million will be set up at
the Banque de Developpement du Mali for the prefinancing of project expenditure
to be financed by IDA. Retroactive financing of up to US$70,000 would be
provided for the extension to the building of the RWD Study Bureau, which will
be constructed before signature of the Credit Agreement.
Procurement and Disbursement
(viii)    Contracts for vehicles and equipment and for civil works and deep
ploughing to be financed jointly by IDA and FAC would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Con-
tracts for the construction of houses, offices, workshops and stores would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accord-
ance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Miscellaneous items of equip-
ment and furniture up to a contract value of US$50,000 would be procured on
the basis of local competitive bidding. For contracts of less than US$20,000
direct procurement on the basis of several quotations would be used. Items
financed by ADF would be procured according to ADF procedures.
(ix)      The IDA credit would be disbursed to cover civil works and deep
ploughing not covered by the ADF credit, buildings, vehicles and equipment,
engineering and supervision, technical assistance, assistance to RWD, agri-
cultural credit and part of incremental staff and operating expenditure of
ORM.
Organization and Management
(x)       Except for the assistance to RWD, the project will be carried out
by ORM. Technical assistance would be increased to its 1976 level of four
professionals but the profile of technical assistance will be redefined to
ensure maximum support for the critical areas of ORM activities, such as
extension work, use of farm machinery, seed farm management and applied
research.
(xi)      The adult literacy program will be implemented by ORM with the
support of the Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle et de
la Linguistique Appliquee (DNAFLA). Agricultural research will be carried out



- iv -
by ORM with scientific guidance from the Institut d'Economie Rurale and the
West Africa Rice Development Asscociation. The agricultural credit fund will
be administered by ORM once responsibility for providing farmers with inputs
and credit is transferred to that agency in the first half of 1978. Execution
of civil works, deep ploughing and constrction of buildings will be supervised
by the Rural Works Department (RED) which has worked out an agreement with ORM
spelling out arrangements for precurement of equipment, hiring of personnel and
schedules of disbursements to ORN to RWD. This agreement has been approved by
IDA.  Assistance to RAD will be implemented directly through the Ministry of
Rural Development, of which RWD is a part.
Production, Yields, Markets
(xii)     The project would lead to an incremental production of 34,000 tons
of paddy, of which 15,000 tons would originate from the new polders and the
remainder from existing polders that would be improved under the project.
Yields would rise, on average, to 2.00 t/ha while without the project, yields
would be 0.7 t/ha in traditional zultivation and about 1.8 t/ha in the Mopti I
polders. The project would help to fill the supply gap projected for the
early 'eighties; until that time, it would provide a desirable safety margin
against shortfalls in domestic supplies that are likely to occur from time
to time, with varying severity, because of poor rainfall and flood levels.
Any remaining surplus that would not be absorbed by domestic demand could be
accumulated for the reserve stock which Government plans to build up as a
protection against future droughts. In consequence, the economic price of
rice has been based on the import substitution price. The share of produc-
tion marketed by official channels (45 percent) would be consumed in Bamako
while the remainder would be home--consumed or sold through private trading
channels.
Farmers' Benefits, ORM Revenue, Government Budget
(xiii)    Farmers would benefit from the much higher security of flooding in
the polders compared to cultivation under uncontrolled flooding. Farmers'
income from rice cultivation woulc. rise from US$100 per family in traditional
cultivation to US$370 in the most representative case and up to US$500 if
fertilizer is used. Without the project, most farmers in the Mopti I project
area would stagnate at incomes of about US$300. This projection is based on
Government's assurance that the producer price of paddy will be increased
from MF 45/kg to MF 50/kg in 1978 and will thereafter be periodically re-
vised so as to provide sufficient incentive to farmers.
(xiv)     Government agreed to gradually raise the development levy from
presently 160 kg of paddy per ha to 240 kg/ha in 1982. With these levies and
with statutory reimbursements from the rice marketing agency, ORM is expected
to meet its recurrent expenditure including equipment renewal and to recover
about 35% of investment.
(xv)      Government would save important consumer subsidies on rice imports
which would become necessary, without the project, towards 1983. The net



v
savings would amount to US$1.1 million annually at full development. If
Government's net savings on subsidies are taken into account, 90% of total
project cost would be recovered.
Economic Justification and Risk
(xvi)     The economic rate of return of the project is estimated to be 18%
over 25 years.
(xvii)    The project's main risk is inherent in the system of controlled
flooding which depends both on sufficient and timely rainfall and on sufficient
and timely flooding. Although the flooding probability will be much enhanced
as a consequence of the project, a residual uncertainity remains. This is the
price to pay for an otherwise very economic production system. The sensitivity
test shows that the rate of return would still be acceptable even if benefits
were 20% lower than projected.
Recommendation
(xviii) With the assurances and condition indicated in Chapter VIII, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit on standard terms of US$15.0 million
equivalent to the Government of Mali.



I



IALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mali has requested IDA assistance for the financ-
ing of an extension to the on-going Mopti Rice Project (Credit 277-MLI) which
is scheduled to terminate on May 31, 1978. The Mopti II Rice Project was pre-
pared by the Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER) of the Ministry of Rural Devel-
opment in Bamako with funds made available for this purpose under Credit 277-
MLI and with the assistance of the Bank's Regional Mission in Western Africa
(RMWA). The feasibility study prepared by IER was submitted in August 1975.
It comprised an area of 40,000 ha; however, because of possible market limi-
tations over the medium term, the project aims at an expansion of only 8,800
ha besides consolidation of areas developed under Credit 277-ELI and strength-
ening of the project authority. It would benefit a population of 90,000 in
an area with few alternative employment opportunities.
1.02      The project would be the sixth IDA credit to Malian agriculture.
Progress of the five on-going projects is satisfactory. Implementation of
the first Mopti Rice Project is discussed in paras. 3.01 - 3.12 below.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission com-
prising Messrs. R. Gusten and P. Streng (IDA), H. Boumendil and R. Chateau
(Consultants), which visited Mali in November 1976.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Mali has a popula5ion of 6.0 million (1976) distributed over a
large area (1.24 million km ) of which more than half is desert. Less
than 25 percent of the territory receives more than 500 mm of rainfall
in normal years and is suitable for crop production. About 75 percent of
the population lives in this area; the remainder is concentrated in the
Niger flood plains or consists of cattle-rearing nomads.
2.02      With a per capita income of US$95 (1975), Mali is one of the 25
least developed countries. Real growth of GDP averaged 3.7 percent annually
in the four pre-drought years 1969-1972. As a consequence of the drought,
GDP fell in 1973 and stagnated in 1974 but production recovered in the fol-
lowing two years; for the period 1973-1976 which covers the drought and post-
drought years, real growth of GDP again averaged 3.7 percent annually. Pop-
ulation growth being officially estimated at 2.7 percent annually, this
corresponds to an increase in GDP per capita of only 1 percent annually.



- 2 -
2.03      While production and ex3orts, with the exception of cattle, reco-
vered satisfactorily from the drolght years, the country's balance of pay-
ment deficit gap widened as a consequence of international inflation and
in 1976 was US$33 million.  The budget deficit also has increased in recent
years and was nearly US$21 million in 1975 and US$20 million in 1976. This
persistent disequilibrium makes it difficult for Mali to make a significant
contribution to the financing of development projects. Since no fundamental
change can be anticipated for the next few years, it is imperative that agri-
cultural development projects are financially as selfsufficient as possible.
B. The Rural Sector
2.04      About 90 percent of Mali's population depends for its livelihood
on agriculture and allied pursuits, which accounted for 38 percent of GDP
in 1975. Agriculture contributes half, animal husbandry two-fifths, and
forestry and fisheries combined one tenth of the value added in the primary
sector. Exports consist almost ertirely of raw or processed agricultural
commodities and livestock. Cottorn, the single most important foreign exchange
earner, accounts for more than 30 percent of the value of exports, which is
nearly as much as the combined exyort proceeds from groundnuts and livestock,
the other major export commodities.
2.05      There are some 2 millior, ha under permanent cultivation, 90% of
which is rainfed, the rest irrigated. Rainfed cultivation is practiced on
small family farms. About 80% of the 435,000 farms have 5 ha of land or
less. About 90% of the area under rainfed cultivation is under cereal crops
(millet and sorghum); most of the rest is allocated to cotton and ground-
nuts, the main cash and export crops. Of the 200,000 ha under irrigated
cultivation, some 100,000 ha are cultivated traditionally by unassisted
farmers and the rest within "Operations de Developpement" (para. 2.09) where
improved methods are applied. The oldest of these production schemes is the
"Office du Niger", originally established in 1929 for the production of irri-
gated cotton to supply the French textile industry; at present all irrigated
lands in the Office du Niger (40,000 ha) are under rice save 1,300 hectares,
which are under sugar cane. No cotton is presently grown under irrigation.
2.06      Until recently, development efforts were directed mostly at export
crops while cereals, particularly millet and sorghum, suffered from compara-
tive neglect. Adequate extension services were organized for cotton and
groundnuts which were also provided with marketing facilities, fertilizers and
other improved inputs. Only a small portion of the area under rainfed cereal
crops benefited from similar development programs. Producer prices for export
crops too were set at more remunerative levels than those for cereals. Past
emphasis on cotton and groundnuts is reflected in production trends during
recent years: Production of cereals declined from 1.1 million tons in 1967/68
to an average of 0.8 million tons ,luring the drought years 1972/73 and 1973/74
while seed cotton output increased from 42,000 to 65,000 tons and the ground-
nut crop fell slightly from 118,000 tons to 104,000 tons.



-3 -
2.07      Agricultural production increased substantially over the last
three years as a result of good rainfall and higher producer prices for
both cash and food crops. Total rainfall was above average in 1974/75,
average in 1975/76 and about average, but with an unfavorable distribu-
tion, in 1976/77. Production of cereals, including paddy, is estimated
to have risen to 1.15 million tons in 1974/75 and 1.2 million in 1975/76
and 1976/77. Cotton and groundnut crops in 1975/76 reached the unprece-
dented level of 103,000 and 200,000 tons, respectively. Cotton production
in 1976/77 maintained the preceding year's level in spite of less favorable
weather conditions while groundnut production fell by some 15% as a conse-
quence of the decreasing attractiveness of the official producer price.
2.08      Mali's livestock population (some 5.5 million cattle and 11
million sheep and goats in the early seventies) was reduced by 15-20
percent as a consequence of the drought years of 1972/73 and 1973/74.
Losses were most severe in the eastern part of the country. Herds are
being rebuilt but exports are not expected to reach pre-drought levels
before the mid- eighties.
C. Institutions in Agriculture
2.09      Agriculture is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Devel-
opment. Since 1969, the Ministry has delegated important functions to the
so-called Operations de Developpement, institutions charged with agricul-
tural development in specific regions and enjoying a considerable amount
of financial and managerial autonomy. They distribute inputs to farmers and
provide extension services, training and credit as well as marketing services
for export crops and part of the food crops. Operations may be crop-specific,
as in the case of rice or cattle, or deal with all major crops grown in a
region. In the case of crop-specific Operations, there may be several Opera-
tions for the same crop, each of them responsible for a certain area.
2.10      Rice development is mainly in the hands of the Operation Riz Segou
(financed by EDF), the Operation Riz Mopti (financed by IDA) and the Office
du Niger, which is not an Operation but enjoys an even larger degree of
autonomy. Minor rice developments are under way in the IDA-financed Mali
Sud agricultural project and the USAID-financed Action Riz-Sorgho in the 6th
Region (Gao).
2.11      Marketing of cereals is the responsibility of OPAM (Office des
Produits Agricoles du Mali) which has the monopoly for domestic and foreign
trade with cereals. However, OPAM is not able to enforce its monopoly in
the domestic market; it handles most of the marketed quantity of rice but
only a fraction of the marketed surplus of coarse grains. Until 1974, offi-
cial producer prices were well below the free market price; as a consequence,
OPAM purchased only marginal quantities of coarse grains and most of the rice
originating in the Office du Niger, where farmers cannot escape the official



-4-
marketing channel. Private trader, are officially banned from wholesaling
cereals but have been tolerated recently as attempts to eliminate them have
failed. OPAM buys rice from the Of-fice du Niger and the Operations according
to price schedules established annually in a negotiation process between the
rice producing entities and Governmient agencies. These schedules ("baremes")
specify the charges for collection, bagging, losses, and milling which are
reimbursed to the selling entity.
2.12      Supply of farm inputs anc farm equipment is the responsibility of
SCAER (Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural). Both annual inputs
and equipment have been sold at subsidized prices, the subsidy being financed
mainly from levies on cotton and groundnuts exports. As indicated by its
name, SCAER also provides agricultural credit for the purchase of farm equip-
ment, but only to farmers covered by the activities of Operations de Devel-
oppement. SCAER does not maintain field offices but relies on the Operations
for the distribution of inputs, the sale of equipment and the recovery of
credit extended. The Operations perceive a percentage of the turnover as a
fee.  The steep rise in the price of farm implements over the last few years
forced SCAER to end subsidization of equipment sales in 1976 and to reduce
subsidies on annual inputs such as fertilizer. Because of budgetary diffi-
culties, Government considers further reducing and eventually eliminating
subsidies on farm inputs.
2.13      Because of SCAER's difficulties, in recent years, in carrying out
the functions assigned to it, Government envisages transferring responsibil-
ity for the supply of inputs and equipment to the individual Operations de
Developpement before the 1978/79 caripaign. The Association has been asked
to advised Government on this issue and on related matters such as agricul-
tural credit and the restructuring of output and input prices.
0-
2.14      Agricultural research in k[ali is coordinated by the Institut d'
Economie Rurale of the Ministry of Rural Development. Most agricultural
research is carried out by French research institutes organized in the
Groupement d'Etudes et de Recherches pour le Developpement de l'Agronomie
Tropicale (GERDAT). Rice research was, until 1976, the responsibility
of the Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et de Cultures
Vivrieres (IRAT), which operated two research stations for floating rice
and non-floating rice, respectively. As from 1976, the West Africa Rice
Development Association (WARDA) has assumed responsibility for research on
floating rice varieties.
D. Development Potential and Development Objectives
2.15      In terms of domestic resources spent per unit of foreign exchange
earned or saved, Mali has a clear comnparative advantage in the production of
cattle, cotton, and groundnuts (in that order).  Compared to other Sahelian
countries, Mali has a well above ave:-age endowment of cultivable land with
more than 800 mm of rainfall (90 percent probability) where rainfed cotton and



-5-
groundnuts can be grown under satisfactory conditions, and nearly two thirds
of the country's area outside the Sahara is suitable for animal husbandry of
varying intensity. Foodcrops like millet and sorghum can also be grown with
a reasonable degree of security in the zone with more than 800 mm of rainfall
which covers 5.5 million hectares of cultivable land.
2.16      The Government of Mali has decided to give increased attention to
the promotion of food crops in order to achieve self-sufficiency not only in
normal years but also in years of insufficient rainfall. The current Five
Year Plan (1974-1978) reflects the Government's determination to prevent a
recurrence of the food shortage experienced in 1972/73 and 1973/74. The
plan's development objectives with regard to agriculture are:
-    to achieve self-sufficiency in food production;
-    to generate adequate supplies of agricultural raw materials
for industrial processing; and
-    to ensure increasing surpluses of primary products for
exports.
Food crops are to take first place in public investment. The emphasis on
protecting producers and consumers against climatic hazards has resulted in
a strong bias towards irrigated agriculture i.e. rice production: not less
than 85 percent of total allocations for food production are set aside for
rice and only 15 percent for millet and sorghum, by far the country's most
important food crop (80 percent of cereal consumption).
2.17      The plan's emphasis on food production projects follows from the
decision that security of food supplies ranks higher than optimal allocation
of resources from a strict domestic resource cost point of view. However,
the long-term rice requirements have been overestimated (para. 2.21).
E. Cereals Consumption and Production
2.18      Mali produces, and consumes, 1.1 - 1.2 million tons of cereals
(including seed requirements and losses) in years of normal rainfall, of
which about 80 percent are millet and sorghum, about 10 percent rice, and
the remainder maize and wheat. Millet, sorghum and maize are grown exclu-
sively under rainfed conditions. Except for drought years, Mali is self-
sufficient in these staple crops. Wheat requirements (12,000 tons of flour
annually) are now covered by imports, but wheat cultivation is under way,
on an experimental basis, in the Zone Lacustre in the Niger Delta.
2.19      Most of the country's one million tons of coarse grains produced
in normal years are home-consumed by growers or exchanged at the local level.
About 15 percent are estimated to enter the market which is shared by OPAM
and private traders. Per capita consumption of coarse grains is 150-160 kg



-6-
on average, but only about half that amount among nomads, rice growers, and
the higher income groups in the few major towns. The last two groups sub-
stitute rice for coarse grains (btLt mostly only to the extent of one meal
out of two) while the nomads complement millet by milk products.
2.20      Rice consumption is estimated at 120,000 tons in 1976.  Rice costs
more than twice as much as millet or sorghum and is still a luxury or semi-
luxury for a large part of Mali's low-income population. Overall per capita
consumption has remained stable at a level of 20 kg/year over the last 15
years; in most of the country, however, annual consumption is in the range
of only 3 - 5 kg/head, i.e. at the same level as in neighboring Upper Volta
and Niger, countries with comparalle per capita income levels but without
significant domestic rice production. Rice consumption and production are
further discussed at Annex 1.
2.21      The Five Year Plan projects an increase in per capita consumption
of rice from the pre-drought level of 20 kg to 28 kg in 1978, 48 kg in
1983, and 79 kg in 1990. The implicit annual growth rate of 8 percent (per
capita) is incompatible with the increases in real income that appear possible
in Mali over this horizon, and with accepted orders of magnitude of income
elasticity of demand. Per capita rice consumption may be expected to grow
by not more than 2 percent annually, and total rice consumption, consequently,
by less than 5 percent annually. This corresponds to some 6,000 tons of
rice annually at the 1976 level of consumption.
2.22      Paddy production has increased steeply in the post-drought years
as the consequence of three factors:
-    some 55,000 ha of polders have been developed by the
Operation Riz Segou and Operation Riz Mopti; these
polders, vulnerable to law river water levels, have
come into full productioa for the first time in the
post-drought year 1974/75;
-    the Office du Niger has achieved an increase in effi-
ciency and output;
-    finally, the 1974 increase in the producer price by
60 percent (from MF 25 tn MF 40 per kg of paddy) in-
duced farmers to expand sowings and increase their
efforts.
2.23      As a consequence, Mali reached self-sufficiency in 1975/76 and
1976/77 and even produced a surplus estimated at 20-25,000 tons of paddy
in each of these years. Most of this surplus could be disposed of in 1977
when a drought in the Sudano-Guinean zone provided an opportunity to export
Malian rice, and even paddy, to Ivory Coast and Togo.
2.24      Without the proposed pro;ject, a deficit in domestic paddy production
is projected to emerge not later than 1982, well before the project would have
reached full production; in the short run, Mali could remain self-sufficient
in rice and, under continuously favorable conditions, even produce a marginal



-7-
surplus. This is not likely to happen, however, because of the various
contingencies surrounding this hypothesis:
-    fluctuations in the unstable Malian weather condi-
tions may cause shortfalls in production well before
the early eighties and are almost certain to do so at
least in one or several years;
-    incremental production may be less than projected due
to possible delays in the implementation of ongoing
projects; and
-    projected production trends are based on the hypothesis
that Government keeps official producer prices at a
level which maintains farmers' economic incentive.
Thus, while the proposed project would help to fill the gap in domestic
supplies forecast for the early 'eighties, it would, at the same time,
provide a desirable safeguard against production shortfalls in the near
future. Market prospects for rice are further discussed at Chapter VI B.
III. THE MOPTI I RICE PROJECT
A. The Project Area
3.01      The project is in the Niger flood plains which extend over more
than 500 km with widths varying between 150 km and 200 km. Flood levels are
sufficiently shallow to allow cultivation of submerged rice. Farmers culti-
vate about 2 ha of rice and on average 1.4 ha of rainfed land for millet and
some secondary crops. About 100,000 ha of paddy are estimated to be culti-
vated by traditional extensive methods in the flood plains. A description
of the project area is at Annex 2, and a description of cultivation methods
under uncontrolled and controlled flooding at Annex 3.
B. Project Description
3.02      The first Mopti Rice Project aims at the increase of rice produc-
tion through the construction and rehabilitation of polders along the Bani
and Niger rivers, and at the improvement of rice cultivation techniques
through the introduction of successive packages of improved inputs, imple-
ments and practices. At appraisal the project was expected to cover 31,100 ha
and to reach 7,300 farm families. For details of project content and project
execution, see Annex 4.
3.03      At appraisal, total project cost including taxes was estimated to
be US$9.4 million; the IDA contribution was US$6.9 million while French aid
(FAC) financed technical assistance (US$0.7 million) provided by consultants



- 8 -
(SCET International of France). A supplementary IDA credit of US$2.6 mil-
lion was ma¢_ n 1975 to cov :r tuie effects of the dollar devaluation, minor
changes in project design and cost increases. FAC also increased its con-
tribution by US$0.5 million.
3.04      The project is executed ly the Operation Riz Mopti, an Operation
de Developpement (para. 2.09) whicl. has its headquarters in Sevare near
Mopti. Total staff was 318 in 1977. Project implementation started on
June 1, 1972. The project terminates on May 31, 1978.
C. Experiences and Conclusions
3.05      During its initial two yfars, the project was heavily affected by
the severe drought in the Sahel. i.s a consequence of the experience of the
drought years, the net cultivable E.rea of each polder was redefined in order
to arrive at a probability of inun(ation of 0.95; this resulted in a reduc-
tion of the project area from 31,1(0 ha to 26,200 ha, or by 15%. In the
post-drought years, development of cultivated area was close to revised
appraisal estimates. Yields were in line with appraisal estimates but this
is only due to the fact that adoptJon of improved rice varieties has been
universal and much ahead of projections. In other respects, cultivation
techniques have been stagnant; thiE applies in particular to weeding prac-
tices. This has caused infestatior of several polders with wild rice.
Reclamation by ORM and individual farmers has been initiated over the last
2 years.
3.06      Average holdings are only 2.4 ha against 4.0 ha estimated at
appraisal. With their elementary equipment, most farmers cannot cope with
larger areas. A corollary of this development is that the number of par-
ticipating families by far exceeds the number anticipated at appraisal
(nearly 9,000 in 1976/77 against 7,300 estimated by the Appraisal Report
at full development).
3.07      An unexpected development was the high percentage of non-farmers
among the participants (Table 4), particularly in the polders close to the
town of Mopti. No clear-cut pattern emerges regarding the performance of
these civil servants, traders, artisans, etc. but the 1976/77 campaign has
shown that these holdings experience .acute labor bottlenecks at harvesting
as most or all work is done by hired labor. A high percentage of non-farmers
is also undesirable from the point of view of income distribution since one
of the main objectives of the project was to provide economic opportunities
for farmers and not to improve the conditions of those who already have means
of livelihood that are generally above the regional average. Consequently,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that farmers will have priority
in land allocations under the project.
3.08      While the average farm size (2.4 ha) is well below appraisal esti-
mate (4 ha), it appears that a small percentage of participants occupy inor-
dinately large holdings - up to more than 20 ha (Table 5). While the total



- 9 -
percentage of farmers with holdings exceeding 5 ha is moderate (6%), the
area occupied by these large farms is quite substantial (21%, or more than
4,500 ha). Although no data are available which allow to correlate yields
to farm size it is thought that these holdings may be a major factor con-
tributing to the stagnation of cultivation techniques and yields in 1975/76.
Assurances were obtained, therefore, at negotiations that in the new polders
to be developed not more than 2 ha would be allotted per active male family
member.
3.09      The problems encountered by the first Mopti Rice Project are partly
inevitable learning costs:
-    The shortcomings of the original design of polders (Annex
3) are a case in point. Operation of the polders in the
first years showed that the design has been excessively
cost-saving and that without a higher degree of flooding
probability farmers cannot be induced to incur monetary
costs for the inputs and equipment required for higher
yields.
-    The stagnation in cultivation techniques can partly be
attributed to the discouraging effect of the two drought
years and its retarding influence on extension work. The
particular risk associated with cultivation under uncon-
trolled and even controlled flooding is a further factor
contributing to slow progress in cultivation techniques
involving cash outlays.
-    However, the mediocre results must also be ascribed to
weaknesses in ORM's organization of extension work. The
ratio of extension workers to farmers is fully sufficient
but extension staff is tied up to a considerable degree
in statistical work and, in a crucial period of the agri-
cultural year, in assisting marketing operations.
-    The project management has failed to establish a dialogue
with farmers and relies on the passing down of directives
explained in the classroom to extension staff, and handed
on by these. No demonstration plots, operated by ORM or by
farmers, have been initiated. The mass of participating
farmers remains largely unstructured, and no channels were
opened by which farmers' reactions and reservations can be
collected and used. (An Evaluation Unit was created in
early 1977 only).
3.10      ORM's presently high staff and operating cost per ha or per ton
is not immediately significant because the project has not yet reached full
development. However, when the project reaches full development these costs
will still be equivalent to nearly 400 kg of paddy per ha. Part of these
costs will be covered by remunerations for services rendered to farmers



- 10 -
(threshing, line-sowing, sale of improved seed) or to OPAM (reimbursement
for collection and transport of paddy) but an increase of the development
levies above the level envisaged at appraisal (180 kg of paddy per ha at
full development) will be necessary. Even so, ORM will be able to cover
only recurrent cost and equipment renewal and a minor part of initial capital
outlay. In view of these circumstances, the Development Credit Agreement
would be amended to provide that, rather than aiming at recovery of all
capital and recurrent costs, levies should be sufficiently high to ensure
coverage of recurrent expenditure including equipment renewal, and of capi-
tal costs to the extent permitted by economic conditions (producer price,
input prices, yields, etc.).
3.11      The rate of return of the project is projected to be close to
the 14% estimated at appraisal in 1972, increases in costs and reductions
in cultivable area having been offset by the considerable increase in the
economic price of paddy since the project's beginning.
3.12      Rice cultivation under controlled flooding is a unique low-cost
rice production system which in West Africa can be developed on a large scale
only in Mali. This resource deserves to be further developed in spite of the
technical problems encountered over the last few years and the risk inherent
in this type of cultivation. The encouraging results of the 1976/77 campaign
justify the expectation that a new project, building on the first Mopti Rice
project, could reap the benefits cf the learning costs paid.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project aims at a moderate expansion in the cultivated area
through the construction of new polders, and at the consolidation of the ex-
isting project through some supplementary investments and through a strength-
ening of the project authority ORM. At full development, it would reach a
population of about 90,000 (13,000 families) in an area with few alternative
economic opportunities. The project consists of:
-    construction of four polders with a total area of
8,800 ha;
-    improvements to polders developed under Credit 277-MLI;
-    deep ploughing of the new polders as well as of
14,285 ha in polders constructed under Credit 277-MLI
or being improved with financing provided by the
African Development Fund (ADF);



- 11 -
construction of storage facilities for paddy, farm
inputs and farm equipment, of workshops, offices and
staff houses, and training centers;
acquisition of farm machinery, civil works maintenance
equipment, vehicles, two ferries, workshop and office
equipment;
establishment of an adult literacy program for villages
in the project area and an audio-visual program to be
used by extension services;
-    an applied agricultural research program;
-    agricultural credit for the purchase of fertilizer and
farm implements;
-    technical assistance for project management, and ORM
staff and operating costs during the project period to
the extent that they are attributable to the expansion
of the project area.
4.02      The project also provides for assistance to the Study Bureau of
the Rural Works Department in Bamako, consisting of an extension to existing
offices, acquisition of equipment, travel scholarships and funds for the
execution of studies for irrigation projects which may be included in a
future IDA-financed project.
4.03      The project will begin in mid-1978 and would extend over 5 years.
B. Detailed Features
Construction of New Polders
4.04      Four new polders will be developed on the right bank of the Bani
river close to ORM headquarters, i.e.
-    Saremala (3,120 ha) and Torokoro (525 ha) adjacent to
the Soufouroulaye polder which is part of the Mopti I
project (see Map); construction of the Saremala
polder would improve the flooding and drainage of the
Soufouroulaye polder (4,900 ha);
-    Ouro-Nema (4,105 ha) and Tiroguel (1,050 ha) to the
north of the existing polders; here again, construc-
tion of the Ouro-Nema polder would improve hydraulic
conditions in the adjacent Diambacourou polder (570 ha)
because the new irrigation structures would control a
local river which at present floods Diambacourou.



- 12 -
The civil works include protection dikes, intake structures, irri-
gation and drainage channels (Annex 5, Table 1).
Improvement of Mopti I Polders
4.05      Consolidation of existing polders would include the widening and
deepening of intake channels in four polders, the conversion of major intake
structures in four polders from regulation planks to metal gates, the digging
of secondary channels in one polder, the construction of an access road to
one polder, and the covering of two dikes with a laterite surface to assure
all-weather access to control structures and to increase durability (Annex
5, Table 1). The necessity of these additional works has become apparent
in the course of the first few years of operating these polders. Besides
improved cultivation conditions, the benefits would include reduced exposure
to schistosomiasis due to better drainage. Consolidation of the Mopti I
polders would account for 19 percent of civil works costs.
Deep Ploughing
4.06      Deep ploughing would be carried out to destroy existing bush
vegetation. In addition to the 8,800 ha of the four new polders, some
10,200 ha of the Mopti I polders and two other existing polders, being
improved with ADF financing (4,085 '-ia), would be covered by this operation
(Annex 5, Table 2). In the existing polders, deep ploughing is mainly
required to overcome the wild rice infestation which has developed over
the last few years (para 3.05).
Construction of Stores, Workshops, Offices and Houses
4.07      The following buildings will be constructed during the project
period:
-    13 sheds for farm inputs and SCAER equipment;
-    28 sheds for ORM farm machinery;
-    2 auxiliary workshops;
2
-    some 4,500 m  of paddy stores;
-    16 houses for heads of extension services in each
polder and for the head oi- the seed farm, and 1 office
in Mopti Nord polder;
-    two houses for technical assistants;
-    two training centers, at Mopti and Tenenkou, respectively;
-    1 house with office and store for an ORM representa-
tive in Bamako who will act as liaison to the admin-
istration and as expeditor for Mopti-bound shipments.
Full details are at Annex 5, Table :3.



- 13 -
Farm Machinery and Vehicles
4.08      While ORM farm machinery is presently underutilized, demands on
tractor, seeder and thresher services are expected to increase as areas,
production and, in particular, marketed production increase. Additional
equipment will be required by the middle of the project period. The follow-
ing machinery would be purchased under the project.
-    30 tractors with trailer,
-    6 trucks,
-    42 mechanical threshers,
-    174 seeders for line-sowing.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that additional farm machinery will
be procured only when the Association is satisfied that the existing machinery
is adequately utilized. In addition, five small vehicles would be purchased
for the heads of the four new polders and for the Bougoula polder being re-
habilitated, and three vehicles for ORM headquarters. Two ferries will be
procured to ensure better communications with polders on the left bank of
the Bani and Niger rivers. (For details see Annex 7, Table 6.)
Civil Works Maintenance Equipment
4.09      Very little equipment for the maintenance of dikes and channels is
available at ORM. Maintenance was not a high priority in the first years
after completion of works but is becoming increasingly important. Under the
project, a complete unit with earthmoving, compacting and transport equipment
(Annex 7, Table 6) would be acquired.
Workshop and Office Equipment; Furniture
4.10      The Sevare workshop would receive additional equipment.  The auxi-
liary workshops for light repairs, located in the more distant polders of
Sofara and Tenenkou, would also receive electric generators and equipment.
The offices and houses to be built under the project (para. 4.07) would be
equipped with office machinery and furniture (Annex 7, Table 6).
Adult Literacy Campaign and Audio-Visual Program
4.11      Theoretically, 38 adult literacy centers exist in the project area
but only a few are operative because the regional branch of the Direction
Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionelle et de Linguistique Appliquee
(DNAFLA) is short of funds. In order to reanimate adult literacy courses,
the project would set up, within ORM, an Adult Literacy Unit which would
organize 220 adult literacy courses in the project area. Instruction would
be provided by literate volunteers from among the local population. For
details see Annex 5, Appendix I.



- 14 -
4.12      The project would also provide extension staff with supplementary
means for educating farmers; for this purpose photographic and reproductive
equipment, tape recorders, a 4 wheel drive vehicle, electric generators and
operating costs for an audio-visual program unit at ORM headquarters would be
financed by the project.
Applied Agricultural Research
4.13      The project would finance an applied agricultural research program
consisting of field trials of new varieties, development of optimal farm
types and of optimal cultivation techniques. Details are at Appendix II of
Annex 5.
Agricultural Credit
4.14      An agricultural credit fund will be provided to ORM for the supply
of fertilizer and equipment to project farmers. Oxen, another major item of
on-farm investment, are habitually procured by farmers directly from cattle-
traders and would not be covered by the credit program. Details are at
Appendix III of Annex 5.
Assistance to the Study Bureau of the RWD
4.15      The Rural Works Department (RWD) belongs to the Ministry of Rural
Development. It has been assisted by IDA, on a modest scale, within the
framework of the Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit 443-MLI). The assis-
tance proposed now will consist of an extension to the Study Bureau offices,
some equipment and documentation, travel scholarships, and funds for irriga-
tion project studies. Details are at Annex 6.
C. Organization and Management
4.16      Except for the assistance to RWD (para. 4.15), the project will be
implemented by the Operation Riz Mopti (ORM). It is expected that staff at
headquarters remains constant except for a small program unit for audio-
visual aids and the adult literacy unit. Additional staff would be required
for civil works maintenance, operation of additional tractors and farm equip-
ment, and extension in the new polders. Part of the extension staff require-
ments in the new polders would be covered, however, through a reduction of
the density of extension staff in the existing polders. 30% of total staff
cost (excluding technical assistance) and of operating expenditure would be
financed under the project; this proportion has been determined on the basis
of the increase in cultivable area that can be attributed to the proposed
project.
4.17      Technical assistance for ORM would return to its 1976 level of 4
experts.  However, the professional profile of technical assistants will be
redefined to ensure maximum support for the critical areas of ORM activities,
i.e.



- 15 -
extension work;
organization of farm machinery use;
management of the seed farm; and
-    supervision of applied agricultural research and of the
evaluation unit.
Accordingly, the following specialists will be employed:
-    one extension specialist (5 years);
-    one agricultural economist (2-3 years);
-    one workshop manager (5 years); and
-    one accountant (4 years).
Terms of reference are at Annex 5, Appendix IV.
4.18      The adult literacy program would be fully integrated in ORM.  A
Coordinator, appointed and paid by DNAFLA, would be responsible for imple-
menting the program under the authority of the Director of ORM; he would
supervise ultimately 9 heads of Zones d'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle (ZAF)
who would set up the centers and be responsible for the training of volunteer
instructors. DNAFLA would assist in curriculum development and would monitor
and evaluate results half way through the project period and at its end.
4.19      The agricultural credit fund will be made available to ORM once
responsibility for supplying farmers with inputs and equipment is trans-
ferred from SCAER to ORM (para. 2.13). ORM is already acting as agent for
SCAER in all matters pertaining to credit made available to project farmers
and should, in consequence, have no difficulty in assuming full responsibil-
ity for the credit program. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
subsidies included in fertilizer and equipment supplied by ORM to farmers
in the project area would be at the charge of Government.
4.20      The agricultural research program will be carried out by ORM; the
agricultural economist to be employed under technical assistance (para. 4.17)
would supervise the program. Scientific guidance and control would be pro-
vided by IER as well as by WARDA, which operates the rice research station
in the project area.
4.21      Most of the paddy produced by ORM would be milled at the Sevare
rice-mill (capacity 15,000 tons of paddy); paddy from the Mopti I polders Dia
and Tenenkou (6,400 ha) would be milled at Diafarabe. The capacity of the
Chinese-built mill in Sevare is expected to be fully used by ORM production
by 1981. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government will take
action to ensure that rice-milling capacity in the project area will be ex-
panded in line with the increase in paddy production.



- 16 -
4.22      Execution of civil works under the project will be supervised by
the Rural Works Department of the Ministry of Rural Development which has
satisfactorily exercised this function for the first Mopti Rice Project.
The Rural Works Division of ORM would be responsible for maintenance of
polders and the operation of floodirLg and drainage structures.
4.23      The project component "Assistance to the Rural Works Department"
will be carried out by the Ministry of Rural Development, of which the Rural
Works Department is a part.
D. EnvirotLment and Health
4.24      The first Mopti Rice ProjEct having been in operation for 5 years
without noticeable effects on its natural environment, no problems are fore-
seen in this respect for the proposetd second project.
4.25      Although no survey of disease prevalence attributable to the proj-
ect has been conducted, reports of public health officials indicate that
there has been no demonstrated negative impact on the prevalence of water-
associated diseases such as schistoEomiasis. Malaria is the key health
problem in the project area with an estimated 80% of the population below
30 years of age infected. The prevalence of diarrheal diseases, including
cholera, amebiasis and salmonellosis, and of urinary schistosomiasis is also
high. The Association is exploring the possibilities of addressing Malian
health problems within a broader framework.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs including taxes are estimated at MF 15,293 million
(US$31.2 million) of which the foreign exchange component would be MF 9,307
million (US$19.0 million) or 61% of total costs. Project costs net of taxes
are estimated at MF 12,873 million (US$26.3 million). Project costs are
detailed in Annex 7 and summarized below.



- 17 -
Foreign
MF Million                   US$ Million         Exchange
Local /1  Foreign  Total   Local /1  Foreign  Total         %
Civil Works          1,883       2,943   4,826    3.9          6.0      9.9      61
Deep Ploughing         556         907   1,463    1.1          1.9       3.0     62
Buildings              470         253      723    1.0         0.5       1.5     35
Engineering and
Supervision            98         141     239    0.2          0.3      0.5      59
Vehicles and
Equipment             240         850   1,090    0.5          1.7      2.2      78
Incremental Staff
and Op. Cost /2       553         300     853    1.1          0.6      1.7      35
Technical
Assistance             -          647     647      -          1.3       1.3    100
On-Farm
Investment            460         521     981    0.9          1.1      2.0      53
Subtotal Mopti II
Rice Project        4,260       6,562  10,822    8.7         13.4     22.1      61
Assistance to RWD      182         310      492    0.4         0.6       1.0     63
Total Base Cost      4,442       6,872  11,314    9.1         14.0     23.1      61
Physical Contin-
gencies (8.8%)        401         595     996    0.8          1.2      2.0      60
Expected Price
Increases (26.4%)  1,153        1,840   2,983    2.3          3.8      6.1      62
Total Expected
Project Cost        5,986       9,307  15,293   12.2         19.0     31.2      61
/1   Including taxes.
/2   Including adult literacy campaign, audio-visual program and agricultural
research.
5.02      Cost estimates were prepared by the Rural Works Department (RWD)
of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Institut d'Economie Rurale
(IER) and are based on quantities of work derived from detailed designs
and unit costs determined on the basis of similar works carried out over
the last few years in the Mopti and Segou areas. Base costs for staff,
technical assistance and operating expenditure were derived from the ORM
budget for 1977. Staff and operating expenditure (excluding equipment
renewal) have been included to the extent that they are attributable to
the increase in cultivated area brought about by the project compared to
the situation without the project. This share is 30% of the area to be cul-
tivated with the project. Details are at Annex 7, Tables 8 and 9. Costs
of on-farm investment were derived from SCAER 1976 import prices and from
the adoption rates shown in Annex 9, Table 3.
5.03      Physical contingencies are 15% for civil works, 10% for operating
costs, the adult literacy component, agricultural research, agricultural



- 18 -
credit, and on-farm investment, and 5% for buildings, vehicles and equipment,
and assistance to RWD. Base costs expressed in December 1977 prices were
increased at the following annually compounded rates: for equipment, vehi-
cles, engineering and supervision, the adult literacy component, on-farm
investment, agricultural credit, and assistance to RWD 7.5 percent in 1978
and 1979, and 7.0 percent thereafter; for civil works, deep ploughing, build-
ings, operating costs, agricultural research, and technical assistance 9.0
percent in 1978 and 1979 and 8.0 percent thereafter; for local staff, 4.5
percent in 1978 and 1979 and 4.0 percent thereafter (Annex 7, Table 12).
B. Financing
5.04      Besides the IDA credit, the project will receive financial assis-
tance from the African Development Fund (ADF) and French aid (FAC). ADF, in
accordance with its general policy, has chosen parallel financing while FAC
has expressed interest in joint financing with IDA. The proposed financing
of the project is summarized below.
Total Cost                Net of Taxes
US$ Million           %   US$ Million            X
IDA                    15.0             48        15.0             57
FAC                     2.0              6         2.0              8
ADF                     6.0              19        6.0             23
Government              6.3             20         1.3              5
Farmers                 1.9              6         1.9              7
Total                  31.2            100 1/    26.3 1/          100
1/   Figures do not add up to total due to rounding.
A condition of effectiveness of the Credit is the fulfillment of all condi-
tions precedent to the initial disbursement of the FAC grant.
5.05      The proposed IDA credit of US$15.0 million would finance 57%
of project costs net of taxes. The credit would cover 59% of foreign ex-
change costs (US$11.2 million) and 53% of local costs net of taxes (US$3.8
million).
5.06      IDA and FAC would jointly finance (in a proportion of 9:1) the
net of tax costs of the following project components: civil works and deep
ploughing except for those parts that would be financed by ADF (para. 5.07);
buildings; vehicles and equipment; technical assistance; and assistance to
RWD. FAC would finance the net of tax cost of the adult literacy campaign,
the audio-visual program and the applied agricultural research program while
IDA would finance the net of tax costs of engineering and supervision, agri-
cultural credit, and 50% of incremental staff and operating expenditure of
ORM (Annex 8, Table 1).



- 19 -
5.07      For parallel financing by ADF the following easily separable
project components have been selected:
-    development of the two polders of Ouro-Nema and
Tiroguel (4,105 ha and 1,050 ha, respectively);
and
-    deep ploughing of these two polders as well as
of the polders Bougoula (2,085 ha) and Sarantomo-
Syn II (2,000 ha); the latter two are now being
developed by ADF under separate financing.
5.08      Government would finance half of incremental staff and operating
costs and the subsidies on farm inputs as well as taxes estimated at 16%
of total costs (Table 8.1). Government's contribution net of taxes would
be 5%.
5.09      The IDA credit of US$15.0 million would be made to Government and
passed on by Government to ORM as a grant since ORM, at prevailing producer
prices, is unable to service the credit (para. 3.10).
5.10      It is understood that FAC's contribution would be a grant and
ADF's contribution a loan on IDA terms.
5.11      In order to further the expeditious execution of the project and
to avoid the delays experienced during the implementation of Credit 277-MLI
because of Government's inability to pre-finance reimbursable expenditures,
IDA will finance a revolving fund of MF 294 million (US$0.6 million) to be
used for the pre-financing of project expenditures financed by IDA. The
revolving fund would be held by the Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM)
under the same type of agreement as used for the Drought Relief Fund (Credit
443-MLI). The co-lenders have been encouraged to make similar arrangements.
5.12      The extension to the building of the RWD Study Bureau (para. 4.14)
will be constructed about 3 months before the expected date of signature of
the Credit Agreement. Retroactive financing of up to US$70,000 would be pro-
vided for this purpose.
C. Procurement
5.13      Contracts for vehicles and equipment (US$2.2 million) as well as
for civil works (US$5.5 m.) and deep ploughing (US$1.5 m.) to be financed
jointly by IDA and FAC would be awarded on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts for the con-
struction of houses, offices, workshops and stores (US$1.4 m.) would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accord-
ance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Bidding for small lots,
rather than for all construction works, would be permitted. Miscellaneous



- 20 -
items of equipment and furniture up to a contract value of US$50,000 would
be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding according to procedures
acceptable to IDA. For contracts of less than US$20,000 direct procurement
on the basis of several quotations would be acceptable. Domestically manufac-
tured goods would be allowed a preference of 15%, or the level of import
duties, whichever is lower.
5.14      Detailed engineering and supervision would be the responsibility
of RWD which may, if required, hire additional competent and experienced
staff. Arrangements regarding procurement of equipment, hiring of personnel
and schedules of payments to RWD have been laid down in an agreement between
ORM and RWD which has been approved by IDA.
D. Disbursement
5.15      The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed to
cover the following (in % of cost neat of taxes):
(a)  90% of total cost of civiL works, excluding the items to be
financed by ADF (US$4.95 Taillion);
(b) 90% of total cost of deep ploughing, excluding the items to
be financed by ADF (US$1.35 million);
(c)  90% of total cost of buildings (US$1.26 million);
(d) 90% of total cost of vehicles and equipment (US$1.98 million);
(e)  90% of cost of technical assistance for ORM (US$1.26 million);
(f) 90% of total cost of assistance to RWD (US$0.90 million);
(g) 100% of cost of engineerirLg and supervision (US$0.50 million);
(h)  100% of cost of agricultural credit (US$0.45 million); and
(i) 15% of staff and operating cost of ORM (US$0.70 million), which
corresponds to 50% of incremental staff and operating expendi-
ture.
US$1.65 million remain unallocated. An estimated schedule of disbursement is
at Annex 8, Table 2.
5.16      Disbursement requests against items a, b, c, d, e, f and g in the
preceding paragraph would be fully documented. Disbursements against items h
and i would be against certified statements of expenditure. Funds for project
studies, included in item f, would be disbursed against statements of expendi-
ture for projects previously submitted to, and approved by, the Association.
Documentation of statements of expenditure would not be submitted but held
available by the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions.



- 21 -
E. Accounts, Audits, Reports
5.17      Accounting procedures of ORM have been found satisfactory and would
be continued. The Administrative and Accounting Division is directed by an
expatriate technician who would continue to be employed until the Malian coun-
terpart is ready to take over. As in the on-going first Mopti Rice Project,
accounts of ORM will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
certified financial statements and the auditors' report will be submitted
within six months after the end of the fiscal year.  Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
5.18      ORM reports quarterly on current matters and produces one detailed
account per year.  OR14's reporting has been generally satisfactory.  However,
it will be discussed with ORM how reporting activities can be adjusted in
such a way as to better reflect progress in project activities recognized as
problem areas, and how the Evaluation Unit created in 1977 can be put to use
for this purpose. The Evaluation Unit would be instructed to collect
data for the completion report on the Mopti I Rice Project and to assume re-
sponsibility for writing a first draft of that report. ORM would also be
responsible for preparing the completion report on the Mopti II Rice Project.
VI. PRODUCTION AND YIELDS; MARKETS AND PRICES; FARMERS' BENEFITS;
ORM FINANCES; GOVERNMENT REVENUE
A. Production and Yields
6.01      The project would result in incremental production of about 34,000
tons of paddy at full development in 1985. Incremental production can be
allocated to the various project components as follows:



- 22 -
With the         Without the
Project            Project        Incremental
Sown Area (1,000 ha)
New Polders                      8.6                3.4               5.2
Mopti I Polders                 25.7               19.3               6.4
Other Polders 1/                 4.0                4.0
Total                           38.-3             26.7               11.6
Yields (t/ha)
New Polders                      2.00               0.70              1.30
Mopti I Polders                  2.00               1.78              0.22
Other Polders 1/                 2.00               1.50              0.50
Average                          2.00               1.60              0.40
Production (1,000t)
New Polders                     17.2                2.4              14.8
Mopti I Polders                 51.4               34.3              17.1
Other Polders 1/                 8.0                6.0               2.0
Total                           76.6              42.7               33.9
1/   Syn-Sarantomo II and Bougoula.
It has been assumed that without the project 40% of the area of new polders
would be cultivated in the traditional manner.
6.02      Yields would increase as a function of progress in line-sowing and
weeding initially, and fertilizer use subsequently.  The different stages of
cultivation techniques and the corresponding yields can be summarized as
follows:
- Stage 0 (traditional varieties; uncontrolled flooding);         700 kg/ha
- Stage 1 (traditional varieties; controlled flooding);         1,100 kg/ha
- Stage 2 (Sativa varieties; improved land preparation);    1,400 kg/ha
- Stage 3 (Stage 2 + line-sowing, weeding);                     1,900 kg/ha
- Stage 4 (Stage 3 + use of 100 kg/ha of urea);                 2,500 kg/ha
Experience has shown that farmers adopt improved seed as soon as they join
the project. Progress from Stage 2 to Stage 4 will be uneven according to
responsiveness of farmers, soil qua'Lity, and hydrological conditions. One
quarter of participating farmers would not progress beyond Stage 2 (Annex 9,
Table 3).



- 23 -
6.03      Projected yield development in individual polders would be from
1.56 t/ha in the first project year to 1.78 t/ha in the last project year,
and to 2.00 t/ha at full development in the 8th year of cultivation (Annex 9,
Table 3). Overall yields of the project would increase somewhat more slowly
because development is not simultaneous in all polders (Table 1). Without
the project, yields would remain at the traditional level of 0.7 t/ha in the
area of the new polders to be developed, and would continue to rise at an
uneven rate depending on the hydrological conditions of individual polders
in the Mopti I project area and in other existing polders. In the Mopti I
polders, yields would level off at about 1.8 t/ha on average, only slightly
less than the yields anticipated at appraisal (1.85 t/ha).
B. Markets and Prices
6.04      Market prospects have been assessed on the assumption that develop-
ment of on-going rice projects will proceed on schedule and that the improve-
ment in domestic rice supply observed in recent years (para. 2.22) is stable
except for the inevitable weather fluctuations. This implies that Government
will maintain the producer price of paddy in real terms (para. 6.06). The
project would help to fill the supply gap projected for the early 'eighties
(Annex 10, Table 3); until that time, the project would provide a desirable
safety margin against shortfalls in domestic supplies that are likely to occur
from time to time, with varying severity, because of poor rainfall and flood
levels. Any remaining surplus that would not be absorbed by domestic demand
could be accumulated for the reserve stock which Government plans to build up
(Annex 1).
6.05      Incremental production from the project will be shared between
the regional market (Mopti and Gao) and Bamako. Production marketed through
official channels (OPAM) was 35 percent in 1977 and is expected to be 40
percent throughout the project period and to rise to 45 percent as from 1983.
The balance will be home-consumed or sold through private trading channels.
OPAM sales in the Mopti/Gao area are projected to remain constant at a level
of 15,000 tons since ongoing and planned projects in the Gao area (Action
Riz-Sorgho) will stabilize future sales to that area. Total incremental
production marketed through official channels is expected to be sold to the
Bamako area and is valued at MF 71 per kg of paddy (farmgate), while for
consumption in the Mopti area a higher economic price (MF 80/kg) is used
(Annex 10, Table 4b).
6.06      The producer price of paddy remained unchanged at MF 40/kg from
mid 1974 until autumn 1977. While initially this price provided a strong
incentive, it has been progressively eroded by inflation and the reduction
of Government subsidies on farm implements. In 1977, the price for paddy
paid by private traders was consistently higher than the official producer
price. The latter was increased to MF 45/kg before the 1977/78 campaign
but this increase is not sufficient to offset the effect of inflation.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government will increase the



- 24 -
producer price of paddy to at least MF 50/kg before the 1978/79 campaign
and will see to it that the price is periodically adjusted in such a way as
to provide sufficient incentive to farmers. The financial analysis in this
report is based on the assumption that the producer price of paddy will be
raised to MF 50/kg before the beginning of the 1978/79 campaign.
6.07      The consumer price of rice has also been stable at MF 111.5/kg
(for the most common quality) from mid 1974 until autumn 1977. This price
became increasingly out of line with real costs of production, which resulted
in substantial subsidies for urban consumers. In autumn 1977, prices were
increased by about 25X to a level close to both actual cost of production
and the 1977 import substitution price (Tables 4b and 5 of Annex 10).
6.08      Reimbursements for paddy collection, bagging and transport to the
mill as well as the allowance for losses appear to be adequate after increases
implemented in 1977 (Table 5). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the price schedules for these items, which are vital for ORM's financial
equilibrium, will be kept at such a level as to reflect actual cost to ORM.
6.09      The Sevare rice-mill is not operated by OPAM (as proposed by IDA at
the time it was constructed) but i3 attached, albeit as a semi-detached unit,
to ORM; assurances were obtained at negotiations that accounts of the rice
mill will be kept separate from 0A accounts and that no ORM revenue will be
used to cover deficits the mill may incur.
C. Farmers' Benefits
6.10      The beneficiaries of the project would be 4,000 families who
will occupy the incremental cultivable area to be developed as well as the
9,000 families who occupy the exist:ing polders. Some of the latter would
benefit from improved flooding or drainage conditions as a consequence of
the project while all would benefit from the increase in efficiency of ORM's
extension service which the project: aims to achieve. The beneficiaries
will be nearly entirely traditiona.L farmers of the Mopti area with income
levels below the national average.
6.11      In order to safeguard ORM's financial position (para. 6.13) and to
ensure that farmers in the project area make an equitable contribution towards
project cost, the development levy will be raised above the level envisaged
under the first Mopti Rice Project.. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the current policy of periodically raising the development levy would be
continued until a levy of 240 kg/ha is reached in 1982. This levy would
amount to about half the economic rent of improved land for the less produc-
tive farmers, and to 20-30% of the economic rent for progressive farmers
(Annex 11, Table 4).
6.12      Compared to incomes from rice growing in traditional cultivation,
family net revenues would increase from MF 49,000 (US$100) to MF 100,000
(US$200) in Stage 2 and MF 182,000 (US$370) in Stage 3 while farmers utilizing
fertilizer would achieve net revenues of US$500 (Annex 11, Table 3). Without



- 25 -
the project, few farmers in the Mopti I project area would exceed an income
level of US$300. These income figures have been derived on the basis of a
development levy of 240 kg of paddy per ha (para. 6.11) and a producer price
of MF 50/kg (para. 6.06). An additional benefit is the much higher security
of revenue compared to traditional cultivation under uncontrolled flooding.
D. Financial Implications for ORM and Government
6.13      The price schedule for rice production and marketing (Annex 10,
Table 5) which was adopted in October 1977, will result in a significant
increase in ORM's revenues since ORM will now receive FM 9.4 per kg of paddy
marketed (instead of FM 6.5 per kg heretofore) for collection and transport,
and a further FM 5.3 per kg of paddy marketed as a contribution towards ex-
tension costs and crop protection; no payments were made on that account
in previous price schedules. As a consequence of these increases, ORM is
projected to fully cover its recurrent expenditure including equipment re-
newal, and even show a cash surplus (Annex 13, Table 1). This surplus,
which would materialize only if ORM maintains financial discipline, could
be used for further investments or transferred to Government as a contribu-
tion towards capital recovery (para. 6.14), as Government shall decide.
6.14      The new price schedules (para. 6.13) and the development levies
agreed upon (para. 6.11) would enable ORM to earn about FM 3,850 million
(US$7.9 million) over the project period of 25 years (discounted at 10%);
as total project cost over this period (also discounted at 10%) is esti-
mated at MF 8,057 million (US$16.4 million), the cost recovery ratio is
48% (Annex 12, Table 4). This is equivalent to full coverage of recurrent
costs and recovery of about 35% of investments.
6.15      If Government's net savings on subsidies is taken into account,
90% of total project cost would be recovered (Annex 12, Table 4). In pur-
suance of its policy of keeping food prices down, Government would have
to lay out subsidies on rice imports as from 1983 if the project were not
implemented. The subsidies saved as a consequence of the project would
amount to nearly MF 900 million (US$1.8 million) annually at full development
(Annex 12, Table 3). Taking into account Government's debt service on IDA
and ADF credits as well as input subsidies for ORM farmers, net savings
to Government would be about US$1.1 million annually.
VII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      The project would lead to an increase in paddy production by some
34,000 tons at full development, of which 15,000 tons would originate from
new polders and 19,000 tons from existing polders. Beneficiaries would mainly



- 26 -
be traditional rice farmers in the flood plains who, due to the peculiar
ecological conditions of the area, have few alternative opportunities for
gainful employment. The project would also make ORM more cost-effective
through a spreading of overheads over an extended area and through improve-
ments in the efficiency of its organization. ORM's operating and maintenance
expenditure per ton of paddy would decrease by close to 50 percent at full
development compared to the 1975/76 level of costs.
7.02      The internal rate of return of the project is 18%. This calculation
is based on the assumption that incremental production from the project can
be absorbed by domestic demand including demand for the build-up of a rice
reserve stock as a protective measure against future droughts. If part of
incremental production had to be exported, for a transitional period of some
5 years, the rate of return would still be 16%. Assumptions underlying rate
of return calculations are further explained at Annex 13.
7.03      The sensitivity of the rate of return with respect to variations in
key parameters is shown below:
Assumptions                       Rate of Return (%)
Base estimate                             18
Costs +10%                                15
"   +20%                                13
"   -10%                                20
"   -20%                                24
Benefits -10%                             15
-20%                            12
+10%                            20
+20%                            22
Production delayed by 1 year              15
by 2 years            13
Risks
7.04      The project's main risk derives from the peculiarities of the sys-
tem of controlled flooding which is a hybrid system with features of both
rainfed farming and irrigation agriculture. With the new design criteria
adopted after the drought, the risk of insufficient flooding of polders will
be much reduced, in particular once the improvements financed under the proj-
ect have been implemented; however, occurrence of insufficient or untimely
flooding cannot be entirely excluded. In addition, for the first 5-6 weeks
of the growing cycle, farmers rely on sufficient and timely rainfall in the
same way as in rainfed agriculture. This uncertainty is the price to pay for
an otherwise very economic production system with investments below $1,000/ha
and low opportunity costs of both land and labor. The sensitivity analysis
in the preceding paragraph indicates that even if benefits were 20% lower
than anticipated, the rate of return would still be 12%.



- 27 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  farmers will have priority in land allocation under
the project (para. 3.07);
(b)  in the new polders to be developed not more than 2 ha
would be allotted per active male family member
(para. 3.08);
(c)  additional farm machinery will be procured only when IDA
is satisfied that the existing machinery is adequately
utilized (para. 4.08);
(d)  subsidies included in fertilizer and equipment supplied
by ORM to farmers in the project area would be at the
charge of Government (para. 4.19);
(e)  Government will take action to ensure that the rice-
milling capacity in the project area will be expanded in
line with the increase in paddy production (para. 4.21);
(f)  accounts of ORM will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and certified financial statements and
the auditors' report will be submitted within six months
after the end of the fiscal year (para. 5.17);
(g)  Government will increase the producer price of paddy
to at least MF 50/kg before the 1978/79 campaign and
see to it that the price is periodically adjusted in
such a way as to provide sufficient incentive to farmers
(para. 6.06);
(h)  the price schedules (baremes) for collection, bagging
and transport of paddy as well as the allowance for
losses will be kept at such a level as to reflect actual
cost to OEM (para. 6.08);
(i)  the accounts of the Sevare rice mill will be kept
separate from ORM accounts and no ORM revenue will be
used to cover deficits the mill may incur (para. 6.09);
(j)  the current policy of periodically raising the develop-
ment levy would be continued until a levy of 240 kg/ha
is reached in 1982 (para. 6.11).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness of the Credit is the fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the FAC grant (para. 5.04).
8.03      With the indicated assurances and condition, the project is suit-
able for a credit on standard terms of US$15.0 million equivalent to the
Government of Mali.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI LI RICE PROJECT
Rice Production and Consumption in Mali
Production
1.        Until 1969, rice was produced in Mali by smallholders on some
130,000 ha in the Niger flood plains, where cultivation under flooding is
possible on several hundred thousand hectares, and in the Office du Niger
(40,000 ha) where the water inflow is controlled by the Markala dam on the
Niger near Segou. Traditional rice-growing by smallholders was very exten-
sive, and yields were in the range of 700-800 kg/ha. The Office du Niger,
due to poor maintenance and organizational problems, never made full use
of the scheme's potential: Double-cropping was never practised, and yields
achieved by farmers (4 ha; ox-drawn cultivation) were only about 1.6 t/ha
in the 'sixties but rose to more than 2 tons in recent years.
2.        In spite of this low level of productivity, Malian rice-growers
in the 'fifties and early 'sixties produced a modest surplus for export to
neighboring territories of French Best Africa (Table 1). The French colonial
administration, which controlled fcreign trade patterns in these countries,
had an obvious interest in meeting the import demand of the coastal terri-
tories without foreign exchange expenditure while at the same time providing
an outlet for the surplus of the Office du Niger, a project in which France
had invested considerable funds since 1929. In the 'sixties, when the terri-
tories of French West Africa had become independent, this administrative
protection for Malian rice exports ceased to exist. In an effort to remain
competitive with overseas suppliers of rice Mali maintained a very low pro-
ducer price for paddy. This did not lead to a strengthening of its export
position but wiped out marketable surpluses within a few years. Production
declined (Table 1) or was partly sold by clandestine circuits across the
border to neighboring countries. In spite of her vast rice-growing potential,
Mali became a net importer in 1968.
3.        The Government that came to power in the coup of 1968 took steps to
reverse this trend. Operation Riz, an agency with managerial and financial
autonomy, was created to improve rice-growing conditions in the flood-plains
of the Niger by providing partial water control through dikes and intake/
offtake structures and by supplying essential inputs and extension services.
The agency was later on split into Operation Riz Segou (ORS), financed by
EDF, and Operation Riz Mopti (ORM), financed by IDA. On a smaller scale,
similar efforts were initiated in b3ttomlands in the south (Sikasso) and west
(Kayes, Bafoulabe, Kenieba). After a promising start, progress was held up
by the droughts of 1972/73 and 1973174. Rice cultivation systems of the
polder type developed in the Niger delta are highly vulnerable to shortfalls



ANNEX 1
- 29 -                    Page  2
in the river water level; the proportion of empoldered areas receiving no
ofrinsufficient amounts of water was over half in these years, leading to
drastic falls in the level of production.
4.        Rice production has increased in a spectacular manner since the
end of the drought, i.e. as from 1974/75. The main reasons are:
-    the development of some 55,000 ha in the various
Operations Riz (Segou, Mopti, Sikasso) in the years
1969-74; most of these areas came into full pro-
duction for the first time in the post-drought year
1974/75;
-    the Office du Niger achieved some improvements in
its operation, bringing yields to more than 2 tons/ha.
In addition, the very high world market price of rice prevailing in 1973/74
had the beneficial side-effect of forcing Government to increase domestic
consumer prices, thereby making parallel increases in the producer price
possible. The efforts undertaken since 1969 on the production side (civil
works, extension services) were thus complemented by adequate price incen-
tives for producers. As from 1976, however, the incentive provided by the
1974 price increase showed signs of wearing off as a consequence of substan-
tial increases in prices of consumer goods and agricultural equipment. In
autumn 1977, Government increased the producer price of paddy from MF 40/kg
to MF 45/kg.
Consumption
5.        Rice consumption in Mali is estimated at 120,000 tons in 1976.
This corresponds to a per capita level of 20 kg. The national average of per
capita consumption of rice has fluctuated, with a relatively small margin,
around this figure over the last 15 years for which data are available (Table
1). Per capita consumption is intermediate between consumption levels in the
neighboring countries of the Sahel without significant domestic rice produc-
tion (3 - 5 kg) and consumption levels in the coastal countries between the
Ivory Coast and Senegal (Table 2). In fact, the national average of 20
kg can be broken down into an average of less than 5 kg for the majority
of the rural population and consumption levels of 50 - 100 kg per capita for
the rice-growing populations and the more affluent of the populations in the
few major towns.
6.        Rice and wheat are preferred to coarse grains (millet, sorghum,
maize) by those who have come into contact with these cereals and can afford
them. Bread and rice require little time for preparation while millet must
be pounded, a laborious and time-consuming daily task. The progress of rice
consumption is slowed down, however, by limited availability (in the thinly
populated countryside away from the rice-growing areas) and by its high price:
rice costs FM 111.50/kg (for RM40 quality) while millet is sold by OPAM at
FM 51.50/kg. With respect to nutritional value, both cereals are roughly
equivalent, rice being superior in calories but millet and sorghum having
more proteins and lipides per unit.



ANNEX I
Page  3
- 30 -
Distribution
7.        The national marketing agency OPAM (Office des Produits Agricoles
du Mali) has the monopoly for domestic and foreign trade in cereals. Before
the drought, OPAM bought only the surplus of the Office du Niger where farmers
had limited possibilities of evading the official circuit. All other farmers
sold their paddy to private traders since official producer prices were
substantially below the free market price. (Private trade was officially
prohibited but has been tolerated, to a certain extent, in recent years as
attempts to eliminate it have failed). OPAM supplemented domestic purchases
of rice through imports which had risen to 20 - 30,000 tons before the drought.
OPAM sells rice mainly to Bamako and to the food deficit areas of Gao and
Kayes (Table 3) while private traders supply part of the Bamako market as well
as the provincial towns and rural areas of easy access.
8.        In the execution of its marketing functions, OPAM shows a low degree
of flexibility; this is partly due to organizational shortcomings but also to
policy constraints imposed on it. OPAM's shortcomings are more noticeable in
the marketing of coarse grains, however, than in the case of rice since OPAM
can deal directly with the Office du Niger and the various rice growing opera-
tions. In the Office du Niger, farmers are obliged to sell total production
except for a liberal allowance for home consumption. In the Operations,
farmers must deliver a certain quota (500 kg/ha in years of good or average
yields) while the disposal of the remainder is at the discretion of the farmer
(with the exception of the development levy which farmers in the Operations
as well as in the Office du Niger must deliver in kind).
Milling
9.        Rice milling is partly in the hands of OPAM and partly carried out
by rice development agencies such as the Office du Niger and the Operation
Riz Mopti. One mill is privateLLy owned. Theoretical rice milling capacity
was 111,000 tons of paddy in 1977 but 2 mills (totalling 20,000 tons capacity)
have been closed for a number of' years due to the small amount of rice mar-
keted by OPAM before 1974/75. Following the steep increase in marketed pro-
duction in 1975/76, the two mills are to be reactivated. Milling capacity
will be increased to about 143,000 tons by the completion of two further
mills which are under construction with financing from the African Develop-
ment Fund and the European Investment Bank (Table 4). This should be suf-
ficient until about 1980; however, the milling capacity in an area is not
in all cases geared to the volumie of production marketed in that area. This
leads to uneconomic movements of paddy over distances of several hundred
miles.
Storage
10.       OPAM has a storage capacity of about 138,000 tons of cereals (in-
cluding coarse grains) which is located partly in the main producer areas of
Segou (45,000 tons), Mopti (30,000 tons) and Sikasso (7,000 tons), and partly
in the main markets (Bamako 30,000 tons, Gao 20,000 tons and Kayes 6,000



ANNEX 1
- 31 -                    Page  4
tons). New storage facilities have been built in recent years with financial
assistance from Great Britain (30,000 t) and more storage space will be
financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (coarse grains) and the European
Development Fund (rice).
Security Stock
11.       Mali plans to build up a security stock of cereals in order to pro-
tect city dwellers and populations in deficit areas (Gao, Kayes) against the
effects of a new drought. The Five Year Plan originally emphasized coarse
grains (50,000 tons, and only 20,000 tons of rice) but plans have recently
been revised and expanded: the emphasis is now on rice (60,000 tons) while
coarse grain stocks are now planned to be only 20-40,000 tons.
12.       While the original plans were in accordance with the structure of
consumption of prospective users of a security stock, this is not the case
for the revised plans. Moreover, the overall magnitude of nearly 100,000 tons
is probably excessive and may cost not less than MF 2 billion (US$4 million)
in annual cost in addition to initial buying costs of MF 8 billion (US$16
million). The Malian Government, however, insists that a large reserve stock
is required to offset the delays in transporting cereals from the coast to
the areas of need, some of which are of difficult access.
13.       While the build-up of a moderate millet/sorghum reserve stock is
underway, with financial assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany,
plans for the rice reserve stock, to be financed by EDF, have been delayed
due to financial constraints.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Development of Rice Consumption in Mali, Total and Per Capita
Prncedure                       -         -              -                     -.65  -     +       -(8)       *              * (A) & (8)
ni ts
unitis  I 000 ha   I 000 t.  I 000 t.  I 000 t.        I 000 t.  I 000 t.   I 000 t.  I 000 t.  I 000 t.  I 000                           %
Aiea        Domestic  Losses    Seed           Available for          Rico      Rice       Total      Total   Per capita  Self-atffi-
paddy     (10% p.a) (100 kg/ha)  consumption              exports   imports   consump-  popu-   consump-    cTency in
Yedrs   barvested  Yupply                                                                          tion       lation  tion         rice
Anndcs  Supeificie l)ispon;bi- Pertes   Somences       Disponibilitg h la   Exporta.  IuAporte-  Consomma- Popula- Consouma-   Auto-auffl-
rgcolthe   Iitd        (l0% p.a) (100 kg/ha)  consomnation            tions de  tions de  tion        tion    tion par    sanco an rix
natioale                                                 riz        Piz        totale    totale  t&te
en padldy
Paddy    Rice/Riz                                              lbs/head
Ib/hab kg/hab
1960   170.0    ...                                                                                       3 965
61   182.0    185         18.5         18.2      148.3       96.4         12.6                83.8      4 068             201.6    100.0
62   200.0    ISS         t8-.5        20.0      146.5       95.2         15.0                80.2      4 174              19.2    100.0
63   123.0    190         19.0         12.3       158.7     103.2          5.2                98.0      4 283             22.9    100.0
64   158.5    165.0       16.5         15.85     132.6       86.2-         1.1                85.1      4 394.             19.4    100.0
99o- 64             181.3                                          95.3                             86.8                        20.5    100.0
65   169.0    158.0       15.8        J6.9       125.3       81.4          3.7                77.7      4 508              17.2    l00.0
66   177.5    162.0       16.2         17.75     128.        83.3                             83.3      4 625              18.0    100.0
67   197.6    158.0       15.8         19.76     122.4       79.6                             79.6      4 745              16.8    100.0
68   I62.3    169.3       16.93       16.23      136.1       88.5                             88.5      4 880             18.1    100.0
69   133.3    135.7       13.57       13.33      108.8       70.7                     20.4    91.1      5 001             18.2      77.6
165- 69             156.6                                         80.7                             84.0                         17.7     96.1
70   128.6    156.5      15.65        12.86      128.0       83.2                     14.5    97.7      5 124             19.1      85.2
71   116.3    169.4      16.94        11.63      140.8       91.5                    15.0   106.5       5 260             20.3      85.9
72    95.0 1/ 156.8      15.68         9.5       131.6       85.5                    30.5   116.0       5 400             21.5      73.7
197C- 72            160.9                                         86.7                    20.0   106.7                         20.3      81.3
I; H40.O/  110.0         11.0         18.0       89.0       52.7                     45.6    98.3      5 544              17.7     53.6
74  140.01/ 105.0        10.5         14.0       80.5       52.3                     65.3   117.6      5 691              20.7     44.5
75            216   _/                                      7;l.0                    34.2   107.2                         19.9     68.1
76            259    2/                                          
77           263      2/                  __________
1/   WARDA estimnateR/FqtIMAt1O-nn  ADRAO
2/   Bank estimates
Source:      WARDA, Rice Statistics Yearbook 1975, and mission estimates.



MALI
t?OPTI II RICE PROJECT
Per Capita Rice Consumption (Kg) in West African Countries
WARDA lgembar           Average     Average                              Average                         Average   *Pays Membres
Moyenne     Moyenne   1970    1971      1972     loyenne      1973     1974      Moyenn     *
Countries               190-64      19 5-69                              1970_72                         1970-74     de I *ADRAO
Benin                    2.4         2.9       2.0     3.6      2.8        2.8        3.5       3.3       3.0        Benin
Gambia                  68.1    y   65.0      78.5    67.0      69.6      71.7        88.5     82.0       77.1       Gambie
Ghana                     9.0   j    7.1      10.1      7.4      7.0       8.2         8.4      9.3        8.4       Ghana
Ivory Coast             35.0         45.7     50.5    52.3      54.1      52.3        56.2     43.7      51.4        cate d'lvoir-
Liberia                 87.7         91.6 j 100.8   104.8       96.1     100.6        96.6     87.0       97.1       Libdrla
Mali                    20.5    /  17.7       19.1    20,3      21.5      20,3        17.7     20.7       19.9       Mali
Mauritania                5.3   j    8.6      10.0    24.2      26.2      20.1        19.0     25.7       21.0       Mauritania
Niger                     1.9         4.4      5.1      3.6      4.5       4.4         2.8      4.3        4.1       Niger
Nigeria                   1.9   j/   2.4       2.6      2.1      3.0       2.6         3.6      3.8        3.0       Nig6rIa
Senegal                  53.3   L/  61.1      51.9    58.1    ,54.6       54.9        49.4     60.7      54.9        SEnegaI
Sierra Leone            81.8         96.3    104.1   102.3      87.4      97.9       105.8    108.6      101.6       Sierra Leone
Togo                     6.7         *7.8      6.6      7.2      6.5       6.8         4.8      3.5        5.7       Togo
Upper Volta               3.9         4.4      3.6      3.6      3.8 ,     3.7 '       2.8      5.8        3.9       Haute Volta
WARDA-SUB-REGION ;       10.3        11.7     12.4    12.3      12.4      12.4        13.0     13.2       12.6       SOUS-REGION-AORAO
jJ   1961-1964     3/  Average      computed as annual total  rice consumption divided by the corresponding population
2/  Muyennes calcul6es b partlr de la consommdtion annuelle de riz dlvishe par la population correspondante
Source:  WARDA, Rice Statistics Yearbook- 1975
"H



MALI
ESOPTI II RICE PROJECT
REGIONAL STRUCTURE CF OPAM CEREALS PURCHASES AND SALES (lOOOt)
(Average 1974/75 and 1975/76)
Region    Capital    Population               Coarse Grains                                 Rice                                 All Cereals
)          Bought   Sold    Surplus/Deficit         Bought    Sold    Surplus/Deficit       Bought    Sold    Surplus/Deficit
1st      Kayes          14            3       11                - R                      8               - 8            3       19                -16
2nd      Bamako         19            7       23                -16            _       26                -26            7       49                -42
3rd      Sikasso        19           11        2       + 9                     -         2               - 2          11         4      + 7
4th      Segou          15           20        2        +18                   40         3       +37                   60        5       +55
5th      Mopti          21           11        2        + 9                    8         1       + 7                   19        3       +16
6th      Gao            12            -       12                -12           _          8               - 8           _        20       _        -20
Total                   100           52       52        +36     -36           48        48       +44     -44          100      100       +78      -78
Sources:  Compte Rendu de Reunion de la Commission Interninisterielle de Reorganiaation du Circuit Cerealier, March 7, 1977, for sales of cereals;
CEGOS, Etude des Structires de Prix et des Mecanismes de la Commnercialisation des Mils et Sorghos, Paris, 1976, Vol. II, p.8 for pur-
chases 1974/75; infornmtion from  OPAM for purchases 1975/76, and stracture of purchases 1974/75.
21I-



35 -                      ANNEX 1
Table 4
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Rice Milling Capacity (Tons of Paddy)
A.   Existing
Korouba (OPAM)                                   6,000  (3 shifts)
Tamani (Private)                               11,000   "    "
Diafarabe (OPAM)                               13,800   "
Sevare (ORM)                                   15,000   "    "
Molodo (ON)                                    18,000   "
Kourouma (ON)                                  18,000   " 
Kolongotomo (ON)                               12,000   "    "
N'Diebougou (ON)                               18,000   "
Theoretical Capacity in 1977                  111,000   "
B.   Planned
Dioro (ORS)                                    20,000   " 
Sikasso (CMDT)                                 12,000   "    "  1/
Projected Capacity 1980                       143,000
1/ Mali-Sud Staff Project Report, No. 1171-MLI, para. 3.21.



- 36 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
The Project Area
General
1.        The Mopti region is located in the central part of the Niger flood
plains, which extend over a length of more than 500 km with widths varying be-
tween 150 and 200 km. Because of the size of the area, flood levels are suf-
ficiently shallow to allow rice cultivation. About 100,000 ha are estimated
to be cultivated under the traditional uncontrolled flooding. Rice is the
basic food crop in the region; livestock and fishing are important secondary
activities.
Climate
2.        Rains are concentrated Ln a single rainy season, from May to October;
rainfall averages 550 mm per year at Mopti, increasing from the north of the
project area (450 mm) towards the south (650 mm). Average annual temperature
is 280C, with small seasonal but important daily variations, especially during
the dry season.
Soils
3.        A soil classification carried out in the project area indicates
that 96% of the soils are suitable for rice cultivation. Heavy soils with
a fine to very fine texture and a high clay content (over 40% of clay) are
found in the low-lying areas, whereas lighter soils with a coarse texture in
the upper layers and a clay content of about 10% predominate in the more ele-
vated areas. Areas having the latter type of soils and not subject to flood-
ing are often the sites of villages and are used to grow subsistence crops
other than rice, such as sorghum and millet.
Hydrology and Flooding System
4.        The floods of the Niger and its main tributary in Mali, the Bani,
have been recorded for about forty years. In the Mopti area, these floods
start in June/July and reach a maximum in mid October; they subside by
February/March. In years of normal or close to normal rainfall, rice fields
are flooded 30-40 days after sowing. For a description of the flood cul-
tivation system, see Annex 3.
5.        In the absence of levelling, water depth during the flood period
is uneven, reaching 3 m in the low-lying rice cultivated fields. Under such



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
conditions, only floating rice can be grown and yields are in the order of
0.7 ton of paddy per ha. In the early 1950's, the Rural Works Department
(RWD) of the Ministry of Production constructed some polders in the project
area. However, because many were poorly designed and others were not prop-
erly operated and maintained, not more than 40% of the empoldered area
was suitable for paddy cultivation, with yields averaging only 0.9 ton of
paddy/ha. A review of polder design criteria was started in 1965 under a
UNDP/PAO project and, as a result, new standards were set up to govern height
of dikes, waterflow through the intakes, timing of submersion, and delinea-
tion of the areas suitable for the main rice varieties. These standards were
used for the improvement of some of the existing polders and the construction
of several new ones under Credit 277-NLI. Average yields in improved areas
increased to 1.0 - 1.1 tons of paddy/ha even before extension services became
operational.
6.        During the drought years of 1972/73 and 1973/74, less than half of
the polders of the Mopti Rice Project were flooded. The drought years induced
a revision by RWD of design standards (Annex 3). The new standards have been
applied to the design of the proposed Mopti II Rice polders and have also
been the basis for a revision of areas to be cultivated in polders developed
under Credit 277-MLI.
Population
7.        Villages in the project area are concentrated along the rivers and
range in population from about 600 to 1,000 inhabitants.2 Average population
density in the province of Mopti is only about 12 per km . Population density
is lower on the Niger and the left bank of the Bani than on the right bank of
the Bani where the majority of the polders developed under Credit 277-MLI are
located. The proposed extensions will also be on the right bank of the Bani.
Farming Systems and Land Tenure
8.        Farm families in existing polders cultivate about 2.4 ha of paddy
on average, the same area as those cultivating rice outside polders. In
addition, the average family grows about 1.4 ha of other subsistence crops,
such as sorghum and millet. Shifting cultivation is practiced for sorghum
and millet on the higher areas, while rice is continually cultivated on low-
lying and polder soils. Yields are low, averaging about 0.7 tons of paddy/ha
in traditional cultivation. Average yields for millet and sorghum are of the
same order of magnitude.
9.        Individual property rights do not exist and land for cultivation
is usually allocated among farmers by the village chief. In the ORM polders,
however, this responsibility has been turned over to the Director of ORM
which, so far, has not created any major problems as ORM has worked closely
with the local authorities.



-38 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       The flood plains are also an important livestock region, as many
ponds and lakes carry water throughout the dry season after the floods have
receded, offering grazing land and watering facilities to the herds. Although
most of the herds are held by nomnadic tribes one out of every two or three
farmers in the project area owns a pair of draft oxen.
Agriculture Research
11.       The French Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IRAT) has
been carrying out experiments on rice in two research stations in Mali, one
of which (Ibetemi) is located in the project area. The main purpose of the
rice research program has been to test desirable varieties and adapt them
to existing ecological conditions and to increase their productivity through
application of improved techniques. These targets have been gradually
achieved, starting from local varieties, followed by improved varieties,
and later by new varieties selected for both irrigated and floating rice
and having different growing periods. The research station has been trans-
ferred, with the seedfarm, to the polder of Mopti-Nord in 1975. IRAT is
phasing out its research and will' be replaced, as from 1977, by a research
team of the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA). Applied agri-
cultural research (recherche d'ac:compagnement) in the project polders is
carried out by ORM under the supervision of the Institut d'Economie Rurale
(IER), which has overall responsibility for coordinating agricultural re-
search.
Transport
12.       A paved road along the eastern edge of the flood plains connects
Mopti with the capital, Bamako, and all but three of the polders of the first
Mopti Rice Project connect directly with it. Large parts of the Mopti-San
section of this road are in the process of rapid disintegration since a few
years. Two polders, on the western side of the plains, connect indirectly
with the Mopti-Bamako highway by a road that is passable only during the dry
season. One small polder, opposite Mopti, can only be reached by boat. The
new polders to be developed under the proposed project are all close to the
Mopti-Bamako road.
Rice Milling
13.       A rice mill with a capacity of 15,000 tons was constructed with
financial and technical assistance from China at Sevare, close to the ORM
headquarters and started operations in 1974/75. It was attached to ORM whose
Director supervises the mill run by three Chinese technicians and Malian
staff. It processes paddy produced in the Mopti area as well as paddy brought
from Segou and Sikasso areas. The mill is operating efficiently but lacks
storage space. Another rice mill is located on the left bank of the Niger at
Diafarabe, near two polders of the Mopti Rice Project. It is operated by OPAM
and was closed in the early 'seventies because of insufficient domestic paddy
supply. The mill was re-activated in 1977 but produces only small amounts
of rice due to lack of qualified personnel and mechanical problems. Its re-
habilitation, or replacement, is under study by OPAM.



-39 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Rice Cultivation Under Controlled Flooding
Uncontrolled and Controlled Flooding Systems
1.        In the Mopti area, rainfall starts in June, reaches a peak in
August and stops in early October. The flood of the Niger river has the
same pattern but follows the rainfall with an approximate delay of two months.
In average years, the flood starts in mid-July, reaches a peak in mid-October
and ends its recession early February.
2.        Under traditional cultivation methods in the Niger river flood
plains, floating rice is sown at the onset of the rainy season and is grown
under rainfed conditions during the first phase of its vegetative cycle. When
the water level in the river rises, the plain is progressively inundated and
then rice grows under submersion conditions. This cultivation system has
various drawbacks since rice production is highly dependent upon:
(a) the rising velocity of the water level in the plain;
(b) the maximum level of the water in the plain;
(c) the duration of the submersion of the rice fields;
(d) the incidence of rice-eating fish in the river.
3.        The traditional system of uncontrolled flooding can be transformed
into a system of controlled flooding by some simple works: a protection dike
is built around the flood plain, thus creating a polder. Intake/offtake
structures with gates control the filling as well as the drainage of the
empoldered plain. A system of canals, linking the bottom areas of the flood
plain, is designed to improve filling and drainage conditions. These hydrau-
lic works permit:
(a) control of the rising velocity of the water level in the
polder;
(b) control of the maximum water level inside the polders and
delaying the drying of the polders when the river recedes;
(c) control of the damages caused by rice-eating fish through
screens put in front of the intake structure.



- 40 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 2
Rice Cultivation Under Controlled Flooding
4.        In the polders of the Mopti region, rice is sown at the beginning
of the rainy season and is grown under rainfed conditions for the first phase
of its cycle. Depending upon the maximum water level allowed in the polder
and upon the topography of the plain, two different areas for rice cultivation
can be defined:
(a) a high area, where the water depth would be below 45 cm
and where non-floating rice varieties (riz dresse) can
be grown;
(b) a lower area, where the water depth would be between 25 cm
and 150 - 175 cm, and where floating-rice varieties would
be grown; where the water depth exceeds 1.75 m, polders
are not cultivated but a natural pasture of excellent
quality, commonly called Bourgou (Echinocloa Stagnina)
thrives in these zones and constitutes a very nutritious
fodder for the numerous cattle of the region during the
long dry season.
5.        The land is prepared with ox-drawn equipment as soon as the soils
are sufficiently moistened by the rains (around the end of June). It is
recommended to sow rice as early as possible since rice plants must be suf-
ficiently strong and developed when the polder is flooded. Experience showed
that submersion of rice should start 35-40 days after sowing.
6.        When filling of the polder starts, the gates of the intake struc-
ture are maintained completely oper so as to fill the lowest uncultivated
areas (Bourgou pastures) as fast as possible; the rising velocity of the water
level can reach 10 cm per day (which is the average rising velocity of the
flood outside the polder). When the water level reaches the lower limit of
the floating rice fringe, the gates of the intake structure are partly closed,
reducing the rising velocity of the water level to not more than 5 cm per day,
which is the maximum acceptable velocity of flooding. When the non-floating
rice fringe is reached, the gates are closed further to keep the rising velo-
city below 3.3 cm per day. Since from August until mid-September the rising
velocity of the water level outside the polder is much higher than 5 cm/day,
the polder works delay submersion of the upper fringes where non-floating rice
is grown. Statistical analysis of the rainfall over 30 years on a 10 day
basis, from the 20th of August until the end of September, showed that, in
order to assure optimum yields with a good probability, the flooding of the
non-floating rice areas should not be delayed beyond mid-September. Other-
wise, the carry-over of rainfall moisture in the soil will be insufficient.
7.        If, in the upper fringe, rice is sown too early, there is a greater
risk from water shortage during the second half of September, when the rains
are much reduced and the flood has aot yet reached the paddy fields. Likewise,
in the lower fringe, if rice is sowI too early, the sowing is likely to fail



- 41 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 3
if June rainfall is erratic. Consequently, the recommended dates of sowing are
spread between the 15th of July and the 15th of August, according to the type
of rice (floating or non-floating) and to the elevation of the paddy field.
8.        The last hydrological constraint relates to the drainage of the
paddy fields which is, of course, of greater importance for the floating
rice area (lower fringes). Even for the latest maturing floating varieties,
drainage should not be delayed beyond end December/early January. Since,
for economic reasons, drainage has to be carried out by gravity, the lower
limit of the floating rice fields has to be fixed high enough to allow
good drainage with a sufficiently high probability.
Limitations
9.        The constraints described above show that full water control is
not assured with this type of simple irrigation. Consequently, a careful
selection of the flood plains and of the elevations of the fringes allocated
to non-floating and floating varieties has to be made to provide the partici-
pating farmers with adequate insurance against crop failures.
10.       The polders of Mopti I Rice Project were designed to provide a 90%
(f=0.9) assurance for the timely watering of the different fringes of the
polders. Unfortunately, during the 1972 and 1973 droughts, very low floods
occurred on the Niger and Bani rivers (recurrence of once in 50-60 years),
and the harvested areas were very small in relation to the sown areas (35%
and 53%, respectively). Design standards corresponding to a given desired
flooding probability had to be redefined in the light of recent experience;
in addition, it was decided to raise the desired flooding assurance to 95%.
Possibilities of Improving Water Control Within the Folders
11.       The simplest way to improve water control and flooding probability
within the impoldered areas is to raise the lower limit of the floating-rice
zone and, on the other hand, to lower the upper limit of the non-floating
rice zone with the consequence of reducing the cultivable area for each polder.
Since the hydraulic works remain virtually unchanged, such a modification would
entail an increase in the investment costs per ha of between 10 and 20%. This
is the price to pay for a better assurance of adequate flooding (0.95 instead
of 0.90), and for smaller depths of flooding (max. 1.40 m instead of 2 m) with
their beneficial effect on yields.
12.       In addition, the topography of new polders should be carefully
surveyed in order to ensure that ground levels are low enough (in relation
to flood levels in the river) to permit a 0.95 assurance of adequate flooding.
This would, for instance, eliminate the polders located along the Bani river
upstream of the Syn-Sarantomo polder.
13.       The culti-able areas of the Mopti I project have been reduced, as
a consequence of these measures, from 31,100 ha to 26,200 ha. The polders
to be developed under the proposed project have been designed and selected
according to the principles set out in paras 11 and 12 above.



-42 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALI
MOPT] II RICE PROJECT
The Mopti I Rice Project (Cr. 277-MLI)
A. Background
1.        The project was started as part of Government's effort to reverse
the trend of increasing rice imports which was registered in the late sixties.
The Operation Riz, founded in 1969 for the purpose of developing rice cultiva-
tion by controlled flooding in the Niger flood plains, was split in an Oper-
ation Riz Segou, financed by the European Development Fund (EDF), and an
Operation Riz Mopti (ORM) for which financial assistance was provided by IDA
and technical assistance by French aid (FAC). The project was identified by
RMWA and prepared by Government with assistance from FAC and UNDP financed
consultants. The project was appraised in April/May 1971.
B.   Project Description
2.        The project consisted originally of:
-    the construction of 3 polders with an area of 13,300 ha;
-    the rehabilitation of 5 polders with an area of 13,200 ha;
-    land preparation (deep ploughing) on part of the new and
the rehabilitated polders as well as on one further existing
polder, altogether on 10,300 ha;
-    construction of offices, houses, workshops, stores and sheds
for the project;
-    acquisition of vehicles and farm machinery (tractors, trailers,
threshers, seeders);
-    an applied agricultural research program;
-    establishment and operation of a seed farm;
-    technical assistance for project management; and
-    staff and operating cost of the project authority.
The project also included the feasibility study for the second Mopti Rice
Project.



-43-                       ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The project's objective was to raise production of paddy by 35,000
tons by 1982. Total project area was planned to be 31,000 ha. Yields were
to increase from 0.70 t/ha (traditional outside polders) and 0.88 t/ha (tradi-
tional within polders) to 1.86 t/ha, i.e. by 1.0 - 1.2 t/ha. This was to be
achieved through the introduction of improved seed (sativa varieties instead
of glaberrima), improved and timely ploughing and seeding initially, and
through line-sowing, intensive weeding and the application of fertilizer in
the later stages. A total of 7,300 farms were expected to be reached by the
project (4.25 ha/farm). 40% of farmers were expected to adopt the complete
package, a further 20%, the package without fertilizer while 20% of farmers
would only use improved seeds and apply prescribed ploughing and harrowing
techniques. The last 20% of farmers would continue to apply traditional
methods and not even use improved seeds.
4.        The project started on June 1, 1972 and will terminate on May 31,
1978. Total cost was originally estimated at US$9.4 million net of taxes,
of which IDA contributed US$6.9 million and FAC US$0.7 million. In 1975, a
supplementary credit of US$2.6 million was granted by IDA, and FAC contri-
buted an additional of US$0.5 million in order to offset the dollar devalua-
tion, meet certain cost overruns and provide for minor changes in project
design (fortification of dikes with a laterite cover and substitution of
wooden gates by iron gates). Of the total IDA Credit of US$9.5 million, all
but US$0.86 million had been disbursed as of June 9, 1977.
C. Project Execution
Project Organization
5.        The Operation Riz Mopti (ORM) has the managerial and financial
autonomy common to all Operations de Development. The Director of ORM, who
is Malian, is a senior agriculturalist, who reports to the Ministry of Rural
Development.
6.        The project employed a staff of 318 in mid-1977.  Technical assist-
ance, provided by consultants SCET International (France), decreased from
seven professionals in 1972 to four in 1976 and two in 1977.
7.        ORM originally consisted of 10 Sections which all reported directly
to the Director. In 1976, these Sections were grouped into four Divisions,
i.e.
-    Administration, Finance, Accounts
-    Rural Works
-    Production and Extension
-    Supplies; Mechanization.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        Extension staff is organized in four zones, each comprising 2 - 3
polders. In 1975/76, there was one extension agent for 78 farms on average
(or I agent per 150 ha) which is a high density. Staff has undergone exten-
sive training at project headquarters and has also produced detailed statis-
tics of participating farmers, their equipment, sowings, applied techniques,
marketed quantities etc. Indeed thie staff appears to be tied up excessively
by these statistical tasks and by narketing activities during the time when
extension efforts are critically needed.
9.        An Evaluation Unit has been set up in early 1977.  It will monitor
farmers' response to the improved cultivation techniques recommended by ex-
tension services, evaluate the results from the technical and economical point
of view and propose supporting or corrective measures.
Civil Works and Deep Ploughing
10.       Execution of civil works was temporarily hampered by a bottleneck
in cement supplies but proceeded satisfactorily in 1975 and 1976. Civil
works are now virtually completed.
11.       As a consequence of the experience in the drought years 1972/73 and
1973/74, when only 1/3 and 1/2 of developed areas were inundated, respectively,
the net cultivable area of each poLder was redefined in order to arrive at a
probability inundation of 0.95 instead of 0.90. Both the upper fringes and
the lowest fringes of polders were eliminated which resulted in a reduction of
the cultivable area from 31,090 ha to 26,200 ha, or by 15% (Table 1).
12.       Part of the 26,200 ha were found to require additional investment.
The original investment had been very light (total cost only US$400/ha for
new polders and less than US$100 for the rehabilitation of existing polders).
Several canals will need to be widened or deepened to give optimum service,
and some secondary channels and drainage structures will have to be built
(Table 1). These works will be included under the proposed project.
13.       Deep ploughing has been carried out on 8,900 ha instead of the
10,300 ha provided for in the appraisal report. The reason is that the
contractor for the rural works, who had also carried out the deep ploughing,
abandoned the residual works in 1975, preferring to pay the statutory penalty.
In his absence, no alternative contractor could be induced to undertake the
deep ploughing of a mere 1,400 ha. Residual rural works were completed by
local sub-contractors and, by force account, by the Rural Works Department
which, however, does not have the heavy tractors required for deep ploughing.
Social Structure of Project Partic:pants
14.       The average area attributed per family unit has remained consider-
ably behind appraisal estimates of 4.25 ha and has even shown a declining
tendency (Table 2). As a result, the number of participating farmers, close
to 9,000 families in 1976/77, already far exceeds the 7,300 anticipated for
full development. The small size of holdings (2.4 ha on average) reflects the



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
limited equipment of farmers and their consequent inability to effectively
cope with larger holdings. About one farmer out of two has a pair of oxen
and a plough while few have harrows and carts (Table 3). This equipment is
sufficient, however, to plough the attributed areas if exchange of services
between farm units is taken into account; the accepted equipment ratio is one
plough for 4 ha.
15.       The share of professional groups other than full-time farmers is
fairly high in the project (Table 4), in particular in the polder close to
Mopti, where much land was allocated to civil servants and to traders. Other
professional groups like fishermen and artisans are closer to farmers in
their style of farm management, while civil servants and traders rely heavily
on hired labor and on use of farm machinery. Some of these participants have
run into labor bottlenecks in recent years.
16.       While the average size of holdings has remained considerably below
appraisal estimates (para. 14) some participants have inordinately large
farms as shown by the breakdown in Table 5. While the number of these large
holdings is small, their share in total attributed area is not negligible.
The project authority is taking steps to reduce the size of these farms to
a maximum of 2 ha per active male person.
Production and Cultivation Techniques
17.       Development of attributed and sown areas as well as of yields and
paddy production is summarized in Table 2. Achievements have been compared
with appraisal estimates adjusted for the reduction in cultivable area
mentioned in para. 11. It appears that the development of cultivated area
has by and large followed the revised appraisal estimate, and the same is
true for yields with the exception of the drought years 1972/73 and 1973/74.
18.       The substitution of Sativa rice varieties for the traditional
Glaberrima rice was unexpectedly rapid and is now complete, far ahead of
appraisal estimates (Table 6). On the other hand, cultivation techniques
did not develop much beyond the traditional methods which farmers used before
joining the project. In particular weeding practices are very deficient
(Table 6). There was, however, some encouraging progress in repeat ploughing
and, in 1976/77, a significant progress in timely sowing. Appraisal report
targets for the more advanced techniques, line-sowing and improved weeding
by cultivator and, ultimately, fertilizer use, will not be met within the
project period. Introduction of line-sowing, the prerequisite for effective
weeding and for making good use of fertilizer, was retarded by the lack of
a seeder adapted to local conditions. Following the identification and
acquisition of a suitable type, line-sowing has begun on a modest scale and
has reached about 6X of the cultivated area in 1976/77 (Table 6). Details
of cultivation techniques, by individual polders, are at Table 7.
19.       The delay in line-sowing and the concomitant stagnation in weeding
techniques has been the main cause of the wild-rice infestation registered
in several polders. Considerable areas in Mopti Sud, Soufouroulaye, and



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
Diambakourou were abandoned by farmers and must be reclaimed through deep-
ploughing and/or "faucardage" (cutting weeds underwater). Faucardage has
been carried out by farmers and by ORM on 2,943 ha in 1975/76 and, by farmers
alone, on 2,095 ha in 1976/77. Since one harvest is lost on these reclaimed
areas, this accounts for part of the difference between sown areas and har-
vested areas (Table 2). Other reasons are hydraulic deficiencies (leading
to insufficient flooding) or plagues (locusts, rats).
20.       Marketed production doubled between 1974/75 and 1975/76 and in-
creased by one third again in 1976/77 reaching 8,800 tons of paddy or 35% of
production. Part of this consists of development levies (120 kg/ha in 1976/
77), the remainder of payment in kind for threshing services, and of paddy
sold directly to OPAM. Marketed 'production is milled at the Sevare rice
mill (capacity 15,000 tons of paddy) which was constructed with the assis-
tance of China. The mill has been put under the general supervision of the
Director of ORM and mills paddy from other rice-growing areas as well.
21.       The equipment pool of ORM (38 tractors with trailers, 50 threshers)
was considerably underutilized. ]Farmers made few claims on tractor services
for ploughing or harrowing (in 1975/76 and 1976/77, 500 ha and 1,000 ha,
respectively). Tractors and trailers were used mainly for the transport
of marketed quantities of paddy. Of the 8,800 tons marketed in 1976/77,
5,300 tons were threshed mechanically, which was a substantial progress
compared to preceding years. This quantity used only 20% of total thresh-
ing capacity, however. Better training of operators, better coordination
of field operations and improved access to fields are preconditions of a
better utilization of threshers.
Seed Farm and Agricultural Researc:h
22.       The function of the seed farm is to produce Elite 3 seed for the
renewal of seed used by farmers. Improved seeds are to be renewed every four
years. A seed farm (200 ha) existed adjacent to the IRAT research station in
the Ibetemi polder. Because of the hydrological problems of that polder and
because it is situated on the left bank of the Bani, separated from the main
polders, a new seed farm (220 ha) was created in the Mopti Nord polder. The
seed farm is equipped with a pump scheme to provide supplementary water in
case of unsatisfactory rains or low flood levels. It started operations in
1975/76.
23.       Results were disappointing.  In its first two years, the seed farm
achieved yields of about 1.6 t/ha only in spite of intensive soil prepara-
tion and application of 100 kg/ha of phosphate of ammonia. The farm showed
weed and wild rice infestation from its first year of operation. Also, the
seed to be distributed to farmers was partially unsorted. These facts point
to poor management and insufficient supervision by ORM.
24.       Agricultural research in ORM in recent years has concentrated on
yield responses of various cultivation techniques (spacing of seed, timing
of ploughing, intensity of weeding) and on labor requirements of a 4 ha rice



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
farm with varying use of equipment. Methods of wild rice eradication were
a further subject. Since the phasing out of the IRAT research program at
Ibetemi, the execution of the research program has suffered from a lack of
competent supervision. The new project will provide for closer supervision
and a re-orientation of technical assistance to this task.
D.   Financial Status of ORM
25.       The appraisal report estimated that a development levy of 60 kg of
paddy per ha, to be raised to 120 kg/ha after 5 years and to 180 kg/ha after
10 years, would be sufficient to pay for ORM recurrent costs and recover
all direct investment. ORM has chosen, however, to raise the levy gradually
by 20 kg/ha annually until the level of 180 kg/ha is reached. In 1976177,
the levy was 120 kg/ha, in 1977/78 it will be raised to 140 kg/ha. Recov-
ery rates have been around 85% in recent years which is a good performance
considering the uneven yields experienced by farmers as a consequence of
uneven flooding conditions.
26.       Due to several factors (reduction in cultivable area, steep increase
in various elements of recurrent costs) the original financing plan will no
longer ensure financial self-sufficiency of the project at full development.
The project's high cost of production per ton (or per hectare) is not directly
significant as ORM has not yet reached full development, and unit overheads
may be expected to decrease. Still, levies higher than those presently
applied must be foreseen. In addition, efforts must be made:
-    to raise yields as rapidly as possible since the levy
which farmers will be willing to pay will be a func-
tion of incremental production;
-    to increase the productivity of existing staff and
equipment; and
-    to spread ORM overheads over a larger area.
E.  Rate of Return
27.       In the absence of the Mopti II Rice Project, the rate of return
of the first Mopti Rice Project would be close to the appraisal estimate of
14%. This projection is based on the actual development of costs, cultivated
areas and yields until 1977 and on the projections used in the "without the
project" hypothesis for the evaluation of the Mopti II Rice Project (Annex 9,
Table 2). Increases in cost, reductions in cultivable areas and slightly
lower yield assumptions are offset by the substantial increase in the eco-
nomic price of rice since 1971.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Development of Cultivable Area Estimate. of Mopti I Rice Project
Net Cultivable Area                    Net Area    Difference      Works Required to Arrive at
Appraisal      Revised                    Without    from Revised        Full Development of
Polder          Report 1971   Figure 1975   Difference   Mopti II           Area              Revised Area
Mopti Sud              4,720          4,720          -           2,000      - 2,720        Deepening of intake channel;
secondary channels; gates; DP 1/
Soufouroulaye          5,780         4,900      -   880          4,400      -   500       Widening of intake channel;
drainage structures; DP
Ibetemi                  300            400     +   100            175      -   225        Improvement of dike; DP
Mo-ti Nord             U,Ou0          5,800     - 1,000          5,200      -   600        Deepening of intake channel; DP
Karbaye                  710            710           -             514     -   196        DP
Diambakourou             570            570          -              275     -   295        DP                               C
Sofara                   730            730          -             730           -         Diglng of new intake channel
Syn                    4,000         2,00n      - 2,000          1,881      -   119       DP
Tenenkou               5,130         4,600      -   530          3,625      -   975       DP
Dia                    2,350          1,770     -   580            500      - 1,270        DP
Total                 31,090         26,200     - 4,890         19,300      - 6,900
1/ DP s Deep ploughing.
4-9



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Development of Attributed, Sown and !Marvested Area, Yields and Paddy Production of the Mopti I Project
Agricultural Year                     1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
Attributed Area (ha)                   6,960       9,300     16,276      21,158      21,330
Number of Farm Units                    n.a        3,304       6,495      8,790       8,975
Attributed Area per Unit (ha)            .             2.81        2.51        2.41        2.38
Sown Area (ha)
Appraisal Estimate                     5,970      11,470      17,230     20,010      22,630      25,250
Revised Estimate 1/                    5,027       9,658     14,508      16,850      19,054      21,260
Actual                                 5,454       7,503     13,862      16,074      18,245
Actual in Z of
Revised Estimate                       108          78          95          95          96
Harvested Area (ha)                    1,808       3,954      11,968     12,703      14,890
in % of Sown Area                         333/        53 3/       86          79          82
Yields (kg/ha)
Appraisal Estimate                       880       1,010       1,200       1,290       1,410       1,530
Actual
per ha Sown                            265 3/      500 3/   1,397        1,147      1,392
per ha harvested                       800         948       1,618       1,451      1,705
Yields 2/ in % of
Appraisal Estimate                    33          50         116          89          99
Production (t)
Appraisal Estimate                     5,254      11,585      20,676      25,929      31,908      38,633
Revised Estimate 1/                    4,426       9,755      17,409      21,832      26,867      32,529
Actual                                 1,446       3,749      19,361      18,440      25,400
Actual in % of
revised Estimate                        33          38         ill          84          95
1/ ReduaLag gown Areas and Production in the same proportion as total area to be developed, i.e.
26,200 be: 31,090 ha a 0.842.
2/ Per ha sown.
3   Dreught years.



-.50 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Development of Equipment on Mopti I Rice Farms
1972/73     1973/74    1974/75  -- 1975176   1976/77    1977/78
Sown Area (ha)          5,454         7,503     13,862       16,074    17,939
Number of Farms          n.a          3,304      6,495        8,790     8,975
Ploughs                                          3,611        4,278     4,384
Harrows                                            419          507       571
Carts                                              324          388       413
In % of Farms 1/
Pairs of Oxen                                       64           57       n.a
Ploughs                                             56           49        49
Harrows                                              6.5          5.8       6.4
Carts                                                5.0          4.4       4.6
Sown Area per Unit (ha)
Pairs of Oxen                                        3.35         3.20     n.a
Ploughs                                              3.84         3.76      4.09
Ha. Sown per Farm        n.a               2.27      2.13         1.83      2.00
1/ Since some farms have more than one pair of oxen or more than one item of
equipment, the percentage does not express the share of equipped farms.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Mopti I Rice Project: Breakdown of Participants by Farmers and Non-Farmers
Polder           Farmers       Other Professions        Attributed Area (ha)         Total Area Attributed (ha)        Other
No.           No.         %            Farmers    Other          Farmers      Other      Total      (in %)
Mopti-Nord          2,087          1,061 1/   34              1.82       1.65           3,792      1,746      5,538       32
Mopti-Sud             566            374      40              2.84       2.32           1.606         866     2,472       35
Diambacourou          163             26      14              2.22       2.00             362          52       414       13
Soufouroulaye       1,203             90       7              3.74      -2.09           4,497        189      4,686        4
Karbaye               189             42      18              2.82       2.15             534          90       624       14
Ibetemi                59            127      68              2.37       2.07             140         264       404       65
Dia                   194             92      32              1.75       2.14             340         197       537       37
Tenenkou            1,027            113      10              3.11       2.09           3,199         236     3,435        7
Sofara                332            118      26              1.64       1.62             545         191       736       26
Syn                   870            106      11              2.37       2.43           2,061         252     2,313       11
Total               6,690          2,149      24              2.55       1.90          17,076      4,083    21,159        19
1/ Breakdown for Mopti-Nord: 368 civil servants, 387 traders, 111 artisans, 62 fishermen, 15 pastoralists,
50 "religieux", 17 pensioners, 51 non-identified and sundry occupations.
N.B.  Nearly three quarters of the non-farmers have holdings in the three polders closest to Mopti, i.e. Mopti-Nord
(50%), Mopti-Sud (17%) and Ibetemi (6%).  The share of non-farmers in the remaining seven polders is 16 percent           &
in numbers and 10 percent in area attributed.                                                                              t 
mx



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Distribution of Holdings per Family in the Mopti I Rice Project (1975/76)
Less
Farm Size                                                                                                           than
(ha attributed)            21-25    16-20    11-15         10        9         8         7         6         5      5 ha
Number of Farm Units 1/    4          13        77          45        35       57        90       235       265    7,969
Cumulative                            17        94         139       174      231       321       556       821
in % of Total Number         .         0.2       1.1         1.6       2.0       2.6      3.7       6.3       9.3      90.7
Number of ha 2/             92       234       951         450       315      456       630    1,410    1,325   15,295,
Cumulative                           326    1,277        1,727    2,042    2,498    3,128    4,538    5,863
in % of Total Area           0.4       1.5       6.0         8.2       9.7     11.8      14.8      21.4      27.7      72.3
1/ Unpublished data of ORM.
2/ Derived from the above data.
less than 0.05%.
(DX>
Iji>



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Adoption of Cultivation Techniques
in the Mopti I Rice Project
(in Z of area sown)
1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78
End of Season
Ploughing                                            23        42
Repeat Ploughing in
Z of End-of-Season
Ploughing                                            57        84
Harrowing                                      50       46       58
Line Sowing                                              1.2      6.0
Weeding                                        68       65       55
Fertilizer                                                        2.0
Improved Seed               0        38        90       99      100



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Cultivated Area and Cultivation Techniques Used in 1976/?7  the _opti I Rise Prol%,
(November 1976)
A.gri          erationa Eecuted (ha)
Polder             Attributed     husber of       Average        Number of      Sown    Area Sown        End of       Rept 
Area       Farm Units     Sisa of Plot  Ea=n Units    Are    per Farmer           Season      Ploughing       Season                    Sowing
(ha)                          (ha)        Cultivating    (ba)        (ha)       Ploughing                    Ploughing
hopti Bud               2,541            968          2.63              689       1,618       2.35            421           439         1,197           211        54          386
Ibetemi                   403            186          2.17              178         348       1.96            59            44            289           120        34          120
umiouroulaye            4,oo6          1,293          3.62            1,145       4,085       3.57          2,323        2,260           1,762         3,026       204       2,279
Nopti Nord              5,600          3,155          1.77            3,155       5,200       1.65          2,627        1,689          2,573         3,223        297       3,692
Karbaye                   624            231          2.70              231         514       2.23            402           402            112           490        45          284
Di" bauourou              441            210          2.10              174         274       1.57             93            88            181           255        31          113
Sofara                    730            450          1.62              444         728       1.64            455           421            273           728        90         513
Syn                     2,319            976          2.38              930       1,881       2.02            699           706          1,182         1,484       253           17
T*nenkou                3,465          1,220          2.84            1,220       2,904       2.38            473           278          2,431           794        36        2,129
Dia                       535            286          1.87              229         387       1.69             19            19            368            34         5          1i1
Total                  21,344          8,975          2.38            8,395      17,939       2.14          7,571         6,346         10,368        10,365     1,049        9,674
N.B. Actual areas sown were slightly higher than estimated in November 1976 and ehown in Table 2.
Source: O8N



- 55 -                   ANNEX 5
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Components
1.        The four new polders (8,800 ha) to be developed were selected from
the 40,000 ha studied by IER according to the following criteria:
-    proximity to ORM's headquarters and to other major
polders;
-    availability of population;
-    ease of access;  .
-    external economies, and
-    cost per hectare.
2.        Important external economies will be derived from the construction
of the two largest polders (7,700 ha) as the structures required for their
flooding substantially improve the flooding of two adjacent polders con-
structed under Credit 277-MLI. The four polders selected rank high on all
counts except costs per hectare, where they occupy medium positions.
3.        The nature of the consolidation investments to be carried out in
some of the Mopti I polders is indicated in Table 1.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
PROGRAM OF CIVIL WORKS
Polders                                        Type of Work                        Schedule of Execution
1978     1979       1980      1981     1982
A. Polders Improved under Credit 277-MLI
1. Mopti Nord                                  Deepening of Bassina channel                    x
Laterite cover on dikes (10.0 km)               x
2. Mopti Sud                                   Laterite on dike Tibo-Dabi (6.3 km)             x
Deepening of intake channel                     x
Digging of secondary channels                   x
Gates for two existing intake                   x
structures
3. Soufouroulaye                               Widening of intake channel                      x          x
Two drainage structures                         x          x
Improvement of internal drainage                x         x
4. Ibetemi                                     Improvement of dike; gates for                  x                                   @
existing intake structures
5. Syn-Sarantono I                             Access road 1/                                  X
G. Dia- Tenenkou                               Gates for existing intake structures            x
7. 30f aa                                      Digging of intake channel                       x
B. Existing Polders NDt Improved
under Credit 277-HLI 2/                        none
C. New Polders
1. Saremala (3,120 ha)                         Dike, intake and drainage structures,                      x         x
2. Ouro-Nema (4,105 ha)                              i        i "   "          "               x          x
3. Tiroguel (1,050 ha)                               "        VI    i                          x          x
i. Torokoro ( 525 ha)                                        "                                            X         x
J  S rves also an access to Beugoula polder net Iicluded in Credit 277-#LI.  See footnote 2 .
/  Bougoula polder (2.085 ha) and 2,000 ha of the Syn-Sarantomo polder originally included in Credit 277-,fLI but excluded  $ |
subsequently because civil works financed under that credit were only sufficient to ensure adequate flooding of 2,000 ham X
instead of the 4,000 ha planned.  Additional civil works for the remaining 2,000 ha as well as for Bougoula will be              I >
executed in 1978 with financing provided by ADB.  See also under B in Tables 2 and 3 below.
3/  Includes a 485 ha extansion of the adjacent Diambakourou polder developed under Credit 277-MLI.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
PROGRAM OF DBP-PLOUGHING (ha)
Polder                   Cultivable          I  Deep-Ploughing                 Schedule of execution
Area if      Executed           Proposed
under              for        1978    1979        1980      198.  1982
Cr. 277,-MLI       Apibti II      -
A. Polders Improved under Cr. 277-MLI
1. Mopti-Sud                         4,720              -               3,500              1,500         1,000     1,000
2. ufoufownmUye                      4,900            1,527             1,000              1,000
3. Ibetemi                             400              -                 300                300
4. Mopti-Nord                        5,800            2,658             2,000              2,000
5. Yarbaye                             710              -                 500                500
6. Diambakourou                        570              260               400                                        400
7. Sofara                              730              444               -
8  Syn-Sarantomo I                   2,000            2,000               _
9g Tenenkou                          6,6oo            2,004             1,000                             500        500
10. Dia                               1,770              -               1,500                             500      1,000
Sub-total                     26,200            8,893            10,200              5,300        2,000      2,900
B. Existing Polders not Improved
Under Credit 2T7-MLI 2/
1. Bougoula                          2,085              -               2,085                           2,085
2. Syn-Sarantomo II                  2,000              -               2,000                           2,000
Sub-total                       4,085              -               4,085                           4,o85
C. New Polders
1. Saremala                          3,120              -               3,120                                      1,000  2,120
2. Ouro-Nema 3                       4,105              -               4,105                          1,300       2,805
3. Tiroguel                          1,050              -               1,050                          1,050
4. Torokoro                            525              -                 525                                        525
Sub-total                       8,800              -               84800                  -       2,350       4,330  2,120
Total Deep-Ploughing                39,085           8,893             23,085              5,300       8,435       7,230  2,120
' For polders listed under Section A., revieed figures.                                                                        0 
?  See footnote 2 of Table 1.
3/ Includes an extension of 485 ha to Diambakourou polder.



ANNEX 5
-58 -                                                 Table 3
KALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Construction of Offices, Houses, Sheds and Stores
Total Required                  Existing                     To be added
Area                                                            2             under Moati II2
(ha)         Number              mZ           Number           m            Number          m
a)    Sheds for SCAER Equipment,1,
Fertilizer. Seeds. etc. -
A. Mopti I Polders                26,200          - no additions required -
B. Other existing Polders
Bougoula                        2,085            2                 150           -               -             2              150
Syn-Sarantomo II                2,000            2                 I1N           -               -             2              150
C. New Polders
Sareuala                        3,120            3                 225           -               -             3              225
Ouro-Nema                       4,105            4                 300           -               -             4              300
Tiroguel                        1,050            1                  75           -               -             1               75
Torokoro                          525            1                  75           -               -             1               75
Subtotal                                    13                  975           -              -             13              975
b)    Sheds for ORM Equipment 2/
A. Mopti I Folders                 26,200          22               1,155            6             315           16               840
B. Other existing Polders
Bougoula                        2,085            2                 105           -               -             2              105
Syn- Sarantomo II               2,000            2                 105           -               -             2              105
C. New Polders
Saremala                        3,120            3                 157           -               -             3              157
Ouro-Nema                       4,105            3                 157           -               -             3              157
Tiroguel                        1,050            1                  53           -               -             1               53
Torokoro                          525            1                  53           -               -             1               53
Subtotal                                    34                1,785           6              315           28            1,470
c)    ORM Mechan. Workshops
Savare                                                                                                        1              600
Tenenkou                                                                                                       1              128
2              728
d)    Storage SPace for Paddv2
A. Mopti I Polders                 26,200                           4,900                         2,775                        2,125
B. Other existing Polders
Bougoula                        2,085                              390                                                        39°
Syn- Sarantomo II               2,000                              375                                                        375
C. New Polders
Saremala                        3,120                              585                                                        585
Ouro-Nema                       4,105                              770                                                        770
Tiroguel                        1,050                              200                                                        200
Torokoro                          525                              100                                                        100
Subtotal                                                      7,320                        2,775                        4,5,5
e)    Offices and Houses
A. Mopti I Polders
Office Mopti- Nord                                                                                            1
Houses for "Chefs de                                                                                         ll
Casier" 4/
B. Other existing Polders
House "Chef de Cagier"
Bougoula                                                                                                1
C. New Polders
Houses "Chefs de Casier"
4 Polders                                                                                              4
D. House with office and
shed for ORM Representative                                                                                   1
at Baako I/
E. Houses for techn_ aaat.                                                                                       2
F. Staff training centers 6p                                                                                     2
1/    One shed at 75 m2 per 1,000 ha.
2/    One shed of 52.5 m  (5x10.5) for 1,200 ha (3 threshers, 1 tractor).
3/    Assaiing 45Z of full production (2 t/ha) to be marketed; storage requirements 50Z of marketed total or 450 kg/ha.  Storage
capacity 2.4 tl 2. Thus 1 *2 storage space for 5.3 ha under cultivation. Number of stores is not specified since the
distribution of additional storage space between the polders and the rice mill will depend on operational requirements.
4/    Including one house for director of seed farm.
5/    Represertative serves as expeditor and entrepot for deliveries to ORM.
6/    In Mopti and Tenenkou.



-59-                      ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Functional Literacy Campaign
1.        Functional literacy training in the local languages (mainly Baabara
to some extent Peulh) started on a larger scale in 1969 when the Operations
de Developpement were launched. Initially supported by UNDP/Unesco, the
movement has spread considerably, and functional literacy courses are now a
feature of seven ongoing Operations including several of the IDA - financed
projects. Government created a Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation
Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique Appliquee (DNAFLA) which is attached to
the Ministry of Education, and has appointed able staff to supervise it.
DNAFLA has a network of regional sub-units which, however, are severely
limited in their activities by lack of funds wherever they are not supported
by foreign sources of finance.
2.        Functional literacy courses typically comprise about 500 hours of
instruction over a 2 year period, mainly in the dry season. Subjects are
taken from the daily life of farmers and also include arithmetic. After
2 years, participants should be able to read the language in which they
have been taught and to perform calculations related to crop marketing and
credit use. Courses are held in the village, mostly in a traditional struc-
ture built for the purpose. Instructors are taken, to the extent possible,
from among literate members of the village community. The cost per literate
is estimated to be about US$40, which compares favorably with the cost of
traditional primary education (US$860).
3.        A recent evaluation noted the increasing interest on the side of
Operations and a decrease of Government officials' initial opposition to the
use of written local languages in official communications. The evaluation
showed up the main problems encountered in the first years, in particular:
(a) lack of adequate teaching materials in local languages;
(b) recruitment problems and, following therefrom, inadequate
supervision of programs; and
(c) organizational difficulties due to lack of experience, and
lack of support from part of the administration.
It has become apparent that farmers having successfully completed
a functional literacy course are more receptive to extension advice and are
better equipped to understand marketing and credit operations.



ANNEX 5
- 60 -                     Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        The proposed Mopti II Rice Project would provide support for func-
tional literacy centers in the project area. Between 1978 and 1982, 220 cen-
ters will be operated, each for a duration of 2 years and providing functional
literacy instruction for 2 times 3 months annually. Each center, or class,
will be attended by about 25 part:Lcipants of whom 15 are expected to attain
the degree of literacy aimed at.
5.        The adult literacy campcign will be fully integrated in ORM but
will receive pedagogical guidance (curriculum development) and monitoring
from the DNAFLA headquarters. A Coordinator will be appointed as a Section
Chief of ORM.  This coordinator would be the local representative of DNAFLA.
Under his direction, there will be 9 heads of Zones d'Alphabetisation Fonc-
tionnelle (ZAF). The heads of ZAF are responsible for relations with vil-
lage committees, the setting up of Adult Literacy Centers, the training of
instructors (animateurs) and the supply of teaching materials and audio-
visual means. Instructors will receive a two week training and be invited
to annual refresher and improvement courses.
6.        Implementation will follow the time-table shown below:
-    June 1978:  evaluation of the 38 existing centers and
general preparation;
-    1st semester 1979:                      20 centers;
-    2nd semester 1979/lst semester 1980:  50 centers;
-    2nd semester 1980/lst semester 1981:  50 centers;
-    mid-1981:  intermediate evaluation of results;
-    2nd semester 1981/1st semester 1982:  50 centers;
-    2nd semester 1982/lst sernester 1983:  50 centers;
-    mid 1983:  final evaluation.



- 61 -                     ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page J
7.        Implementation would be as follows:
Appointment Heads      Refresher      Training of New
of ZAF             Courses        Instructors
1978            3                  48                -
1979            1                  -                  40
1980            2                  40                100
1981            1                 100                100
1982            2                  100              100
1983            -                 100               100
8.        Basic cost elements are:
-    Salary (incl. allowances) head of ZAF MF 576,000/year (US$1,200);
-    Cost of training I instructor MF 11,000 (US$22);
-    Cost of refresher course per instructor:  MF 5,500 (US$11);
-    Cost of equipping 1 center:  MF 66,000 (US$135);
-    Operating cost per center:  MF 11,000 (US$22) annually.
A summary of total cost is at Table 1.
9.        The Coordinator's salary would be paid by Government while the proj-
ect would finance the following elements:
-    salaries and allowances of heads of ZAF;
-    allowances of the Coordinator;
-    training costs of instructors;
-    refresher courses for instructors;
-    one vehicle for the Coordinator;
-    one mobylette for each head of ZAF;



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Page 4
operating expenditure for vehicles;
office equipment; and
teaching materials.



-63 -                                        ANNEX 5
Appendix i
MALI                                        Table 1
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Costs of Adult Literacy Pro-ram
1978 1/     1979            190              1l9             1932             Total
Personnel
Coordinator                   315           540             540              540              765
Driver                         35            60              60               60               85
Reads of ZAF                1,008         2,304           2.880            3,456            6,528
Training of Instructors        -            990           1,100            1,100            1,650
Refresher Courses             264            -              495              550              550
1,622         3,894           5,075            5,706           9,57S            25,875
Equipment
Vehicle                     5,000
Office of coordinator         850
Offices of ZAF                504           168             336              168              336
Mobylettes                    660           220             440              440              440
Centers                        -          2,970           3.300            3,300           4,950
7,014         3,358           4,076            3,908           5,726            24,082
Operating Cost
Vehicle of coordinator      2,000         2,000           2,000            2,000           2,830
Office  of coordinator        300           300             300              300             425
Mobylettes ZAF                300           400             600              700            1,200
Centers ZAF                   275           550             825            1.100           1,375
2,875         3,250           3,725            4,100           5,830            19,780
Support DNAILA
Pedagogical support                         675           1,050            1,500           1,500
Evaluation                                2,500           2,500           2,500            2,500
3,175          3,550            4,000            4,000           14,725
11,511        13,677          16,426          17,714           25,134            84,463 2/
1/ June 1978-may 1979.
2/ Including taxes.



- 64-                      ANNEX 5
Appendix II
Iff)PTI IT -'    2 -7T..ECT
Applied Agricultural Research
1.        Applied research (recherche d'accompagnement) will be carried out
by ORM with scientific guidance and control by IER and the West Africa Rice
Development Association (WARDA); the latter organization has taken over the
rice research station in the Mopti area which until 1976 was operated by the
French research institute IRAT.
2.        Research will concentrate on the following three subjects:
a)   Socio-economic studies aiming at the development of a
model farm with optimal relations between farm size,
labor availability and equipment used. Besides the
operation of such a model farm, the program comprises
the close supervision of selected farms which have
typical characteristics;
b)  Within the framework of the national agricultural
research program, ORM will carry out field trials
(essais multilocaux) for several rice varieties in
each zone of the project area;
c)   Research on appropriate cultivation techniques and
implements, which was at the center of the applied
research program under the first Mopti Rice Project,
will be reduced and limited to supplementary trials
which are to provide further confirmation of the
results obtained.
3.        The main cost elements financed under the project are summarized
below (base costs in December 1977 prices):
FM million
-    Field trials (5 years x 30 trials)                  17.5
-    Socio-economic survey                               29.0
-    Farm equipment and operating expenditure            57.5
Total                             104.0



- 65 -                      ANNEX 5
Appendix III
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
1.        On-farm investment in the project area consists of the following
three items (Amnex 7, Table 10):
-    Oxen
-    Farm implements (ploughs, harrows, tool-bars, carts)
-    Fertilizer.
2.        Farm implements and fertilizer are supplied by SCAER, with ORM
acting as SCAER's agent against a fee of 5% on sales. Very little fertilizer
having been used in ORM before 1977, SCAER sales were mainly related to farm
implements. As Government plans to transfer SCAER's functions to the individ-
ual Operations de Developpement in the course of 1978 (para. 2.13), the proj-
ect will provide agricultural credit in order to enable ORM to effectively
replace SCAER as a supplier of inputs and a source of credit.
3.        Credit will be required, in nearly equal parts, for implements
and fertilizer (Table 1). Oxen are generally procured by farmers directly
from cattle traders. As this appears to work satisfactorily, no change is
envisaged in this procedure, and oxen are, in consequence, not covered by the
credit program.
4.        A credit fund of ME 220 million (US$450,000) will be put at ORM's
disposal 1/. Fertilizer credit will be short term (less than one year) and
will cover the total cost to farmers. To the extent that present fertilizer
subsidies continue, Government has given assurances that ORM will be reim-
bursed for the differences between the cost price and the subsidized prices
charged to farmers. Credit for equipment purchases will cover 70% of the
price to farmers, with repayment of 35% of the principal in each of the
following two years. The rate of interest charged would be 10% per annum
on the amount outstanding.
5.        Since ORM has been acting as credit agent for SCAER, distributing
supplies, collecting repayments and keeping records on outstanding debts,
the complete transfer of responsibilities to ORM is not expected to present
1/   The sum of FM 220 million is arrived at by applying a physical con-
tingency of 10% and the price contingencies listed in Annex 7, Table 12,
to the FM 160.2 million shown in Table 1 of this Appendix.



-66-                      ANNEX5
Appendix III
Page 2
organizational problems. The micro-computer which is to be procured under
the project, will help ORM accountants to administer the credit program
with a minimum of supplementary staff. The interest rate of 10Z should be
sufficient to cover any additional operating expenditure as well as losses
from bad debts.
6.        ORM would be authorized to draw on the Special Account (para. 5.11)
for the pre-financing of farm equipment and fertilizer to be delivered to
farmers.



MALI
MOPTI It RICE PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Needs
(FM Million) 1/
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982    1978-82
On-Farm Investment at Cost Prices 2/         73.1     191.9      178.2      263.6      274.0      980.8
Minus Oxen 2/                                35.9     100.3       65.7       93.1       62.3      357.3
Items to be financed under the
Credit Program                              37.2       91.6      112.5      170.5      211.7     623.5
Minus Subsidies 2/                            7.1      16.3       25.1       39.7       58.6      146.8
Items to be financed under the
Credit Program, at Cost to Farmers          30.1       75.3       87.4      130.8      153.1     476.7
of which: fertilizer                         (7.0)    (13.4)    (28.9)    (47.0)    (78.6)   (174.9)
implements                       (23.1)    (61.9)    (58.5)    (83.8)    (74.5)   (301.8)
a)  Fertilizer                                7.0      13.4       28.9       47.0       78.6      174.9
Credit, incremental                      7.0        6.4       15.5       18.1      31.6       78.6
Farmers' contribution                     -         7.0       13.4       28.9       47.0       96.3
b)  Implements                               23.1      61.9       58.5       83.8       74.5      301.8
Down payments (30%)                      6.9       18.6       17.6       25.1       22.3       90.5
Repayments 3/                             -         8.1       29.8       42.1       49.7     129.7
Credit, incremental                     16.2       35.2       11.1       16.6        2.5      81.6
Total credit                                 23.2      41.6       26.6       34.7       34.1      160.2
Summary of On-Farm Investment, by Source of Finance
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982    1978-82    %       %
Farmers' Contribution                        42.8     134.0      126.5      189.2      181.3      673.8      69
of which: oxen                               35.9     100.3       65.7       93.1       62.3      357.3    (36)
fertilizer and implements          6.9       33.7       60.8      96.1      119.0      316.5    (33)   50
Subsidy       "        "       "              7.1      16.3       25.1       39.7       58.6      146.8      15    24
Credit        "        "       if            23.2      41.6       26.6       34.7       34.1      160.2      16    26
Total Cost of On-Farm Investment             73.1     191.9      178.2      263.6      274.0      980.8    100
(without *ene)                              (37.1)    (9L.Q    (112.5)   (170.5)   (211.7)   (623.5)             (100)
1/  Base cost, in constant prices of December 1977
2/  See Annex 7, Table 10.                                                                                          D
3/  35X in each of the following two years.                                                                           t M .



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix IV
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistants
1.   Accountant
The applicant should be a member of an internationally recognized
accounting body with at least 5 years experience in a senior position. The
applicant should also be familiar with modern data processing systems.
The main responsibility of the accountant will be to guide and
control accounting work and to train local personnel which will take over
his functions at the end of the project period. His functions would be in
particular:
-    to draw up the annual baLance sheet;
-    to prepare the operations budget and to estimate
liquidity needs;
-    to prepare disbursement claims for the financing
institutions;
-    to set up a data processing system (based on a
micro-computer to be procured) for maintaining
the accounts of some 13,000 participating farm
units;
-    to calculate costs of production and costs of
various services provided by ORM;
-    to select and train local accountants and assis-
tant accountants.
The accountant would be head of the Administrative and Financial Division
and would be directly responsible to the Director of ORM.
Techaical assistance for this position would be required for
4 years.
2.   Agricultural Extension Specialist
Technical assistance for extension is required in order to improve
the transmission of extension work theres to participating farmers; to analyze



ANNEX 5
- 69 -                    Appendix IV
Page 2
the technical, economic and social reasons which retard acceptance of exten-
sion proposals; to give practical training to extension workers; and to or-
ganize campaign activities such as line-sowing and threshing.
Applicants should have a recognized university degree or equiva-
lent professional qualification and at least 5 years experience in agricul-
tural extension work in Africa, and have a good knowledge of rice cultivation
in particular.
Specific functions of the extension specialist are:
-    to prepare with the Production Section of ORM the
annual campaign plan;
-    to propose and initiate demonstration plots;
-    to take part in the setting up and in the control
of applied research experiments;
-    to take part in the identification and trial of
new types of equipment;
-    to explore the reasons for acceptance or refusal
by farmers of recommended cultivation practices
or types of equipment;
-    to ensure the on-the-job training of ORM's exten-
sion personnel;
-    to improve the methods of control of extension work
and of important campaign activities such as har-
vesting and threshing.
The extension specialist would be attached to the Production Section of ORM
but would be responsible directly to the Director.
Technical assistance for this position would be needed for 5 years.
3.   Agricultural Economist
Applicants should have at least 5 years experience in rural areas
of Af ica. They should not have a purely economic orientation but also be
famil ar with methods of social research.  Applicants should have a univer-
sity degree in agricultural economics and be trained in statistical analy-
sis.



70                      ANNEX 5
Appendix IV
Page 3
The agricultural economist's functions would be in particular:
to develop the observation tools of the Evaluation
Unit;
to carry out socio-economDic surveys among the par-
ticipating farmers;
to study the different cultivation techniques pro-
posed by the project and to analyze, in close coop-
eration with the extension services, the economic
results at the farm level;
-    to interpret and control statistical results such
as yield estimates derived from samples;
-    to review annually the campaign results from an
economic point of view.
The agricultural economist would be directly responsible to the Director of
ORM. His services would be needed for 2-3 years.
4.   Workshop Manager
Applicants should be experienced mechanics and should also have
managerial experience at the workshop level. Applicants should be thoroughly
familiar with agricultural machinery.
The functions of the workshop manager include in particular:
-    to ensure the functioning of vehicles and agricultural
machinery;
-    to maintain stationary equipment such as electric
generators, pumps, air conditioners, etc. as well
as buildings;
-    to train maintenance personnel and drivers;
-    to organize fuel supplies and maintenance services
in the field for agricultural machinery engaged in
campaign activities;
-    to order spare parts and l:o control the spare parts
inventory as well as fuel supplies;
-    to control the log-books of vehicle and engine
drivers;



ANNEX 5
- 71 -                    Appendix IV
Page 4
to supply the data required for the computation of
vehicle operating costs and operating performance
of farm machinery.
The workshop manager would be directly responsible to the Director of ORM.
His services would be required for 5 years.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Assistance to the Rural Works Department, Bamako
1.        The Study Bureau of the Rural Works Department of the Ministry of
Rural Development has an autonomous budget. While salaries of technicians
belonging to the civil service are borne by Government, the Bureau is expected
to cover its operating expenditure (auxiliary staff, vehicles, supplies, etc.)
from revenue derived from planning and supervising civil works carried out on
Government account. The Study Bureau's budget over the last few years, by
main categories of revenue and expenditure, is at Table 1. The Study Bureau
is headed by a Malian engineer. It has three Divisions (Works, Buildings,
Topographic Services) of which the most important one, Works, is headed by
a senior French engineer. The Study Bureau also has an outpost at Segou.
Total staff is close to 50 of which half are engineers and the other half
topographic technicians.
2.        The Study Bureau has been steadily expanding its range of activi-
ties and is thereby increasingly substituting expensive foreign consultancy
services. The Study Bureau has been assisted not only by French technical
assistance (5 expatriate engineers) but also by other agencies. It has
received some equipment under the IDA-financed Drought Relief Fund Project
(Credit 443-MLI). Under the same credit, the Study Bureau has been charged
to study and prepare several small irrigation projects to be implemented,
under that Credit, in the 1st, 5th and 6th Regions. The Bureau is also
engaged in supervisory activities for Credits 491, 538, and 277-MLI (see
Table 1).
3.        Under the proposed credit, the Study Bureau would:
-    be provided with additional office space (a second storey
on its present premises) and some equipment;
-    receive funds for travel scholarships which will enable
Malian technicians to study projects in other countries
and to receive additional specialized training;
-    receive funds for the execution of further studies on
irrigation projects.
A budget proposal submitted by the Public Works Department is at Table 2.
4.        The studies proposed have been approved by the Association.  The
Study Bureau will sub-contract studles on the economic and social aspects
of planned projects to the Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER) of the Ministry
of Rural Development.



- 73 _                       ANNEX 6
Table I
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Budget of Study Bureau, Rural Works Department
(1976)
FM Million
Revenue                                                     101.3
A.   Rural Works  (Studies or Supervision)                   62.4
Studies and Supervision for EDF at
Operation Riz Segou and Operation
Riz Sikasso                                         41.0
Studies and Supervision for IDA-
financed livestock project (Credit
538-MLI) and Operation Riz Mopti
(Credit 277-MLI)                                    16.5
Studies financed by FAC                                 4.5
Studies financed by other sources                       0.4
B.   Buildings                                               38.9
Supervision IDA-financed projects
OACV (Credit 491-MLI) and livestock
(Credit 538-MLI)                                    31.8
FAC-financed projects                                    1.2
USAID financed projects                                 4.6
Other sources of finance                                 1.3
Expenditure                                                 100.9
Civil servants                                          -  /a
Other Personnel                                         11.2
Vehicles
-  operating cost                                      34.8
-  depreciation                                         17.4
Supplies                                               20.5
Miscellaneous                                           17.0
Development of Study Bureau Budget 1973-76
1973    FM     57 million
1974    FM      68 million
1975    FM      83 million
1976    FM    101 million
/a   Government Budget



ANNEX 6
74 -                            Table 2
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Assistance to Rural Works Department
Proposed Utilization of Funds
I.    BUILDINGS                                                 FM Million 1/
Extension to Study Bureau Office                             39.0
II.   EQUIPMENT
a)  1 Landrover Stat-ton Wagon                                5.0
5 Landrover Pick Ups                                     20.0
1 Renault R4                                              2.0
27.0
b) Office Furniture, Air Conditioning etc.
for Bamako, Gao, and Kayes Offices                       34.0
c)  Typewriters, drawing and reproduction equipment,etc.  7.0
Subtotal                                 68.0
III.  STUDY TRAVEL
1 Engineer and 1 Tecb.iician for 6 months
to SAED, Senegal                                            5.0
4 Engineers 2 weeks to Niger                                  3.0
2 Engineers for 6 monchs to SOGREAH Study
Bureau, France                                              8.0
5 Engineers 2 weeks to visit rural works in
Upper Volta                                                 2.0
1 Engineer 6 months tr-aining in rural architecture           2.0
1 documentarian 6 months training in France                   2.0
Purchase of documents                                          3.0
Subtotal                                 25.0
IV.   PROJECT STUDIES
1. Kayes:
Survey of water sources                                 25.0
2. Sikasso
Study of proposed Lea plantation (Lobouala)              15.0
Study of rice plains Sikasso North                       27.0
3. Mopti
Study of 50 small *lams in Dogon country                 75.0
Study of 10 "mares"                                      10.0
Continuation of ntidies on the
'a±u:l du 3m" (17th phase)                               74,0
159.0
4. Gao
Pedological, geotechnical and hydraulic
studies of Lac Horo, and study of access road            72.5
5. General study of development priorities
of different flood plains in the 5th and 6th
Region                                                    5.0
6.  Unallocated (for stuidies to be determined)              56.5
Subltotal                             360.0
Totatl                                492.0
1/ In prices of December 1977



AUll 7
75~~~
- 75 -
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Coat - Stnay Table
(in FM tMillion]
Project Yeer 8/                    1978      1979       1980      1981      1982      1978-82       In         Porign      Local        Taxes      1978-82       In
Includ.       CS5                                           Not of         USS
Taxes      Million                                          Taxes       Million
Civil Works
BaEs  Cheta 2/                            -        1,987     2.009      830         -         4z82         90         2,43         869         1,013      3,012         7c
Physical Contingencies  151               -          298       301      124         -          723         1.48          441       130           152        571         1.17
Price Contingencies  /                    -          430       654      252         -        1,336         2.73          815       240           282      1,055         2.15
Total                                     -        2,715     2,964    1,206         _        6,885        14.05        4,199     1,239         1,447      5,438        11.10
Baw v%e Oo                                _-         336       535       458        134       1,463        2.99          907       234           322       1,141        2.33
Price Contingencies                       -           63       151       177         67         458        0.93          284        73           101        357         0.73
Total                                      -         399       686       635        201      1,921         3.92        1,191       307           423      1,498         3.06
Buildiogs
Bass Coeta                                326        397       -         -          -           723        1.49          253       354           116        607         1,24
Physical Contingencies 5%                 i6          20       -         -          -            36        0.07           13        17             6         30         o.o6
Price Contingencies                       31          78       -        _           -           109        0.22           38        53            18         91         0.19
Ttolt                                    373         495       -         -          -           868        1.77          304       424           140        728         1.49
ingi.eering and S.pervision                                                                                                           98           -          239         0,49
Bass Costs                                65          79        66        26          3         239        o.49          141
Price Cootingencies                        5          12        16         8          1          42        0.09           25        17           -           42         0.09
Total                                     70          91        82        34          4         281        o.58          166       115           -          281         0.58
Vehicles and Epuipment
Bese Cost                                279          91       458       140        122       1,090        2.22          850        83           157        933         1.90
Physical Contingencies 5%                  14          5        23         7          6          55        0.11           43         4             8         47         0.10
Price Contingencies                       22          15       1i4        47         53         251        0.51          196        19            36        215         o.44
Total                                     315        111       595       194        181       1,396        2.85        1,089       106           201      1,195         2.44
Adult lit-r--y - Audio Viul Progra
Bane Cost                                  27         23        26        23         30         129        0.26           77        20            32         97         0.20
Physic-l Contingencies 10%                  3          2         3         2          3          13        0.03            8         2             3         10         0.02
Price Contingencies                         2          4         7         8         14          35        0.07           21         5             9         26         0.05
Tot.l                                      32         29        36        33         47         177        o.36          1o6        27            44        133         0.27
nlited Agricltural Rsse rch
Base Cost                                  21         21         21       21         20         i04        0.21           5o        36            18          86        0.18
Phyifcal Cooting-nnioa itY                  2          2          2        2          2          10        0.02            5          3            2           8        0.02
Price Contingencien                         2          3          5        7          9          26        0.05           13         9             4          22        0.04
Total                                      25         26         28       30          31        140        0.29           68        48            24         116        0.24
Incre1s.t.l tStaf
Bne Coot                                   47         48        50        54         56         255        0.52           -        255           -          255         0.52
Price Contingenciso                         2          4         7        10         13          36        0.07           -         36           _           36         0.07
Totol                                      49         52        57        64         69         291        0.59           -        291           -          291         0.59
Incresntal Operoting Cost
13ane Ooet                           59          64        72        82         88         365        0.74          173       129            63        302        0.62
Physicol Contingencies 10%                  6          6         7         8          9          36        0.07           17        13             6         30        o.06
Price  Contingencise                        6         13        22        35         48         124        0.25           59        44            21        103        o.21
Tot            ce                          71         83        101      125        145         525        1.06          249       i86            90        435         o.89
Technical Aseistance
Bass Cost                                 150        190       150       116         81         647        1.33          647        -            -          647         1.33
Price Conting ncies                       1i4         28         42       45         40         169        0.34          169        -            -          169        0.34
Total                                     164        178        192      16i        121         816        1.67          816        -                       816         1.67
On-FPrn lo-ct.ent
Boss Coot                                  73        192        178      264        274         981        2.00          521       460           -          981         2.00
Physinol Contingencies 10%                  7         19         18       26         28          98        0.20           52        46           -           98         0.20
Price Contingencies                         6         31         46       94        126         303        0.62          16i       142           -          303        0.62
Total                                      86        242        242      384         428      1,382        2.82          734       648           -        1,382         2.82
5ubtotl  Mopti 2I Bite Project
Baae Oot                                i,o47      3388      3,566    2,014         808     10,822       22.10        6,562     2,538         1,721      9,100        18.57
Physical Contingencies                     48        352        354      169          48        971        1.98          579       215           177        794         1.62
Price Contingencise                        90        681      i,o64      683         371      2,889        5.89        1,781       638           471      2,419         4.94
Total                                   1,185      4,421      4,983    2,866      1,227      14,682       29.96        8,922     3,391         2,369     12,313        25.13
Assistance to RWD Bka.so
Bass Cost                                 153         129       110       95           5        492        1.00          310       141            41        451         0.92
Physical Contingencies 5%                   8           6         6        5           .         25        0.05           16         7             2         23         0.05
Price Contingencies                        12          21        27       32           2         94        0.19           59        27             8         86         0.17
Total                                     173         156       143      132           7        611        1.25          385       175            51        560         1.14
Total Prject Cost
Bass Cost                               1,200       3,517     3,675    2,109         813     11,314       23.10        6,872     2,679         1,762      9,551        19.49
Physical Contingencies                     56         358       360      174          48        996        2.03          595       222           179        817         1.67
Price Contingencies                       102         702     1,091      715         373      2,983        6.08        i,840       665           479      2,505         5.11
Total                                   1,358       4,577    5s126    2,998        1,234     15,293        31.21       9,307     3,566         2,420     12,873        26.27
1/ June 1 - MBy 31.
8/ In prices of Deceambr 1977.
S/ se. Table 12.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
PRO.JECT COST /1
CIVIL WORKS
(FM Millions)
Foreign       Local
Project Year /2           1978    1979    1980    1981   1982    1978-82   Exchange /5    Cost /5   Taxes /5
A. Mopti I Polders /3
Mopti Nord                              209                                 209
Mopti Sud                               248                                 248
Soufouroulaye                            95       96                        191
Ibetesi                                 51                                    51
Syn-Sarantomo I                          98                                   98
Dia-Tenenkou                           132                                  132
Sofara                                  74                                   74
Subtotal                             907        6                       1,003
B. Other Existing Polders                   -        --
C. New Polders 4/
Saremala                                        757     756               1,513
Ouro-Nema                              856      856                       1,712
Tiroguel                               224      225                         449
Torokoro                                         75       74                149
Subtotal                           1,080   1,913      830               3,823
Total Civil Works                  1,987   2,009      830               4,826     2,943             869      1,013
61%            18%        21%
/1  In prices of Dec. 1977 including taxes.
/2  June 1 - May 31.
/3  See Annex 5, Table 1.                                                                                                         H X
/4  See Annex 5, Table 2.                                                                                                           s
/5  IER, Annex 15, Table 3.
IER, Etude de Factibilite du projet Riz Mopti, 2e phase; hereafter quoted as IER. Annex 15, Table 3.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Cost 1/
Deep Ploughing
(MF Millions)
Project Year 2/                       1978    1979    1980    1981   1982    ].978-82    Foreign         Local   Taxes 5/
Exchange 5/   Cost 5/
A.  Iopti I Polders 3/
10,200 ha 4/                336.0   126.8   183d                646.6
B. Other Existing Polders 3/
Bougoula           2,085 ha                           132.2                       132.2
Syn-Sarantomo II  2,000 ha                            126.8                       126.8
C. New Polders 3/                                                   632  4 82         19T78
Saremala           3,120 lha                                    63.4 134.4        L96o.2
Ouro-Nema          4,105 ha                             8      1.6
Tiroguel           1,050 ha                            66.6                        66.6
Torokoro             525 ha                                     33.3               33-3
_______~~          ~    ~~~~~             _ - -                                             _
Total        23,085 ha.                   336.0  534.8    458.3 134.4       1,463.5    90T         234      322
62%          16X     22%
1/  In prices of December1977, including taxes.
2/  June I - May 31.
3/  See Annex 5, Table 2
4/  llnit price NF 63,4001iOa.
5/  IER, Annex 15, Table 5.



- 78 -
ANNEX 7
Table 4
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Cost - - Buildings
(In FM Million)
2/                                                                                 Foreign 19O    Local 19/ Taxes 190
Project Year 2/                  1978      1979     1980      1981      1982        1978-82      Exchange       Costs
a)  Sheds for Farm Inputs -3
A.  Mopti I Polders
B.  Other Existing Folders    17.6                                                    17.6
C.  New Polders                            38.6                                       38.6
Subtotal                17.6      38.6                                       56.2
b)  Sheds for ORM Equipm nt 4/
A.  Mopti I Polders              51.2                                                 51.2
B.  Other Existing Polders                  6.4                                        6.4
C.  New Polders                            25.6                                       25.6
Subtotal                51.2      32.0                                       83.2
c)  ORM Meehan Workshops 5J               44.0                                        44.0
d)  Paddy Storage -
A.  Mopti I Polders             112.0                                                112.0
B.  Other Existing Polders                40.0                                       40.0
C.  New Polders                            88.0                                       88.0
Subtotal               112.0    128.0                                       240.0
e) Offices, Houses -/
A.  Mopti I Polders 8/          101.6     17.0                                       118.6
B.  Other Existing Folders                  9.9                                        9.9
C.  New Polders                            39.6                                       39.6
D.  Bamako                                 33.4                                       33.4
B.  2 houses Techn. Asst.        44.0                                                 44.0
F.  Training Centers 9/          _         54.0                                       54.0
Subtotal               145.6    153.9                                       299.5
TOTAL BUILDINGS                 326.4    396.5                                       722.9        253           354       116
35%          49%        16Z
1/ In prices of December 1977 including taxes.
2/  June 1 - May 31.                                                   2
3/  See Annex 5, Table 3 . Unit costs are PM 4.0 million for 75m
4/ See Annex 5, Table 3 . Unit Costs are PM 4.0 million for 52.5m2.
5/  See Annex 5, Table 3 . Unit costs are FM 60,000/m2.
6/  See Annex 5, Table 3 . Unit costs are PM 8.0 million for 150m2 or FM 53.333/zk2.
7/  See Annex 5, Table 3 . Unit costs are FM 9.9 million for a polder chief's house, FM 2.6m for an office.
8/ Including one house for director of seed farm at FM 17.0 million.
9/  See Annex 5, Table 3.  Unit costs are FM 60,000/m2,
10/  IER Annex 15, Table 3.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
1/
Project Cost
Engineering and Supervision
(in FM Millions)
2/
Project Year        1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    1978-82.         Foreign         Local
_______      gxchange 3/    Cost  3/    Taxes
Cost Items
Project Studies                           4      5       5      -       -         14
Equipment                                28      -       4      -       -         32
Technical Assistance                     25     50      33      11      -        119
Local Personnel                           2      8       8      5       1         24
Operating Costs                           6     16      16     10       2         50
Total                                    65     79      66     26       3       239           141             98
59             41
1/ In prices of December 1977; since engineering and supervision is carried out by a Government agency, costs have
been calculated net of taxes only.
2/ June 1 - May 31.
3/ Communication from Rural Works Department, Bamako.
{D X
in-4



rm-g r ~~~
Coat    1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1978-82    Lbe              Coat §/         as 5/
a) V tooIde
trootor 0 trnolar 2/
Cost                           4  99                       10        20                                (96%)           (38)         (18)
ft.            4.919                        1~~~~~~~~9.9  99.8            149.7         144              5 
A.toaoblbod 3/
_A.t.-bilo                    ~~~~3                3         0                    0
Coot                          1.85       5.6                5.6       3.7                 184 9         9(13) (254)
C. t                         22.0                         710.0)                         llOwo        (6288           (13%)        (25%)
2                              2
Coat                        450 o90.0                                                     90.0         86             (3 
C.t  45.0                                                                  ~~~~~      ~     ~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~(96%)  (3%)  (1
Subtntol                           5.6               255.5    103.5                 364.6        (10             25           33
(848)           (7)          (96)
b)  Fo  M.htoba.
S-roshers 4/
M0.                                                       2a                    91        42
Coot                          5.10                         03.71               107.1    2a14.2
N%.                                                        40        99         35       17
Cost                          0.33                         13.2      L5            6 11.6  J7.5
S.bt&ol                                               120.3      32.7     1U8.7      221-7         261              8           (3
(96%)           (3%)         (19)
c) 08nMn iotsnoTo
2 Dpr  eqtdppd   tb
doter .d  lor (So  1)        43.2       86.4                                              86.4
2 Djo trobl 63               28.8       57.6                                              57.6
1 dter T-ok 10,000 1         246        26.5                                              24.5
1 Motor gflder 120 HP        47.5       47.5                                              47.5
1 vibr-tiqs toUir             5.7        5.7                                               5-7
(500-6600 kg)
2 NMobile Di.  T_prt          1.5        3.0                                               3.0
W0osloe                                 21.6                                              21.6
Spre pat 105                            27.1                                              27.1
3obtotal                          273.4                                             273.4        169              36           68
(62%)          (13%)        (7%)
d) Ol W-rkelo: oitr_nt
2 259VA  eretore              7.6                          15.2                           15.2
2 12KV0 G-toro                5.6                          11.2                           11.2
IQocelloss 1lqo1tt
-       Wr k a pbobe                            48.0                                      48.0
-  oT..oko. a  Sofora                                      36.0                            60
lzre bopo
Obatota1                                   48.0       62.4                          110.4         66              11           33
(60%)          (10%)        (30%)
Forol~o  for Ho.tee     1.0
t. Nkptl I Bolders                                 6.0        6.0                           12.0
B. Otber Esttzg Poldere                                       1.7                            1.0
. _ Ntad 2partre                                                                    .0 2.0   1.0
S.  0.6
F. Tra5i  leete                                    9:3                                       9055
cSrto.   rdtire                 0.50
A. Izt1 I b)so                                     0.5                                        0.5
B. Otbr Rsttrg Folders                                        0.5                             0,5
C.  _  Pedere                                                           1.0        1.0        2.0
D. (2U   sadater-                                  2.5                                        2.5
E. B_ko                                            O.S                                        0.5
Office Ba3i-t                   0.30
A.  optt I Folders                                 0.1        1.8                             3.9
B. Otle Mbt0rS FOlde                                          0.3                             0.3
C. v.. 861d0.                                                           0.6         3.6       1.2
D. (MN  Bdqart rs10.3  /   10.03 2/                                                          20.3
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0. It9. 3trT c2 ntr /17
Oehtot.t                   43.2       r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  rr  y:s~~~~3.  roOD       222
(605)        (WV5)           (305)
TorAL                                 279.0   91.2       457.8    139.8       122.3   1,090.1        850             83           3157
88     8%            14%
1/In prlit  fr Dupbr 1977 ineludi tX.-
Tp Mr 135. Adtio ol r                  Mprt1s a  clcltd as ofotion dEes td proMoetion (40S ootil 1982/83, 45% th aftwr). 7iPort eypcitF
per trsotor - trilir 5t/daj Ce? 100 dga.  Ottd-by Is 10% of opettig oqipat.  Initial stoke. it 31 trtw-tor ler-. R%pl.oeM   itwot
n.m at -oote.
Ty" klnot 16 f- th- bsd. of th- 4 ft. poodro cod thG head of Moeol. poldor: 3  e               osa of the on  tno  for frta.
e  lips Girard. AdUitionl   q rint   re  fosotitos of aer d predec,oon (ss footots 2). TI-rsh-r  cegett p. osit is 360 toot p
c   Th.  initiol   trok is 50 t        Arrs.  6105  tacd-tp for rsptra  to... boo bas  inclbdd.
5/Of  knit -Gtots. hoqdalrnts ea f ot tlo  of Iol-sot ot. (Sea -In- 8, T21. 3). The . o7at                                  d i per    der to a-sfd to
tsa fre  40 hafyoer to 60 ba/Wyer ao frnas bo ost           sopserisad 8pprtore. Tbh  taed-by io 07 SS fsor asadw a- repot  inoidd           I
1-* 
6   Otctber 1976 pris-t  or_od br 9%,
Btd on 08 Feebdlity Stodf tet itb  de.e    r re ion  of fwreit     reql t..
B/  a      , *e 16, Tlaia T.
21  IWaIo.a- 5 eNtea.  nCsa fs- Wsoseotl    betsea  poSie, M, MY 10.0su               .
Dt*    yr for bmiig tilts of project prtieipasta in1                 stt-op e-d tr    r o0ote.
'  bwe            oriteriltera. e nt for dostrotio   ed prftti.e.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
PROJECT COST /1
Adult Literacy Campaign and Audio-Visual Program
(in MF Millions)
Foreign         Local
Project Year  /2                          1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1978-82    Exchange /6    Cost /6    Taxes /6
A.  Adult Literacy Campaign /3
Personnel                              1.6      3.9     5.1      5.7     9.6      25.9
Equipment                              7.0      3.4     4.1      3.9     5.7      24.1
Oper. Cost                             2.9      3.3     3.7      4.1     5.8      19.8
DNAFLA Support                          -       3.2     3.5      4.0     4.0      14.7
Subtotal                           11.5    13.8    16.4    17.7    25.1        84.5
B. Audio-Visual Program
Equipment/4                           10.0      4.7     4.7       -       -       19.4
Operating Cost/5                       5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0      25.0
Subtotal                           15.0     9.7      9.7      5.0     5.0      44.4
TOTAL                              26.5    23.5    26.1    22.7    30.1    128.9             77            20           32
60%           152          25%
/1  In prices of December 1977.
/2  June 1 - May 31.
/3  See Annex 5, Appendix 1, Table 1.
/4  One Landrover, one 4 KVA generator, four small generators, photographic and reproduction material, tape recorders, screens.
/5  Only for the central unit at ORM; operating costs in the field are included in extension service costs.
/6  See IER, Annex 15, Table 24.



-82-
MALI                                                   ADJRr 7
Tabl 8
MOPT) II RICE PROJECT
PROJECT COST V
ORM Staff and Technical Assistance
(FM Million)
Staff    Unit    1978   IS79    1980   198l    1982              Total      Foreign   Loael    Taxes
1977    Cost                                                  1978-1982   Exchange  Cost
_   FM !0OO      __ __                                                                 _
A. OEM Staff
Existing Staff ORM
No.                            318
Cost (tM miltion) ?/           155.0
Additional Staff /
Polder Chiefs           No.    10                                  3      5        5
Cost            732                       2.2    3.7      3.7
Assistant Polder Chief No.       1                4      5         7      9        9
Cost            672      2.7   3.4        4.7    6.1      6.1
Moniteurs               No.    28                                  2      7       11
Cost            479                       1.0    3.4      5.3
Encadreurs              No.   116                                  7     28       44
Coat            220                       1.5    6.2      9.7
Ass. Accountants        No.    10                                  3      5        5
Cost            224                       0.7    1.1      1.1
Tally-men               No.    10                                  3      5        5
Cost            100                       0.3    0.5      0.5
Sub-total               No.   170                 4      5        25     59       79
Cost                     2.7   3.4       10.4   20.8    26.3
Tractor Drivers         No.    33                 1      6       14      27       34
Cost             85       0.1   0.5       1.2    2.3      2.9
Workshop Mechanics      No.      8                       4         4      4        4
Cost            199             0,8       0,8    0.8      0.8
Total Add. Staff        No.                       5    1S        43      90      117
(cumulative)           Cost                      2.8   4.7      12.4   24.1    30.1
Total ORM Staff         No.                      294   304      332    279       406
Cost                   157.8 159.7    167.4  178.9   185.0              848.8
Participation of
Project in ORM
Staff Cost (30%) 4/                             47.3  47.9      50.2   53.7    55.5             254.6                255
100%
Unit Cost
FM Million
B. Techn. Assistance
Staff                            2                4      4        4       3        2
34.27    137.1 137.1    137.1  102.8    68.5              582.6
Visiting Consultants                             8.9   8.9       8.9    8.9       8.9            44.5
Documentation and
Miscellaneous                                    4.0   4.0       4.0    4.0       4.0            20.0
Total                                          150.0 150.0    150.0  115.7    81.4              647.1     647
1008
1/ In prices of Dec. 1977.
2/ Budget 1977.
3/  It has been assumed that all staff except the categories listed here          will remain constant.  Each polder will have
a polder chief, an assistant accountant and a tally-man, and polders over 1,000 ha an assistant polder chief as wil.
There will he one Encadreur for 240 ha, and one Moniteur for 4 Encadreurs, Part of the field staff of the new poldera
can be taken fron existing field staff which is in excess of the ratios given in this footnote. Additional tractor
driver requirements have been calculated as a function of the increase in tractor numbers which in turn is a function
of the increase in marketed production.
4/ The participation of the project has been based on th-e ratio: SI(W) - SA(WO) where SA(W) is the own area at full
development with the project (38,303 ha), and SA(WO) the sown areaSiN91ll development withouit the project (26,759 ha).
See Amex 9, Table 4.



_ 83 -
MAlI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
project Cost 1/
ORM Operating Costs
(FM Million)
Foreign      Local
1977          1978     1979      1980      1981      1982          1978-82      Exchange    Cost    Taxes
ORM Operating Costs
Budget 1977                    210.7
Less cost items that
are a function of marketed
production 2/                     72.5
Less cost items that
are a function of
developed area 3/                 37.0
Less debt service                 46.0
Residual Operating 4/
Costs of ORM                      55.2          58.0       60.9    63.9       67.1      70.5            320.4        60% 8/      20% 81  20% 8/
Plus operating cost of
ORM vehicles and farm
equipment _/                                     76.8      87.1   104.9    129.1    133.0               530.9        53%         27%      20%
Plus cost of civil
works maintenance v/                            62.0       65.9    72.2       77.6     87.9             365.6        28%         61X      11%
Annual ORM Operating
Cost                                           196,8      213.9   241.0    273.8    291.4            1,216.9        576        430      210
Participation of the
Project in ORM
Operating Costs 7/                              59.0       64 2    72.3       82.1     87.4             365 0       173        129       63
(48)        (35)    (17)
Applted research uronrain                       20,8       20.8    20.8      20.8      20.8            104.0        50           36      18
___                          (48~~~~~~~~A)  3)      7
Participation of Project in
Op. Cost incl. Applied
Research Progra                                 79.8       85.0    93.1    102.9    108.2              469.0       223         165       81
(48)       (35)    (17)
1/  In prices of December 1977 including taxes
2/  Costs of fuel, maintenance, insurance and taxes for vehicles and farm equipment. and "frais de campegne".
3/  rncludes also expenditure for "carres de rendement" since this item is also related to area rather then production.
4/  Increase of 5% p.a. in real terms assumed until 1982, thereafter constant
5/  The 1977 level of FM 7,500 per ton of marketed production reflects the underutilization of equipment and is orojected
to decrease by FM 500/t annually until it becomes FM 5,000/t in 1982/83
6/  At a rate of FM 3,200/ha/year, starting * years after conQletion of polder   Plua FM 150/ha for "carres de rende ents".
7/ 30%. fta *las 8, footote 4s
8/ Mis8L a'e Oettte.



- 84 -                                                    ANNEX 7
Table 10
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Cost /1
On-Farm Investment
(I'M Million)
Unit
Cost                                               Total   Foreign Local
M_    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982   1978-82 Exchange  Cost    Taxes
A. At Cost Prices
Plow  (Type 32)               NO.                     2;6      771     5L5      715      479    2,746
N  nlllon    76,290   21.1    58,8    30.5    54.5    36.5    209.4   172    37    -
Cultivators                   No.                      '.5      63     128      258      375       879
MF million    90,765    5.0       5.7    11.6    23.4    34.0        79.7    48    32    -
Harrows                       No.                       -        -       97      34       68       199
M1  million    51,915    -         -       5.0      1.8      3.5     10.3      6      4    -
Carts                         No.                       -       69     135      180      114       498
MF million    77,210    -         5.3    10.4    13.9        8.8     38.4    23    15    -
Fertilizer (urea)             t                        73     144      310      508      851    1,887
MF million   151,390/2 11.1    21.8    47.0    76.9   128.9    285.7   271    15    -
Oxen (Pair)                   No.                     276      771     505      715      479    2,746       -            -
MF million   130,140   35.9   100.3    65.7    93.1    62.3    357.3    -    357    -
Total A                   MF million                73.1   191.9   178.2   263.6   274,0    980.8
(Rounded)                                        (73)   (192)   (178)-  (264)   (274)    (981)    523   461    -
53%   47%       0%
B.  At Subsidized SCAER Selling Prices
Subsidy
Plows (Type B2)               No.                     27S      771     505      715      479    2,746
MF million    67,130   18.5    51.8    33.9    48.0    32.2    184.4                         25
Cultivators                   No.                      55       63     128      258 *   375        879
MF million    83,000    L.6       5.2    10.6    21.4    31.1        72.9                      7
Harrows                       No.                       -        -       97      34       68       199
MF million    45,700    -         -        4.4      1.6      3.1      9.1                      1
Carts                         No.                       -       69     135      180      114       498
MY million    70,980    -         4.9      9.6    12.8       8.1      35.4                     3
Fertilizer (urea)             f                        72      138     298      485      810    1,803
MF million    97,000    7.0    13.4    28.9    47.0    78.6    174.9                        111
Oxen (Pair)                   No.                     276      771      505     715      479    2,746
MF million   130,140   35.9   100.3    65.7    93.1    62.3    357.3
Total B                   MF million                66.0   175.6   153.1   223.9   215.4    834.0
(Rounded)                                         (66)   (176)   (153)   (224)   (215)    (834)                       147
/ In prices of December1977.
/2 Fertilizer prices for 1978-1982 are based on World Banik projections (Report No. 814/76, Annex 4, page 17).



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Cost l/
Assistance To Study Bureau of Rural Works Department
(FM Million)
Foreign      Local
Project Year 2/            1978      1979      1980     1981      1982           1978-82      Exclange    Costs       Taxes 7/
a)  Building 3/                     39         _        -         -         -              39            14         19           6
b) Equipment and
Documents 4/                  19        34       15        -         -              68             41          7         20
c)  Study Travel 5/                  5         5         5        5         5              25             25          -         -
d)  Studies 6/                      90        90        90       90         -             360            230        115         15
Total                      153.     129       110       95         5             492            310        141         41
63%        29%         8%                 O
I.
1/ In prices of December1977.
2/  June 1 - May 31.
3/ Second floor on Study Bureau (200 m2)
4/ Survey and reproduction equipment, maps etc.
5/  For short-term visits to projects, construction sites and institutions in other countries.
6/  For irrigation projects.  Part of these studies are to be subcontracted, for economic studies, to IER.
7/ See IER, Annex 15, Tables 4 and 27: and Annex 16, Table 7.
m1
D -



ANNEX 7
: 86 -                            Table 12
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Cost
Price Conitingency Factors 1/
1978      1979       1980       1981      1982
a) Equipment, vehicles, adult
literacy and audio-visual;
on-farm investment; assistance
to Rural Works Dept., engineering
and supervision                        1.075     1.156      1.236      1.323     1.416
b) Civil works, buildings, deep
ploughing, technical assistance,       1.090      1.188      1.283     1.386      1.497
operating expenses
c)  Local Staff 2/                         1.045      1.092      1.135     1.180      1.227
1/ Revised Guidelines on Expected Price Increases (Price contingencies), CPS memo
(W.C. Baum). of Jan. 31, 1977. Annual rates of increase are as follows (in %):
a)                b)                c)
1978                     7.5               9.0               4.5
1979                     7.5               9.0               4.5
1980                     7.0               8.0               4.0
1981                     7.0               8.0               4.0
1982                     7.0               8.0               4.0
2/ Half the rate projected for operat:Lng expenses since Mali is expected to continue
its policy of minimal increases in Government salaries in view of the difficult
budgetary situation.



_ 87 -
ANNEX 8
MALI                                            Table 1
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Financing Plan
Total Cost _11
MF           US$        IDA      FAC         ADF       Govt.      Farmers
Million      Million
Civil Works
IDA and FAC                  2,695         5.50        4.95       0.55        -         -          -
ADF                          2,205         4.50          -         -         4.50        -         -
Deep Ploughin8
IDA and FAC                    735         1.50        1.35      0.15        -          -          -
ADF                            490         1.00         -          -         1.00       -          -
Buildings                        686         1.40        1.26       0.14        -          -         -
Engineering+ Supervision         245         0.50        0.50        -          -          -         -
Vehicles and Equipment         1,078         2.20        1.98       0.22        -          -          -
Adult Lit+ Audiovisual           122         0.25         -         0.25        -          -          -
Applied Agrc. Research            98         0.20         -         0.20        -          -          -
Increm. Staff + Oper.
Costs                          686         1.40        0.70        -          -        0.70        -
Technical Assistance             686         1.40        1.26       0.14        -          -         -
On-Farm Investment
Farmers                        950         1.94         -          -          -         -         1.94
Govt. Input Subsidies          212         0.43         -          _          _        0.43        -
Agricultural Credit            220         0.45        0.45        -          _          _         _
Subtotal Mopti II Rice        11,108        22.67         -          -          -         -          -
Assistance RWD                   490         1.00        0.90       0.10        -          -         -
Total                         11,598        23.67       13.35       1.75       5.50      1.13       1.94
Unallocated                    1,275         2.60        1.65       0.25       0.50      0.20        -
Total Project Cost net
of Taxes                    12,873        26.27       15.00       2.00      6.00 2.J  1.33        1.94
%                                                       57        8          23         5          7
Taxes                          2,420         4.94         -          -          -        4.94        -
Total Project Cost            15,293        31.21       15.00       2.00      6.00       6.27       1.94
including Taxes
%                                                       48        6          19         20         6
1/   Total cost net of taxes.Except for ofamivsen,profterceotneces has been listed
under unallocated.
US$ 6.00 million = Units of Account 5.45 millions.
N.B- Percentage figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding.



88 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year                                     Disbursements
and Semester                                          (US$'000)
FY79
1st Semester                                              400
2nd Semester                                            1,200
FY80
1st Semester                                            2,600
2nd Semester                                            4,400
FY81
1st Semester                                            6,500
2nd Semester                                            8,700
FY82
1st Semester                                           10,800
2nd Semester                                           12,700
FY83
1st Semester                                           14,000
2nd Semester                                           14,500
FY84
1st Semester                                           15,000



- 89-                       ANNEX 9
Page I
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Cultivated Areas, Yields, Production
1.        The assumptions underlying the projections with and without the
project (Tables 1 and 2) are explained below with respect to cultivated areas
and yields.
Cultivable Area
2.        Four new polders (Ouro-Nema, Saremala, Tiroguel and Torokoro) would
be developed. Without the project, these four areas would be under tradi-
tional rice-growing with uncontrolled flooding (40% of the area cultivable
with the project).
3.        The investments scheduled for the Mopti I polders (See Annex 5,
Table 1 and 3) will allow full development of the 26,200 ha that have been
retained as cultivable with a 95% flooding probability. Without these invest-
ments, the sown area in the Mopti I polders would only reach about 19,300 has
as a consequence of infestation of certain polders with wild rice, the lack of
deep ploughing in some areas and the deficient flooding and drainage conditions
in parts of some polders.
4.        As a consequence of the deep ploughing and the provision of sheds
and stores in the existing polders of Bougoula and Syn-Sarantomo II, these
polders will be fully developed under the project. Without these invest-
ments, Bougoula and Syn-Sarantomo II would show lower yields.
5.        Areas sown would be 85% of the attributed area in the first year of
cultivation and gradually rise to 98% of attributed area. Total cultivated
area would ultimately be 38,300 ha with the project and 26,759 ha without the
project, including the areas remaining under traditional cultivation.
Yields
6.        Yields in traditional rice-growing with uncontrolled flooding are
about 700 kg of paddy per ha. Inside the polders, i.e. under conditions of
controlled inundation, yields of 1,100 kg/ha can be obtained with traditional
cultivation methods (characterized mainly use of glaberrima varieties, super-
ficial ploughing, no harrowing, broadcast sowing and little, if any, weeding).
Yields rise to 1,400 kg/ha under regular flooding conditions when sativa rice
varieties are used and farmers observe some elementary instructions such as
sowing at the optimum time and better land preparation through harrowing or a
repeat ploughing after the end-of-season ploughing. The introduction of line-
sowing and thorough weeding, preferably by ox-drawn cultivation but also by



ANNEX 9
-90-               ~~~Page  2
hand, will raise yields to 1,900 kg/ha according to IRAT research carried out
at the Ibetemi research station. Finally, application of 100 kg/ha of urea
allows average yields of about 2,500 kg/ha, again according to IRAT findings
at Ibetemi. Fertilizer use will be recommended only to farmers who have
assimilated the preceding steps, in particular line-sowing and thorough
weeding.
7.        The different stages may be summarized as follows:
-    Stage 0 (traditional varieties; uncontrolled flooding):
700 kg/ha
-    Stage I (traditional varieties; controlled flooding):
1,100 kg/ha
-    Stage 2 (Sativa varieties; improved land preparation):
1,400 kg/ha
-    Stage 3 (Stage 2 plus line-sowing, weeding):  1,900 kg/ha
-    Stage 4 (Stage 3 plus fertilizer use):  2,500 kg/ha
For input coefficients of these different stages see Annex 11.
8.        Table 3 shows the anticipated progress of cultivation techniques
over the project period. The shares of the area at Stage 2 will first
increase and then gradually decrease as more farmers adopt Stage 3. Likewise
the area at Stage 3 will first increase and temporarily decrease as more
farmers make the transition to Stage 4. Experience with the Mopti I project
has shown that most farmers entering the project immediately change to Sativa
varieties and thereby are half way between Stage 1 and 2; those who observe
recommended land preparation practices have reached Stage 2. Stage I has
therefore been omitted in Table 3. On the other hand, it is expected that
a sizeable proportion of farmers (25%) will not progress beyond Stage 2.
9.        Yields with the project are the average of yields associated with
the different stages of cultivation techniques (para 7) weighted with the
shares shown in Table 3.
10.       Without the project, yields will be those of Stage 0 for the areas
of the planned new polders. In the polders developed under the Mopti I proj-
ect as well as in the Bougoula and Syn-Sarantomo II polders, yields would
continue to rise due to the efforts of ORM extension services, but to vary-
ing degrees according to hydrological conditions in individual polders.
While some would reach the same level of productivity as with the project,
others would level off at 1,600-1,700 kg/ha while Ibetemi, where flooding
conditions are very precarious, would stagnate at 1,200 kg/ha. The overall
average for the Mopti I polders would still be 1,780 kg/ha if the project
were not carried out (Table 2).



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Development of Area (ha), Yield (t/ha) and Production (t) - With Prolect
Project Year                  1/        0           1          2          3           4          5          (6)        (7)         (8)        (9)         (10)        (11)
Year                    1976       1977       1978        1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985        1986        1987       1988
A.  Mopti I (Credit 277-MLI)
Attributed Area            21.3       21.5        21.7       22.6       24.6        26.2       26.2        26.2       26.2        26.2        26.2       26.2        26.2
Sown Area 2/               18.2       18.3        18.5       20.8       23.4        25.7       25.7        25.7       25.7        25.7        25.7       25.7        25.7
Yield 3/                    1.39       1.50        1.56       1.61        1.68       1.80       1.86        1.91       2.00        2.00        2.00       2.00        2.00
Production                 25.4       27.5        28.8       33.5       39.3        46.2       47.8        49.0       51.4        51.4       51.4        51.4        51.4
B.  Other existing Polders  /
Attributed Area                                                           2.0        4.1        4.1         4.1        4.1         4.1         4.1        4.1         4.1
Sown Area                                                                 1.7        3.7        3.8         3.9        4.0         4.0        4.0         4.0         4.0
Yield                                                                     1.48       1.56       1.61        1.68       1.80        1.86        1.91       2.00        2.00
Production                                                                2.5        5.7        6.1         6.5        7.2         7.4         7.6        8.0         8.0
C.  New Polders
1.  Saremala and Torokoro
Attributed Area                                                       1.5         2.6        3.7         3.7        3.7         3.7         3.7        3.7         3.7
Sown Area                                                             1.3         2.4        3.4         3.6        3.6         3.6        3.6         3.6         3.6
Yield                                                                 1.48        1.56       1.61        1.68       1.80        1.86        1.91       2.00        2.00
Production                                                            1.9         3.7        5.4         5.8        6.4         6.6        6.8         7.1         7.1
6/
2.   ouro.Nema and Tiroguel
Attributed Area                                                                   2.4        5.2         5.2        5.2         5.2         5.2        5.2         5.2
Sown Area                                                                         2.0        4.6         4.7        4.9         5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0
Yield                                                                             1.48       1.56        1.61       1.68        1.80        1.86       1.91        2.00
Production                                                                        3.0        7.2         7.6        8.2         9.1         9.4        9.6        10,1
TOTAL PROJECT (A+B+C)
Attributed Area                                21.7       22.6       28.1        35.3       39.2        39.1       39.2        39.1   -   39.1        39.1        39.1
Sown Area                                      18.5       20.8       26.4        33.8       37.5        37.8       38.2        38.3        38.3       38.3        36.3
Production                                     28.8       33.5       43.7        58.6       66.5        69.0       73.2        74.5        75.2       76.1        76.6
Average Yield                                   1.56       1.61       1.66        1.73       1.77        1.83       1.92        1.95        1.96       1.99        2.00
it Agricultural year 1976177.
2/  Sown area in percent of attributed area is assumed to develop as follows:  Year 0-85%; Year I - 852 Year 2 - 92%; Year 3 - 95%; Year 4 and later - 98%. Polders
listed under B and C follow the same sequence, starting with the percentage of Year 0.
J/  Per hectare of sown area.
j/   Bou-oula (2,085 ha) and Syn-Sarantomo II (2,000 ha).
5/   3;M21iha (S) and 525 ha (T) respectively.
6I   4,105 ha (O-N) and 1,050 ha (T) respectively.                                                                                                                                                  - '



MALI
MDPTI II RICE PROJECT
Dgvelopment of Area (hectares). Yield (t/ha), and Production (tons) - without Project
1976 j/     1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987      1988
Mopti I Polders
Sown Area 2/              18.2        18,3      18 5     18 9      19.1     19.2     19.3      19.3     19.3      19 3     19.3      19.3     19.3
Yield 2/                '  1.39        1.50      1.56     1.58      1.66     1.72     1.76      1.76     1.77      1.77     1.78      1.78     1.78
Production 2/             25.4        27.5      28.8     30.0      31.7     33.2     33.9      34.0     34.1      34 2     34 3      34 3     34 3
Other Existinz Polders
Sown Area 2/                                                        3.5      3.7      3.8       3.9      3.9       3 9      3.9       3 9      3 9
Yield 2/ 37                                                         1.10     1.15     1.20      1 25     1.30      1.40     1.45      1.50     1.50
Production 2/                                                       3.8      4.2      4.5       4.9      5.1       5.5       5 7      5.9       5.9
New Polders
Sown Area 4/                                              2.1       3.5      3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5      3.5
Yield 5/                                                  0.70      0.70     0.70     0.70      0.70     0.70      0.70      0.70     0.70     0.70
Production                                                1.4 6/   2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5
Total
Sown Area                 18.2        18.3      18.5     20.9     26.1      26.4     26.6      26.7     26.8      26.8      26.8     26.8     26.8
Yield                      1.39         1.50     1.56     1.49      1.45     1.51      1.54     1.55     1.56      1.58      1.59     1.60      1.60
Production                25.4        27.5      28.8     31.4      38.0     39.7     40.9      41.4     41.7      42.2      42.5     42.7      42.7
1/ Agricultural Year 1976/77.
2/  Sown areas and yields have been projected in detail for individual polders.  Results have been aggregated and rounded.
3/ Yield development adjusted downwards because of lack of deep ploughing.                             
4/  407 of area cultivable after development.
5/  Yield in traditional cultivation outside the volders a.
6/  Traditional production foregone because of civil works in Ouronema and Tiroguel poldersa . 
N.B. Figures may not add up to totals due to rounding.



MALI
EIPTI II RICE PROJICT
Adoption Ratea of Cultivation T eh1±i4uea
(with the project)
Year
1             2           3                 4                5               6               7               8
Stage 2 (1400 kx/a)
% of area                                                  72             67            59                43              42               36            25                25
area  (ha)                                                12,656          13,937        15,561          14,504          15,790          13,595         9,156             9,193
Stage 3 (1900 kg/ha)
% of area                                                  24             27            28                39              29               32          37.5              37.5
area (ha)                                                  4,218           5,616         7,385          13,154          10,853           12,084       14,496            14,555
Stage 4 (2500 kg/ha)
% of area                                                  4               6            13                18              29               32          37.5              37.5
area (ha)                                                  703             1,248         3,429           6,071          10,853           12,084       14,496            14,555
Total Area (ha)                                           12,577          20,801        26,375          33,729          37,426           37,763       38,148            38,303
Average yield (t/ha)                                       1.56             1.61         1.68             1.80            1.86             1.91          2.00             2.00



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Cultivated Areas and Paddy Production with and without the Project
1978 1'   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Cultivated Area (1,000 ha)
With the project                  18.5       20.8   26.4   33.7   37.4   37.8   38.1   38.3   38.3   38.3   38.3
Without the project               18.5       20.8   26.1   26.4   26.6   26.7   26.8   26.8   26.8   26.8   26.8
Incremental area                      0         0    0.3    7.3   10.8   11.1   11.3   11.5   11.5   11.5   11.5
in % of area with
the project                           0         0    1.1   21.7   28.9   29.4   29.7   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0
Paddy Production (1,000 t)
With the project                  28.8       33.5   43.7   58.6   66.4   69.0   73.2   74.5   75.2   76.1   76.6
Without  the project              28.8       31.4   38.0   39.7   40.9   41.4   41.7   42.2   42.5   42.7   42.7
Incremental production               0        2.1    5.7   18.9   25.5   27.6   31.5   32.3   32.7   33.4   33.9               1
in % of production
with the project                      0       6.3   13.0   32.2   38.4   40.0   43.0   43.3   43.5   43.9   44.2
1/ Agricultural year 1978/79
g x
(D  f



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Market Prospects for Malian Rice
Domestic Demand
1.        Government, in its current Five Year Plan, anticipates a very steep
increase in domestic rice consumption from the present level of 20 kg per
capita to 48 kg in 1983 and 79 kg in 1990. Such a per capita increase (about
8% annually) is not compatible with realistic estimates of future real growth
and with empirical findings on income elasticity of demand. Assuming a 2%
annual increase in real income per head and an income elasticity of demand
of 1.0 per capita consumption would reach only 25 kg in 1985/86. This increase
would be in line with West African experiences over the last decade: it would
still be considerably higher than current FAO estimates. Total paddy require-
ments including seed and losses would rise by 125,000 tons over the decade
1975/76 - 1985/86 (Table 1).
2.        Incremental production from ongoing projects (without the proposed
project) has been projected in Table 2. The projection includes the Office
du Niger (where production is assumed to remain stagnant in the absence of
further investment), the Operation Riz Segou (including a 5,000 ha extension
approved by EDF), the first Mopti Rice Project (according to the "without
the project" projection in this report, Annex 9, Table 2), Operation Riz
Sikasso according to projections in the Mali-Sud Appraisal Report (No.
1171-MLI, Table 7.8), some minor schemes and traditional production as
indicated in the footnotes of Annex 10, Table 2.
3.        Comparison of demand and supply projections with and without the
project (Table 3) show that without the project Mali would remain self-suf-
ficient, in years of normal rainfall, until about 1982 and produce even
small surpluses. With the project, this surplus situation would extend
until about 1985. In assessing the significance of this surplus, several
factors must be taken into account, notably
-    the weak statistical basis on which projections are based
(population growth rate, income elasticity of demand, total
production in base year);
-    the considerable year to year fluctuations in output attribu-
table to hazardous weather conditions (Annex 1, Table 1); and
-    uncertainties surrounding the increase in production from
on-going projects.



- 96 -                   ANNEX 10
Page 2
While deviations from the projectecL trend may be upwards as well as down-
wards, shortfalls are regarded as more serious by Government in view of
the multiple disruptions they cause in the national economy. In years
when a rice surplus actually materializes, as in 1976/77, it has to be
exported.
Export Prospects
4.        Mali would be most competitive in neighboring Sahelian countries
because prices of imports from overseas are high (due to transport costs
from the coast). However, consumption and import requirements of these
countries are low. Mali occasionally sells minor quantities to Upper Volta
or Niger and may continue to do so.
5.        The main regional market is Senegal which has a deficit of not less
than 150,000 tons annually. However, Senegal consumes mainly brokens which
can be obtained on the world market at half price of standard quality (5%
brokens) and still for 30% less than the price Malian rice (riz marchand,
25-35% brokens) would fetch on the world market. Since Senegalese consumers
are not prepared to pay a premium for higher quality rice, Mali would have
to sell its surplus at the price of brokens - which would leave a net return
well below the producer price (Table 4a).
6.        Some coastal countries have, over the last few years, made vast
strides towards self-sufficiency but some of them, in particular the Ivory
Coast, are projected to remain structural deficit countries. While at present
world market prices Mali is not competitive in this market, the rising trend
of world market prices (in real terms) should permit Mali to export occasional
surpluses at a profit by the time the incremental capacity of the project
comes on stream (Table 4a).



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Estimate of Domestic Paddy Requirements in Mali, 1970/71 - 1985/86
Year 1/               1970/i         1974/75       1975/76       1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     1979/80     1980/81     1981/82     1982/83     1983/84      _984/85     1985/86
Population 2/ (1000)        5,260          5,845         6,001         6,163       6,329       6,500       6,676       6,856       7,041       7,231       7,426        7,627       7,833
Per Capita
Consumption (kg) 3/            20.3 4/        2003  /       20.3 5/       20.71       21.12       21.54       21.98       22.42       22.87       23-33       23.80        24.28       24.77
Total Consumption
of Rice (1OOOt)               106.8          118.6         121.8         127.6       133.7       140.0       146.7       153.7       161.0       168.7       176.7        185.2       194.0
Paddy Equivalent 6/           164.3          182.4         187.3         196.3       205.7       215.4       225.7       236.5       247.7       259.4        271.8       284.9       298.4
Seed Requirements 7/           20.0           21.0          23.0          23.5        24.0        24.5        25.0        25.0        25.0        25.0         25.0        25.0        25.0
Total Paddy
Required (lOOOt)
(incl. 10% losses) 8/      205            226           234           244          255        267          279         291         303         316         330         344          359
1/ The population figure aseociated with agricultural year 1970/71 is 1971 since the crop will be consumed in 1971.
2/ Population figures 1971-78 were taken from Malian sources (Five Year Plan). For the following years, Malian projections are not consistent, with the assumed population growth rate
of 2.7% p.a. The population projections shown in the FYP are much too low. Here, a growth rate of 2.7% p.a. has been used throughout.  This is an optimistic assumption since
Mali has traditionally a migration loss
2   Based on an assmed per capita income increase of 2% p.a. (GDP growth 4.75% p.a. in real terms) and an income elasticity of demand for rice of 1.0. Increase in per capita rice consump-
tion is, of course, not only related to increases in per capita income but also to substitution elasticity with respect to other staples, mainly millet and, to a lesser extent, wheat.
The price relationahip between these staples has not changed significantly, however, over the last few years and is not expected to do so in future, at least not in a sense favourable
to increased rice consumption.
Actual 1971 as calculated by WARDA yearbook 1975, p. 185. Also equal to average of 1970-72 and close to 15 year average 1960-1974.
/ It has been aseumed that per capita consumption remained constant although retail prices of rice increased by 40% (RM40) or 55% (BB) in 1974.
Beaed on milling ratio of 65% used by official Malian sources. The milling ratio for paddy milled in rice mills is mostly in the range of 62-64% but the yield is higher with
traditional processing methods (usually about 70%). Since only about a third of total production passes through the mills, the average of 65% is on the low side.
Z/ Based on a rate of 100 kg per ha. For estimated development of areas under rice see Table 2. Incremental seed requirements have only been taken into account for those projects
for which future increases in production have been calculated in Table 2. The rate of 100 kg per ha is an overestimate since in traditional production not more than 60-80 kg/ha
are used while, on the other side of the range, farmers practising line-sowing also need only 80 kg/ha.
8/ The rate of 10% losses is in accordance with WARDA assumptions. Totals have been rounded to the nearest 1000.
'FI 



MALI
MOFTI II RIC pROJsCr
Zotinate of Do.cetic Production of Paddy 1968/69 - 1985/86 (without the Project)
1968/62          169/70         1970/71             1974/75        1975/76         1976/77      1977/78      1978/79     199/80       1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86
Area (ha 1000)
Offic. du Wiger               29.9             32.8            39.8               40.8            39.9            39.6        40.0         40.o         40D          40.o         40.         iO.D         40.0         40.0         40D
Op6ration Ri 866gou             -               7.9             8.8               28.7            34.3            33.8        34.3         35.0         36.5         38.0         38.5        39.0          39.2        39.2         39.2
Op6ration Ris Nopti I it       3.9              4.8             4.8               13.9            16.1            18.2        18.3         18.5         18.9         22.6         22.9        23.1          23.2        23.2         23.2
OpAration Ris Sil o             -                -              1.4               (3.6)            4.1             5.0         6.0          7.4          9.1         11.6         11.6        11.6         11.6         11.6         i].6
0ther project.  /               -                                -                (1.0)           (1.5)           (2.0)        (2.5)       (3.0)        (3.5)        (4.0)        (4.5)        (5.0)       (5.5)        ( 6.0)       (6.5)
Traditional j                126              120             119                 8$             114             114         114          114          114          114          114          114          114          114          114
yield (t/ha)
Office du Niger                1.54             1.61            1.33               2.11            2.25            2.38         2.40        2.40         2.40         2.40        2.40         2.40         2.40         2.40         2.40
Op6ration Rix SRhou             -               1.32            1.49               1.41            1.57            3iA4         1.60        1.70         1.75         1.80         1.85         1.85         1 85         1.85        1 85
Op&rstion Ris Nopti           (1.15)            1.15            1.15               1.40            1.15            1.39         1.50        1.56         1.59        1.57          1.62         1.66         1.68        1.69          1.71
Op6ration Pis 8ikaeao           -                -             (1 10)             (1.15)           1.15            1.16        1.20         1.23         1.26         1.32         1.32         1.32         1.32        1.32         1.32
Other Projects 1/               -                -               -                (1 50)          (1.50)          (1.50)       (1.50)      (1.50)       (1.50)       (1.50)       (1.30)       (1.50)       (1.50)       (1.50)       (1.50)
Traditional 2/                 0.67             0.74            0.81               0.73            0.79            0.75        0.75         0.75         0.75         0.75         0.75        0.75          0.75        0.75         0.75
Production (1000)
efli^  d,. O4i.               46.1             ) .6            52.9               86.0            90.0            94.4         96.0        96.0         96.0         96.0        96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0         96.0
Op6hation Rim SfAon              v             10.4            13.1               40.2            54.0            48.6         54.9        59.5        63.9         68.4         71.2         72.1          72.5        7Z.5         72.5
Op4ration Ris Nopti           (4.9)             5.5             5.5               19.4            18.4            25.4         27.5        28.8         30.0        35.5         37.2         38.4         38.9         39.2         39.7
Op6ration Rix Si e              -                -             (1.5)              (4.1)            4.7             5.8         7.2          9.1         11.5         15.3         15.3         15.3         15.3        15.3         15.3
Other projects I/               -                -               -                 1.5             2.3             3.0         3.8          4.5          5.3          6.0          6.7          7.5          7.5         7.5          7 5
Traditional                   84.4             88.8            96.4               63.8            89.6            85.5         85.5        85.5         85.5         85.5        85.5         85.5         85.5         85.5         85.5
Total                   135.7            157.5 2/       169.4 2/           215.0           259.0 6/         262,7        274.9      283.4        292.2        306.7        311.9        314.8        315.7        316.0        316.5
(Rounded)               136              158            169                 215            259              263         275         283          292          307          312          315          316          316          317
Notional entry for minl Projects in progoes   uch as Op6ration Ri-Sorgho in the Gao  rea, the OpArtion Petits Perinetrea in the KeYes ara, bottoand development in  afmUb4       bnibd baarea., tevelopment in the Naute V 11&. etc.
-/ Aree  under traditional rice cultivation were  atieated at about 130,000 ha before the launching of Op4rations in 1969.  It has bean seaumed that until 1974/75 this are  develgped in line with rural population growth but that aln
aream developed by projects are daductible fro. this ara.  In 1975/76, traditional farmers are aecused to he,# reacted to the 60% increnese in producer price. by a 30% ineree  in are  (implying a supply response eleaticity of 0.5
which i  low). The additionl supply induced by the price increrae is assumed to be only 20,000 tona of paddy. An from 1975.76, epootan.oum growth in traditional rice cultivtion hba  bee. ceased to be 1% p.a. only.
3/Icluding Bougoula and Syn-Serantono II as fin 1980.
For 1968/69 - 1975/76 yields in the traditional sector hee been uad aa the balaneing parameter in order to erriee at the official overall production figures.  Th. fact that thene yields are in the renge between 0.7 and 0.8 t/ba
genraly eamumed for traditional rice growing proven that the d-elopment of production figures from ths late 'aimties up to 1975/76 can be explined satiefactorily by reference te individual projects' development.
2 I6NDA Tearbook 1975, p. 185.
2/Produetion data conveyed to Econoaic Mieion in February 1976 by the Direction Nationals du Plan.
( ) . estimate
Sources;  VRDA, Office du Niger Report of June 1974; data from OpAration Rix S6gou and Op6ration Ri. Kopti; Productivity Progra from Doesnde de Financesent  .u FED; Staff Project Report Itali  ud for Op4ratiOn Rim Sikmen; Research
nd Development: Effete 6conomiqu*  du Barrage de  blingub, for ares  nd production -hora casier" until 1974; also Enquite Agricole 1973/74; Anne. 1 of Economic Meeorandus on NMli of July, 1976 (1134-MLI).



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Estimate of Prospective Demand and Supply Relations on Mali Rice Market, 1975/76-1987/88 (in lOOOt of paddy)
1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Paddy Requirements 1/                      23'+         244          255         26?          279          291          303          316          330          344          359            375
Paddy Production 2/                        259          263          275         283          292          307          312          315          316          316          317           317
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                + 25         + 19         + 20        + 16         + 13         + 16         +  9         -  1         - 14         - 28         - 42         -  58
Incremental Production from
the Project                                 -            _           -            -             2            6           19           25           28           31           32            33.
Net Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)
with the Project                          + 25         +  19        +  20       +  16        + 15         + 22         + 28         + 24         + 14         +  3         - 10         -  25
In 7.of Dom. Production                     10             7            7            6           5           7            9            8            4             1        -  3         -   8
/ See Table 1.                                                                                                                                                                                       '
2/  See Table 2.
UPeromam     f1pw  ban          lmaeulated before roundiag lnd my not correspond to pereentag  of rounded figures.
C,



Economic Price of Paddy in Constant 1977 Price,
I. Export Parity Price
A. Export to Ivory Coast                                B.  Export to Overeas Markets                           C.        t to Seneg
(Reference vality: Thai 25-35% brokens)                (Reference Quality  Thai 25-35% broken6)                CIiflrenceQCia1ity  A 1 White brokene)
1272        1978        1272         1980  etc.         1277        1978         1979        1980  etc.         127a         1978        1979         198  etc.
Fob price Abidjan in constant 1977 S/t 3/            189         214         241          273                189         214          241         273
in constant 197? FM/t          92,610     104,860     118,090      133,770             92,610     104,860      118,090     133,770
Cif price Abidjan in constant 1977 FM/t 7/      107,310      119,56o     132,790      148,470
Cif price Dakar in constant 1977 S/t _/                                                                                                                              192          213          237         264
in constant 1977 FH/t                                                                                                                             94,080     104,370      116,130     129,360
Port Handling/Stevedoring (FMti)                                                                           3,740       3,740        3,740       3,740
Transport Road Mopti-Abidjan (FMt)               18,100       18,100      18,100       18,100             18,100      18,100       18,ioo      18,100
Transport Rail Bamako-Dakar (FM/t)                                                                                                                                18,220       18,220       18,220      18,220
Transshipment Road/Rail (FH/t)                                                                                                                                     3,000        3,000        3/k)        3,00
Transport Road Mopti-Bamako (FM/t)                                                                                                                                16,640       16,640       16,640      16,640
Loading at Mopti (FM4/t)                          i,OOo        1,OuO        1 000       I 000              1 000       10,o0o       1ooo        1,000              1,000           '0 1      000
Milling Costs (Ft/t)                             14,710       14,710      14,710       14,710             14,710      14,710       14,710      14,710             14710        14710        14:710      1- 710
Paddy and Rice bags (FM/iut)                      9 10         8ino        9W           P31 Q31,l                      Q,1         0 , r -;I    q:                              ?,77A        ,31 QQQ
Price ex factory (FM/t)                          66,190       78,440      91,670      107,350             45,470      57,720       70,950      86,630             30,200       40,490      52,250       65 480
Paddy Equivalent (FM/t) i/                        4l,o40      48,630      56,835       66,555             28,190      35,785       43,990      53,710             18,725       25,105       32,395      40,600
Transport to Hill (FM/t)                          5,920        5,920       5,920        5,920              5,920       5,920        5,920       5,920              .3,920       5,920        5,920       5,920
Collection Costa (FH/t)                           3,445        3,445       3,445        3,445              3,445       3,445        3,445       3,445              3,445        3,445        3,445       3,445
Lossea (FHM/t)                                     2,250       2,250       2,250        2,250              2,250       2,250        2,250       2,250              2,250        2,250        2,250       2,250
Economic Price of Paddy, Farm Gate (FM/t)         29,425      37,015      45,220       54,940             16,575      24,170       32,375      42,095               7,U0       13,490       20,780       28,98
Rounded (FM/kg)                                     29          37          45           55                 17          2            32          42                 7            13           21          29
3/  Derived from World Bank Forecasts; May 1977, 25-35% brokens.
$ 530 freight/insurance = MF 14,700/t.
3] 60% of price of Thai, 5% brokens, plus $30 freight/insurance.
i/ 62% milling ratio.



Economic Price of Paddy in Constant 1977 Prices
II Import Subatitution Price
A.  Consumption in Bamako                                B.  Consumption in 5th and 6th Region
T-eference Price: Imports through Dakar)                 (Reference Price: Imports through Abidjan)
1977         1978          1979         1980    etc.    17            1978          1979          1980    etc.
Thai 25-35X brokens fob
-  in constant 1977 $ per t                     189           214           241          273              189           214          241           273
Sea freight insurance in 1977 S/t                    30           30            30           30               30            30           30            30
Total cost cif Abidjan or Dakar                     219          244           271          303              219           244           271          303
In conatant 1977 FM/t 2/                       107,310       119,560       132,790      148,470          107,310      119,560       132,790       148,470
+ Port landling/Stevedoring (F%/t)                3,740        3,740         3,740        3,740            3,740         3,740        3,740         3,740
+ Tranahipeent to Rail (FN/t)                     2,000        2,000         2,000        2,000             -             -            -             -
+ Rail transport Dakar-Baako (FM/t)              18,220       18,220        18,220       18,220
+ Road transport Abidjan-Mopti (FM/t)              -            -             -            -              18,100        18,100       18,100        18,100
+ Unloading Bamako or Hopti (FP/t)                1,O00        1,000         1,000        1,000            1,000         1,000         1,000        1,000
Wholesale Price Bamako or Mopti                 132,270      144,520       157,750      173,430          130,650       142,900      156,130       171,810
(without OPAM's margin)
- Road transport Mopti-Beuako (FM/t)             16,640       16,640        16,640       16,640             -             _                   - _    -
- Milling costs (FM/t)                           14,710       14,710        14,710       14,710           14,710        14,710        14,710       14,710
-,Paddy and Rice bags (FM/t)                      8,310        8,310         8,310         8,310           8,310         8,310         8,310        8,310
Rice ex factory (FM/t)                         92,610      104,860       118,090      133,780          107,630       119,880       133,110      148,290
Paddy Equivalent (62%)                           57,420        65,015       73,215        82,945          66,730        74,325        82,530       91,940
- Tranaport to sill (IM/t)                        5,920        5,920         5,920        5,920            5,920         5,920         5,920        5,920
- Collection costs (FM/t)                         3,445        3,445         3,445         3,445           3,445         3,445         3,445        3,445
- Losses                                          2,250        2,250         2,250         2,250           2,250         2,250         2,250        2,250
Economic Price of Paddy, Farm Gate (FM/t)        452,55       53,l50        61,350       71,080           54,865        62,370       70,665        80,075
Rounded (FM/kg)                                   46            53            61           71               55            62            71           80
1/  Derived from World Bank Forecasts: Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities, May 1977.                                                                m x
At FM490/1$US.                                                                                                                                             4-. o-



- 102 -                    ANNEX 10
Table 5
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Development of the Rice Marketing Bareme for ORM, 1974/75 - 1977/7 8
(in FM/t)
1974/75      1975/76       1976/77       1977/78 6/
Producer Price Paddy 1/          40,000        40,000        40,000        45,000
Extension +Crop protection          -            -             -            5,321
Losses (5%)                       2,000         2,000         2,000         2,250
Paddy Collection                   2,475        2,475         2,475         3,444
Paddy Transport                    2,275        2,275         4,030         5,915
Paddy Bags                         2,645        2,645         5,280           -
Paddy Delivered at Rice Mill    49,395         49,395        53,785        61,930
Rice Equivalent                  75,986 2/    79,669 3/    86,750 3/    99,887  3/
Milling Cost                      1;',000       8,695         8,695        14,712
Rice Bags                         :L,450        1,450         2,790         8,310  7/
Rice Cost ex-mill                89,436        89,814        98,235       122,909
Financial Charges                 2,130         2,582         5,485         6,821
Transport Costs                  10,880         6,000         6,000         8,000
OPAM Wholesale Margin              ',000        7,000         5,000         7,500
Retailer's Margin                 1,500         1,500         1,500         3,000
OSP Subsidy                         -            -            - 620       -10,798
Consumer Price 4/               116,762       106,896       115,600       137,432
Consumer Price by Grades
(FM/kg)
ELB                              123.50        123.50        123.50         148.60
RM 25                            115.60        115.60        115.60         141.10
RM 40                            111.50        111.50        111.50         136.60
BB                                93.00         93.00         93.00         118.60
Prix de Cession 5/
ELB                              110.50        110.50        110.50         145.60
RM 25                            102.60        107.60        102.60         138.10
RM 40                             98.50         98.50         98.50         133.60
BB                                80.00         80.00         80.00         115.60
1/ White rice.
2/ Milling ratio 65%.
3/ Milling ratio 62%.
4/ Weighted average of qualities produced (see below).
5/ Price paid by OPAM to rice-milling agency (Office du Niger or ORM).
6/ New prices as of autumn 1977.
7/  Includes paddy bags.
Sources:  Annual Government Decrees on Cereals Marketing Baremes.



- 103 -                              ANNEX 11
Table 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Unit Costs of Farm Inputs (FM)
Cost to Economy            Cost to Farmer /1
1.  Plough
Unit Cost                                 76,300                      67,100
Amortization /2                            7,630                       6,710
Cost per ha /3                             1,910                       1,680
Maintenance per year /4                    3,360                       3,360
Maintenance per ha                           840                         840
2.  Harrow
Unit Cost                                 51,900                      45,700
Amortization /2                            5,190                       4,570
Cost per ha /5                               650                         570
Maintenance per year /4                    2,280                       2,280
Maintenance per ha                           280                         280
3.  Cultivator
Unit Cost                                 90,800                      83,000
Amortization /2                            9,080                       8,300
Cost per ha /5                             1,140                      1,040
Maintenance per year /4                    4,150                       4,150
Maintenance per ha                           520                         520
4.  Pair of Oxen
Unit Cost                                130,100                    130,100
Amortization                                 -   /6                      -   /6
Maintenance of oxen and gear, food           475/day                     475/day
5.  Fertilizer
Urea (t)                                 151,400                     97,000
6.  Threshing
Mechanical Thresher                    5,100,000                  5,100,000
Amortization per ton /7                    2,830                      2,830
Maintenance per ton /8                       280                         280
Operating Cost per ton /9                    900                         900
Rate charged by ORM                        4,000/ton                  4,000/ton
7.  Line-Sowing
Seeder                                   330,000                    330,000
Amortization per year /10                 41,200                     41,200
Amortization per ha /11                      690                        690
Maintenance per year /4                   16,500                     16,500
Maintenance per ha /11                       275                        275
Rate charged by ORM                        1,000/ha                   1,000/ha
/1  For items 1-3 and 5, SCAER prices; for items 6-7, ORM cost price; for item 4,
estimated real cost.
/2  10 years.
/3  On the basis of 4 ha/unit.
/4  5Z of cost to farmer, annually.
/5  On the basis of 8 ha/unit.
/6  No amortization as animals  are sold at least at purchase price due to gain in weight.
/7  Amortization 5 years, 360 ton/year.
/8  10  of cost annually.
/9  Rough estimate.
/10 8 years.
/11 60 ha/year.



- 104 -                      ANNEX II
Table 2
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Labor and Equipment Input of Farming Operations (days/ha)
Equipment           Labor
Ploughing /a                                6                12
Crushing Clods by Daba                                        5
Harrowing /a                                1                 2
Sowing, broad cast                                            1
Line-sowing /a                              0.5               1
Weeding by hand
- before flooding                                          15
Weeding, ox-drawn /a                        2                 6
Spreading fertilizer                                          I
Harvesting with sickle                                      20/25
Threshing with flail                                         45 kg/day
Winnowing                                                     3
Threshing, mechanical                    600 kg/hour
/a   Plus corresponding time and costs for use of oxen.



ANNEX 11
- 105 -                                         Table 3
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Inputs, Yields, and Revenue per Ha at Successive Stages of Cultivation Techniques
(FM/ha, if not specified otherwise)
Stage             0           1           2            3            4
1.  Yield (Kg/ha)                                               700      1,100        1,400       1,900         2,500
2.  Producer Price (FM/kg) 4/                                    41         41           50          50            50
3.  Gross Value of Production                               28,700      45,100       70,000      95,000       125,000
4. Annual Input and Equipment Costs
Ploughing 1/                                           5,370       5,370        5,370       4,410         4,410
Harrowing 1/                                             -           -          2,650       1,325         1,325
Weeding with Cultivator 1/                               -           -            -         2,510         2,510
Seed 2/                                                2,240       2,240        4,620       3,700         3,700
Small Tools 3/                                           500         500          300         300           300
Fertilizer                                               -           -            -           -           9,700
Subtotal                                          8,110      8,110       12,940      12,245        21,945
5.  Line-Sowing Charge 1/                                       -           -           -         1,240         1,240
6.  Threshing Charge 5/                                         -        2,640        3,360       4,560         6,000
7. Net Value of Production 6/                               20,590      34,350       53,700      76,955        95,815
8.  Development Levy 7/                                         -       12,000       12,000      12,000        12,000
9.  Net Revenue                                             20,590      22,350       41,700      64,955        83,815
10.  Labor Input (MD/ha) 8/                                       57          56          75          71            81
11.  Return per Man-day (FM)                                     361         399         556         915         1,035
12.  Representative Farm Size (ha)                                 2,4         2.4         2.4         2.8           3.0
13.  Net Revenue per Farm Unit (FM)                          49,416      53,640      100,080    181,874        251,445
14. Incremental Net Revenue per
Farm Unit (FM) 9/                                          -         4,224       46,440      81,794        69,571
1/  Including use of oxen.
2/  Stage 0 and 1: 100 kg of red rice at FM 28/kg.    At stage 2, 100 kg of Sativa rice of which one quarter
renewed at FM 65.0/kg and the remainder valued at FM 50.0/kg. At stages 3 and 4, an economy of 20 kg/ha
due to line-sowing.
3/ ORM estimate.
4/ For stage 0 and 1, two thirds of production are assumed to be home-consumed and are valued at FM 50.0/kg;
one third is assumed to be marketed at the official price for red rice (FM 28/kgj.
5/  At rate prevailing in 1976/77, i.e. 6 FM per kg of paddy; 40% of harvest assumed to be threshed mechanically.
6/ Line 3 minus lines 4-6.
7/ 240 kg of paddy per ha at FM 50/kg as from 1982.
8/ Assuming 60Z of harvest to be threshed manually.
9/ Increment over preceding stage of cultivation technique.



- 106 -                            ANNEX 11
Table 4
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Land Rent and Development Levies - Rent Recovery Rates
(FM/ha)
Stage 0   Stage 2   Stage 3   Stage 4
Gross Value of Production 1/           28,700    70,000    95,000    125,000
Net Value of Production 2/             20,590    53,700    76,955       95,815
Imputed Labor 3/                       17,650    23,250    22,010       25,110
Imputed Interest on Farm
Equipment 4/                          2,940      3,325     3,500       3,500
Imputed Risk 5/                          -                   2,960       4,800
Imputed Management Fee 6/                -         4,130     6,630       9,630
Land Rent                                    0    22,995    41,875      52,775
Development Levy 7/                       -       12,000    12,000      12,000
Rent Recovery Rate                                    52        29          23
Project average 8/                                              33%
1/ Annex 11, Table 3.
2/ Net value after deduction of charges for mechanical threshing of 40% of
production and for line-sowing; see Table 3.
3/ The value of labor was calculated as a residual for stage 0. The
resulting shadow price of labor is about MF 310/day which is about 80%
of the wages of unskilled labor employed by the project.
4/ The annuity for 10% interest over a 10 year life time is 16.3%. Since
10% amortization have been deducted as annual input costs (Annex 10,
Table 3) only 6.3% of the value of farm equipment (incl. oxen) were
deducted in addition.
5/  Risk allowances are entered for the purchase of advanced equipment
(cultivator, 10% of cost to farmer, spread over 2.8 ha average farm size)
and fertilizer (20% of cost to farmer). In stage 2, farmers equipment
and inputs do not differ significantly from their style of operation
under traditional cultivation (stage 0).
6/ 10% of incremental gross value of production (compared to traditional
cultivation).
7/ As from 1982/83.
8/ For shares of stages 2-4 at full development see Annex 9, Table 3.



- 107 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Financial Implications for ORM and Government
1.        Development levies in kg of paddy per ha as proposed in the appraisal
report for the Mopti I Rice Project (Credit 277-MLI) are compared with present
ORM policy and with the levies which Government agreed to implement under the
Mopti II Rice Project (in kg/ha).
Credit            ORM           Proposed
Year         Agreement         Policy           Levies
1972             60              60
1973             60              60
1974             60              80
1975             60             100
1976             60             120
1977            120             140              140
1978            120             160              160
1979            120             180              180
1980            120             180              200
1981            120             180              220
1982            180             180              240
1983            180             180             240
(Government has given assurances that the levy will be brought to the level
of 240 kg/ha in 1982.  It is assumed that this will be achieved by annual
increases of 20 kg/ha, but ORM is free to choose a different time-path if
circumstances warrant it).
2.        Table 1 shows the forecast of ORM revenue and expenditure (in con-
stant 1977 prices) based on:
-    development levies as shown in the last column of para 1;



- 108-                     ANNEX 12
Page 2
a producer price of MF 50/kg;
revenue from other sources as explained in the foot-
notes of Table 1;
-    Government and IDA participation in project costs at
a rate of 30% for 1978-82 (Annex 7, Tables 8 and 9)
and no further participation thereafter;
-    debt servicing at the charge of Government.
The financial implications for Government are summarized in Tables 2 and 3.
3.        Cost recovery has been calculated in Table 4.  Under the assumptions
made in this report, including the necessarily arbitrary estimates of what
constitutes incremental staff and operating expenditure, and at a discount
rate of 10%, just under half of total project cost is recovered from recur-
rent revenue of ORM. Most of the other half is recovered in the form of
savings on import subsidies which Government would have to lay out, in the
absence of the project, as from 1983 (Table 3).



- 19 -ANRE  12
Table  1
MOPTI II RI F1 0.;
Pr4octicn of JR  Revenue ac                    1978 - 1987
(in FM MI' iSon; CO-n?tPl   *1^-I   .f Dec. 1977)
1978     1979      1980       1981      1982          1983      1984      1985       1986       1987      988 -2003
Costs
Staff 1/                            159       164       172        185       195           195       195       195        195        195      195
Operating expenditture 2/           241       266       297        333       354           387       420       425        427        429      429
Total                               400       430       469        518       549           582       615       620        622        624      624
Revenue
Reimbursement for paddy
collection and transport
to mill 3/                          169       197       257        344       390           456       483       492        497        503      506
Net revenue from aer. credit 4/    2             5        7          9        11            12        13        14         15         16       16
Seed-farm sales 5/                   13        17        20         23        26            29        31        33         33         33       33
Ploughing charges 6/                  12       18        24         30        36            36        36        36         36         36       36
Line-sowing charges 7/                 5        7        10         17        19            20        22        23         24         24       24
Threshing charges 8/                  66       81       105        141       159            186      199       203        204        206      208
Development levy 9/                 133       168       238        334       404           430       434       437        437        437      437
Subtotal                            400       493       661        898    1,045          1,169    1,218    1,238        1,246      1,255   1,260
Participatic9 of the Project
in staff and operating
expenditure 10/                     145       153       165        181       194            -         -          -          -          -       -
Total Revenue                       545       646       826      1,079    1,239          1,169    1,218    1,238        1,246      1,255   1,260
Cash Flow before equip-
ment renewal                           145       216       357        561      690            587       603       618        624        631      636
Cumulative, 5 years                              361      718      1,279    1.969                    1,190    1,808       2,432      3,063
Equipment renewal
requirements, 5 years llJ               -                               --   1,045             -              ------                 2,290       458 12/
;Residual revenue,
5 years period                          __                                    ; - 4                   _________                     + 773    +178 12/
1/  Annex 7, Table S.  Without techn. assistance.  Includes adult literacy personnel.
2/  Annex 7, Table 9.  Includes operating costs for adult literacy, the audio-visual program  and agricultural research; with 10%
physical contingencies. Excludes equipment renewal.
31 For paddy collection, transport to mill, contribution to extensito service and crop prrtectios cost, FM 14,680/t are
reimbursed according to the 1977/78 barime.  The allowance for losses (PH 2,250/t) Is not coumted as losses have been left
out of account under costs as well.
4/  Reaidual income from interest on credit for implmnts and fertilize:. (Anex 7, Table 10) after allowing for bad debts.
5/  At MF 65/kg.  At full capacity, the seed farm will sell 520 tunes of seed annually.  Sales wIll gradually rise to that level.
6/  At HF 12,000/ha.  Areas ploughed by tractor are projected to be 1,000 ha in 1978 and to risg to 3,000 ha in 1982.  Instead of
ploughing services, this category may also contain revenue from transport or other services performed with tractors.
7/  At HF 1,000/ha.  For areas under line-sowing see Annex 9, Table 3.
8/  At MF 6/kg.  Production threshed mechanically is asusued to be equal to marketed production.  See footnote 3 above.
4/  Starting with 160 kg/ha in 1978 and increasing by 20 kg/ha annually until the final level of 240 kg/ha is reached in 1982.  Levies
are assumed to be collected for 90% of sown area until 1982 and for 95% thereafter.
10/ See Annex 7, Tables 8 and 9.  10% physical contingencies hbve been added to the participation in operating expenditure.
Includes also the 1002 financing of the adult literacy and audiovisual program's staff and operating expenditure and agricultural
research's operating expenditure.
11/ Equipment includes all items listed a  such in the ORM budget, including electrical lnstallations and furniture.  For 1972-76,
figures were taken from the 1976 0Rl Bilan, all costs expressed in Dec. 1977 prices.  For 1977, the balance available in the
disbursement schedule of Credit 277-4I, Category I, was used.  For equipment 1978-82, see Annex 7, Table 6 plus physical
contingencies of 5%. No attempt was made to distribute renewals over individaal years.
12/ Annual average at full development.



ANNEX 12
- 110 -                         Table  2
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Import Subsidies Saved by Incremental Production (in FM per ton)
Bamako a/       Mopti Region b/
a)  Retail price 1/                              138,900              138,900
Minus retail margin                            3,000                3,000
OPAM tax                                       7,500                7,500
Wholesale price                              128,400              128,400
Cost ex-mill Mopti                           122,910              122,910X
Plus road transport to Bamako 2/              16,640                 -
Cost ORM rice at consumption place           139,550              122,910
Subsidy                                       11,150            -  5,490
b)  Import substitution cost
wholesale level 3/                           173,400              171,800
Wholesale price                              128,400              128,400
Subsidy                                       45,000               43,400
c)  Difference of subsidy (local
production against imports,:                  33,850              48,890
Per ton of paddy (62%)                        20,990              30,311
(Rounded, per kg)                              21.0                30.3
a/  45% of incremental production.
b/  55% of incremental production.
1/ Annex 10, Table 5. The reference price is 50% of RM25 and 50% of RM40.
2/ The bareme shows a perequated cost representing the average distance
for all rice moved in Mali.
3/  See Annex 10, Table 4b; the 1980-85 price forecast was used.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE flS CT
Isoact of Project on Goverrment Revenue
978198                      1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989-1997
Incremental Froduction from the           -         2         6       19        26       28       32        32       33        33       34           34
Project (1,000 t of paddy) I/
Imports substituted by the Project
(1,000 t of paddy) 2/                                                                   1        14       28        32       33        34           34
Import Subsidy Saved (MF million) J/                                                    26       365      731       835      861       887         887
Servicixg of IDA and ADF Credits
(NF million) L/                           2        13       33        56       72       77        77       77        77       77       180         180
Irput Subsidies kl                        8        18        28       44       65       115      128      154       154      154       I*           1514
Goverrmcnt Contribution to
ProJect Cost (MF million) 6/             56        59       65        72       76
Total Goverrunent Cost (MF million)      66        90      126       172       213      192      205       230      231       231      334          334
lNet Impact on Goverrvent Revenue
(MF million)                          - 66       - 90    -126    -172    -213    - 166    + 160    + 501    + 604    + 630    + 553              + 553
Annex 9, Table 4.
Annax 10, Table 3.
y   At FM 26.1 per kg of paddy. See AnrBx 12, Table 2.  (45% Bamako, 55% Mopti).
/Expenditure of US$15.0 million (IDA) and US$6.0 million (ADF) are both assumed to follow pattern of disbursement schectadx  in Table 2 of Annex 8.
Annex 7, Table 10, plas physical contingencies. Extrapolated beyond 1982 on the basis of Anaox 9, Table 3.
Annex 7, Tables 8 and 9. Inc2uding physical contingencies for operating e.penditure.  50% of amounts shown in tbese tables (exol. applied research)
at the charge of Government for 1978-82.



MALI
MOFPI II RICE PROJECT
Cost RecoverY Index and Fiscal Ratio
(in FMmlin,ot of taxes)
Tat al                        OPAM                                    Total       Nc  Government Savings
Investmentl/  Increm.      Increm.           Increm.       Increm.          Developm.   Reimburse-   Threahing       Other        Incr.         on Subsidies  i
InM       + Replacement   Staff 2/   Op. Cest 2/   Tech. Asst. 4/   Cost                Lev 6J/       monSteL/    Charges  8    R/ e                         o- bs Revemde                Total
1              601         47            55             75               778                          -              - _                                          -  8                     -8
2            2,504         48            60             75             2,687             -            37             15           -            52                 - 18                     34
3            2,717         50            67             75             2,909              3         .76              31           1           ill                 - 28                     83
4            1,462         54            76             56             1,650             80          189             77          39           385                 - 44                    341
5               217        56            81             40               394            130          225             92          53           500                 - 39                    461
6              144         56            89             -                289            133          264            108          54           559                 +250                    809
7               144        56            98             -                298            136          284            116          55           591                 +603                  1,194
8              144         56            99             -                299            138          286            117          55           596                 +681                  1,277
9              1144        56            99             -                299            138          287            117          55           597                 +707                  1,304
10              144         56           100             -                300            138          290            118          55           601                 +733                  1,334
11-25             144        56           100              -               300            138          292            119          55           604                  +733                 1,337
Total *                                                                 8,057                                                                3,550                3,142                  7,262
Cost Recovery Index - 48                        42%   Fiscal Ratio =o%
w discounted at 10% p.a.
1/  IncludiDg physical cortingencies.
x/ rcluding adult literacy program.
3 EKcludirg adult literacy program and agricultural research but including 100% of audio-visual program. Includes physical contingencies.
50% of total technical assistance.
Ineremontal equipnent renewal is estimated to be related partly to incremental area (30% of total) and partly to incremental production (44% of total).  A share of
37% was adopted.
J For incremental areas see AnnBx 9, Table 4. Levies per ha are 160 kg in 1978, 180 kg in 1979, 200 kg in 1980, 220 kg in 1981 and 240 kg thereafter. Producer price
50 FM/kg. See also Table 1, footnote 9.
J/  For incremental production see Annex 9, Table 4. 40% of inrremental production is marketed until 1982 ant 45% thereafter.  Reimbursements are 14.680 FM/t for collection,
transpcrt and contribution to extension costs and crop protection (Annex 10, Table 5). Reimbursements for weight losses were not included as there would be corresponding
real losses not shown under production costs.
8/  FM 6,000/t.  Quantities threshed are equal to qcantities marketed.
I/  Sales of seed; revenue from agricultural credit; lini-sowing charges.  See Table  1 of Annex 12.  Incremental revenue is proportional to incremental areas cultivated as
defined in Annex 9. Table 4.
10/  See Table 3.  Subsidies saved on rice imports minss input sabsidies.
Hr



- 113 -                     ANNEX 13
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Economic Justification
1.        Project costs in December 1977 prices including physical contin-
gencies have been adjusted as follows:
-    the assistance to the Rural Works Department
has been excluded;
-    the adult literacy program has been excluded;
-    the applied agricultural research program has
been excluded;
-    only 50% of technical assistance is counted as
incremental cost since, without the project,
two technicians would still be required;
2.        Incremental farm labor inputs have been derived as shown in Table 3.
The opportunity cost of labor (output foregone in traditional rice production)
has been derived in Annex 11, Table 4. This cost, in domestic currency, has
been multiplied with the Conversion Factor for rice, as described in Appendix I
to this Annex. All other local costs have a conversion factor of 0.88.
3.        The economic price of paddy is based on the import substitution
price. The use of the import substitution price is justified because the
apparent surplus in the initial project years is expected to be either needed
for domestic consumption in years of below average harvest, or accumulated
to build up a reserve stock for drought periods. (An alternative calculation
has been made using export parity prices until 1984.)
4.        The project period is 25 years.



- 114 -
ANNEX 13
Appendix I
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Conversion Factors for Costs in Local Currency
1.        The standard conversion factor (SCF) for Mali is 0.88.
2.        The opportunity cost of farm labor is its production foregone
in traditional rice cultivation,, estimated to be MF 310 per man-day at a
producer price of paddy of MF 50/kg (Annex 11, Table 4). The economic
price of rice is:
M- F 173.4/kg at the wholesale level in Bamako, and
MF 171.8/kg at the wholesale level in Mopti (Annex 10, Table 4b)
HF 172.5/kg for the weighted average (45%:55%).
The cost of local production is
-    MF 139.5/kg at the wholesale level in Bamako
-    HMF 122.9/kg at the wholesale level in Mopti (Annex 12, Table 2)
MF 130.4/kg for the weighted average (45Z:55%).
Thus, the conversion factor of rice, which expresse s7 hg domestic price level
in relation to the international price of rice, is          - 1.323; the shadow
130 4
price of labor will be multiplied with the conversion factor for rice output
foregone.



MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Correlation of.Input Costs and Yields per Hectare
Weighted
Average         Yield
Stage 2        Stage 3        Stage 4        FM/ha           (t/ha)
Value of Inputs at Cost
to Economy (MF/ha) 1/        13,530         12,525          27,665
Share of Stage (%) in
Cultivated Area (with
the Project)
Year
0                  (86.8)         (10.5)          (2.7)          (13,800)        (1.48)
1                   72.3           23.6            4.1            13,900          1.56
2                   66.9           26.5            6.6           14,200           1.61                     H
3                   59.1           28.5           12.4            15,000          1.68                      n
4                   43.4           38.9           17.7            15,600          1.80
5                   42.0           29.0           29.0            17,300          1.86
6                   36.0           32.0           32.0            17,700          1.91
7                   25.0           37.5           37.5            18,500          2.00
1/  Val]ue of input costs was derived from Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2.
NB. Since not all polders develop simultaneously, the aggregate yield development does not
follow the pattern projected for individual polders (Annex 9, Table 1). Average input
costs per ha for the project as a whole are interpolated with the help of the above table.
The same applies to input costs without the project in Mopti I polders,  Syn-Sarantomo II and                  l 
Bougoula.  For   the new polders, input costs are uniformly MF 8,110/ha (corresponding to
Stage 0 or Stage 1) in the absence of the project. (See Table 2).                   



MALI
HOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Incremen4aJ Poductian Ctatn
1978               1979           1980        1981         1982      1983      1984       1985       1986        1987      1988           1989
A. With the Project
Yield/ha (t)                         1.56               1.61           1.66         1.74         1.78     1.83       1.93       1.9f       1.9K        1.99      2.00         2.00
Inputa/ha (MF/000)                 13.9                14.2           14.6        15.3         15,5      16.5       17.9      18.1       18.2        18.4       18.5         l8.5
Sown area  (1000 he)                18.5               20.8           26.4         33.7         37.4     37.8       38.1       38.3      38.3        38.3       38.3         38.3
Value of Inputs (MF million)       257                295            385          516          580      624        682        693       697         705        709          709
B. Without the Project
a) Hbti I Polders , Syn and
Yield/ha (t)                         1.56               1.58           1.57         1.63         1.66     1.68       1.69       1.71       1.          1.73      1.73         1.73
Inputa7ha (MF/000)                 '13.9               14.0-          14.0         14.4         14.6     15.0       15.1       15.2      15.8        15.3       15.3         15.3
Sown Are- (ba)                      18.5               18.9           22.6         22.9         23.1     23.2       23.2       23.2      23.4        23.2       23.2         23.2
Value of Inputs (MH million)       257                265            316          325          337      348        350        353        354         355       355          355
b) New Poldere    -
Yield/ha   (t)                                          0.70           0.70-         -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
inputa/ha (MF/OOO)                                      8.11           8.11          - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Sown  Are    (ha)                                       2.1 ( )5                     -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Value of Inputs                                        17             28           28           28       28         28         28         28          28         28           28
c) Total Value of Inputa
without th, ProJect   t  +-W       257                282            344          353          365       376       378        381        382         383        383          383
C. Incremntal Value of
Inputs ( A-B), Mr million               0                 13             41          163          215       248       304        312        315         322        326          326
See Annex 9, Table 1 and 2, and Table 1 above.
6 H



- 117 -                                        ANNEX 13
Table 3
MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Incremental Farm Labor Inputs
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984       1985  etc.
I.   With the Project
Sown area (1000 ha) 1/              18.5       20.8      26.4       33.7       37.4      37.8       38.1       38.3
x 75 Man-Days per ha 2/
= 1000 MD                        1,388      1,560     1,980      2,528      2,805     2,835      2,858      2,872
II. Without the Project
a) Mopti I Polders,
kougoula and Syn-
Sarantoo II
Sown area (1000 ha) 1/           18.5       18.9      22.6       22.9       23.1      23.2       23.2       23.2
x 75 Man-Days per ha 2/
= 1000 MD                     1,388     1,418      1,695     1,718      1,733      1,740     1,740      1,740
b) Traditional Production
in Mopti II Polders
Sown area (1000 ha) 1/                       2.1       3.5        3.5        3.5       3.5        3.5        3.5
x 57 Man-Days per ha 3/
= 1000 MD                                 120        200        200       200        200        200       200
c) Total Without the Project    1,388       1,538     1,895      1,918      1,933     1,940      1,940      1,940
III. Incremental Labor Input            -           22         95       610        872        895       918        932
(1000 MD)
Value at MF 310/MD 4/              -            7         30       189        270        278       285        289
CIE Million)
1/ See Annex 9, Tables 1 and 2 respectively.
2/ The wvighted average of labor inputs of farms at stages 2-4 varies between 73.8 MD and 75.8 MD according to
the share of the more labor-intensive technlzues. The suall differences do not warrant a more detailed cal-
calation.
3/ See Annex 11, Table 3.
4/ For derivation of this wage rate see Annex 11, Table 4.



MALI
NOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculation
(in HF Million)
Year      Increm. Paddy       Econ.       Value of        Investment and             Incr. Staff 5/ and             Incr, Farm               In0cr.                                        Benefits
Production 1/    Price 2/       Incr.           Replacement 3/            Operatint Costs                  Inputs 6/          Farm Labor             Totgl Costs               minus
(t)           !MLku      PrZuction    Foreign C.  Local C. 41    Foreign C.  Local C. 41   Foreien C.  Local C .41   Loal C. _/  Foreign C.  Local C.  Total    Costs
I                             -             -             384       192               107          62               -          -             -             491         251        745  -    745
2           1,050           85.4             90         1,901       625               109          65               7           5             9          2,017         704      2,721  -  2,631
3           3,900            85.4           334          2,243      520               113          70               22         17            40          2,378         647      3,025  -  2,691
4          12,300            85.4        1,050           1,104      261               102          76               86         68           250          1,292         655      1,947  -    897
5          22,200            85.4        1,9d4             217       38                 86         80             114          89           357            417         5614       981  t    923
6          26,550            85.4         2,267            130       12                 51         81             131         103           368            312         564        876  4 13A
7          29,550            85.4         2,524            130       12                 56          86            161         126            377            347         601       918      1,576
8          31,900            85.4        2,74             130        12                57          86             165         129           382            352         609        961  +  1,763
9          32,500            85.4         2,7"5           130        12                 57         86             167         131           382            354         611        965  +  1,810
10          33,050            85.4         2,812            130        12                57          87             170        134           382             357         615        972  +  1,850
11          33 650            85.4         2,874            130       12                 57          87             173        135           382             360         616        976  +  1,898
12-25        33,900            85.4         2,895            130        12                57          87             173        135            382            360         616        976  4  1,919
1/  Lagged by 6 months in relation to inputs.
V   Import substitution price (45% Bamako; 55% Mopti) plus MF 9.4/kg for collection and transport to the mill.
/  Including physical contingencies.  Includes civil works, deep ploughing, engineering and supervision, and vehicles and equipment.
9 Standard couesion factor of 0.88 was applied.
Inwludee for years 1-5  50% of technical aseistance.
See Table 2.
Last line of Table 3 converted with conversion factor for rice (output foregon3) of 1.323.  See Appendix 1 of Annex 13..
( H



MALI
MOPTI 11 RICE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1977                 1978                        1979                         1980                         1981                         1982
_ C _ NID J F M A M _ _ A S O N D _ F M       J _ ASF|M|A|M|J|JIA|S|O| ND  J |M AM  J i |A|S|N                           J F M A M J J A S|O  N D
5~~~~~                 ~~ A                         AS    J      F   Alm Jn IJAII  N D                      A SINI J1      F M A4 Mt Jt    -,
E N3//               /   /  /   '                  /  /    /
NEGOTIATIONS             /      / /                   7 /7/  /                                                          //                  /   / /                      /   / /   /
BOARD PRESENTATION       / ///                                                             /7                                                      7 
TENDER                   CIVIL WORKS I                          G /D              /N BE S I    IN H
AWARD CONTRACT(SI        /   / /   7                 7 7   / 7 /                  / /   / /                      7 7   7 /                  /  7/ / /                    /o  4n7
MOBILIZATION/                                               ""                           "
EXECUTION CIVIL W.       / / //                              77/                           /
- EXISTING POLDERS       / ///7// //7/ //7/ /// // // // /
- NEW POLDERS            /                                             40a       // //            400a          //        /    2Oh                                                
DEEP PLOUGH-ING                                                       77"                                                 7                                                       
7   / /  /      / /   / /        ~~~5300 ha  7                 10 ha      /   / /          2900 ha     / ///                                 
-EXISTING POLDERS      /      //                     7     7                 I7I/ / /                                                     / / 7I                       / ' 
-NEWPOLDERS  /   /7    7   /7    7/7                    "~~~~~~~~~~'  ~~  2400ha       //      "      400 /h7                      2100 ha                /
BUILDINGS                                                             7
7Y//  /7                        /7  //7   7/7
7/   /7
tF777" RAINS AND F/O/D
1) UPLEENARYCIILWOKSIN  XITIG OLDRSCANO/B SPCIIE  IN                               7/C/A7/S/
7/   /7   7/   /7                   /   /7~~~~~~~~~~~Wol Bnk170






IBRD 12839
5e00                                                         4°30'                     N                   /                 A      O0     To G.o
15°000
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MOPTI II RICE PROJECT
Project Area                                                                                                                                    9  9
.E-iSt,f Polders
- 0'..'- New Polde-                                                                                                                                       3
~-~Ri-te
M- RMN  l00 6ohalt or teritt,,
_     Non All Weather 6W and Not Perm-eRnt                                                                                           /
-14'30  0    5G I  0 15   2           00  25                                                                                   r         *0
-14°30   0  S            'KILMETERS    '<                          S    $        //t                          t                                           ;      eod1o0
/ 2    4) |                   ,            0                       /                         ¢ ;0g ,,, 3                                         4
6    MOPTI SOUTH
-14400'   < /(   0                       /                           >                 Srlerr     D        s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
MOPTI  I  POLOERS  MOPTI  IT  NEW    eoLdEDS
MOPTI NOLDRTS      f        1 SPRE - MAL                                        D                                                O                REPF        ODD.  M2A U     RT
3SoFARA                     t3TIROGUEL         E                                                       3U         /9          ~        -     _                  r     L 
5 013E-TEMEKO               to TOROKORO       I                                ,Y       / P                   <~_                                              vs       i.
6 MOPTI SOUTH                                        ,                      /      _      4gGU                                                  , -            .        \    
D SARANTOMO -SYN 8mmoou  > /   4
9DlIAMIIAKOUROU                                                                                   t                                     , 8R -                 gO      CAT        GHN
tOBOJUGOULA noxt artoat Mooni 11   soco '                                         r0F T eooo & Oooao 3                                                                            PRL 9
" z  5.0..-I.ye  ~       ARIL19,



