CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 753 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Mopti Rice Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 8, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 753 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1977, between the REPUBLIC OF
MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to receive from the French Republic
acting through its Fonds d'Aide et de Coopfration (hereinafter
called FAC) a grant in an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to
assist in financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the following polders: Dia,
Bougoula, Diambakourou, Ibetemi, Karbaye, North Mopti, Sarantomo-
Syn, Sofara, Soufouroulaye, South Mopti, Tenenkou, Saremala,
Torokoro, Ouro-Nema and Tiroguel;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "ORM" means Op&ation Riz Mopti, established within
the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development pursuant to Decree
No. 34/PG-RM dated March 25, 1972;
(c)  "SCAER" means the Soci&t6 de Crdit Agricole et
d'Equipement Rural established by Executive Decree of the Borrower
dated April 14, 1971; and
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open the Special Account in the Banque de D6veloppement du Mali
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Disburse-
ments from the Special Account shall be made exclusively to
finance the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the cur-
rency of the Borrower not exceeding $600,000 equivalent and shall
thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, further withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower for payments made
out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligi-
ble for financing under the Development Credit Agreement, but only


﻿- 3 -
to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with
any amount on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $600,000.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Special Account such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that the payment was made as provided in paragraph (b) of this
Section.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure
not eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to
paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association and prior to any further deposit in
the Special Account by the Association,    deposit in the Special
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
when the Association shall have determined that all further with-
drawals can be made under Section 5.03 of the General Conditions
or when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account shall
have reached the equivalent of $14,400,000, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Credit shall
follow procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the prircipal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1988, and ending October 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part G of the
Project and cause the ORM to carry out the other Parts thereof,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering, economic and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and other
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request,


﻿- 5 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. In the allocation of land in the Project Area,
the Borrower shall ensure that (a) priority be given to farmers
and that (b) no more than 2 ha of the new polders developed under
the Project be allocated per active male family member.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that no new farm
machinery be procured under the Project until the Association
shall have been satisfied that existing machinery is being
adequately utilized.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the ORM,
SCAER and the other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The accounts of the rice mill at S6vard shall be
kept separate from those of the ORM and no resources of the ORM
shall be used to cover any deficit of the mill.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the ORM to: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,


﻿-6-
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the ORM and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause ORM to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to raise the capacity of the rice mills in the Project
Area to accommodate the increased production.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the producer
price of paddy be adjusted from time to time as necessary to
maintain farmers' incentives.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall maintain the scheduled
prices (baremes) for the collection, bagging and transport of
paddy, and the allowance for losses, at a level which will cover
the costs to the ORM of such services.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall continue its current policy
of progressively raising the development levy on paddy until a
levy of 240 kg per ha is reached by the campaign of 1982-1983.
Section 4.07. The cost of any subsidy granted to farmers for
the purchase of agricultural equipment, fertilizers and insecti-
cides under Part H of the Project shall be borne by the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, subject to subparagraph
(iii) of this Section:


﻿-7-
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(ii) Any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the maturity provided in the agreement
therefor.
(iii) The foregoing shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termina-
tion or prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events   are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Association has been notified by FAC that any
condition precedent to the first utilization by the Borrower of
funds from the participation of the French Republic in the Project
has been fulfilled.
(b) the Special Account has been opened.
Section 6.02. The date March 15, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section.12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist8re de Finances et du Commerce
Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       972559
Koulouba
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ Alpha Diaw
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                  90%
(a) Polders, except         4,950,000
Ouro-N6ma and
Tiroguel
(b) Deep ploughing,         1,350,000
except polders
of Ouro-N6ma,
Tiroguel, Bou-
goula and Saran-
tomo-Syn II
(c) Stores, work-           1,260,000
shops, offices,
housing and
training centers
(2) Vehicles, ferries and        1,980,000        90%
equipment for Part E
of the Project
(3) Management consultants'      1,260,000        90%
services for ORM
(4) Rural works department         900,000        90%
for Part G of the
Project
(5) Engineering and                500,000        100%
supervision


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Operating costs of ORM         700,000       15%
including salaries
(7) Agricultural credit            450,000       100%
for Part H of the
Project
(8) Initial deposit in             600,000
Special Account
(9) Unallocated                  1,050,000
TOTAL       15,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Credit may, by notice-to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Credit.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an _ggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $70,000 may be
made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after October 15, 1977.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that


﻿- 12 -
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Asso-
ciation are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
..........


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the development of rice cultivation in the
Project Area and strengthening of the ORM to benefit some 90,000
inhabitants. The Project includes the following Parts:
Part A:
construction of four new polders with a total area of about
8,800 ha, namely, Saremala, Torokoro, Ouro-N6ma and
Tiroguel;
Part B:
improvements to the following polders: Mopti Nord, Mopti Sud,
Soufouroulaye, Ib6t6mi, Sarantomo-Syn I, Dia-Tenenkou and
Sofara;
Part C:
deep ploughing of the new polders included in Part A above
and of the polders of Bougoula and Sarantomo-Syn II, as well
as 10,200 ha of the polders included in the Project financed
by the credit granted to the Borrower by the Association
by agreement dated January 6, 1972;
Part D:
construction of storage facilities for paddy and for farm
inputs and equipment; construction of workshops, offices,
staff houses, and two training centers;
Part E:
procurement of farm machinery, maintenance equipment,
vehicles, two ferries and workshop and office equipment;
Part F:
establishment and operation of an adult literacy program
for villages, of a. training program for extension services
and of a program of applied research;


﻿- 14 -
Part G:
expansion of the Offices of the Research Bureau of the Rural
Works Department of the Ministry of Rural Development of the
Borrower, including the procurement of equipment therefor,
training of staff abroad through travel grants; carrying out
studies for the preparation of future irrigation projects;
and
Part H:
purchase of agricultural equipment, fertilizers and insec-
ticides to be made available to farmers in the Project Area
under a program of agricultural credits.
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 1983.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement
consistent with appropriate technical standards and procurement
practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of houses, offices, work-
shops and storage facilities, as well as for the purchase of
items of equipment and furniture up to a contract value equiv-
alent to $50,000, may be awarded following competitive bidding
advertised locally.
2.   Contracts of a value less than the equivalent of $20,000
may be awarded on the basis of quotations from local suppliers.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Mali may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 16 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mali
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Mali equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Mali.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 17 -
D.   Review of Frocurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Assocition shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
delivery to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to delivery to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such


﻿- 18 -
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


