Docunmt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC1AL USE ONLY
Report No. 11522
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
OIL AND GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3391-IN)
JANUARY 4, 1993
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCYQEOUIVALENTS
(As of May 15, 1992)
Curreny Unit   =      Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00         =     US$ 0.037 (approx.)
US$1.00         =     Rs 26.70
WEII AND MEASURES
1.1 million cubic meters of gas   =  37 million cubic feet of gas
1.2 barrels of oil
1.3 ton of oil                     7.3 barrels of oil
ABBREVIATIONS
BCM              -     billion cubic meters
CCFF             -     Compensatory and Contingency
Financing Facility
GOI              -     Government of India
GOR              -     Gas-oil ratio
MMCMD            -     million cubic meters per day
MW               -     megawatt
OIL              -     Oil India Ltd.
ONGC             -     Oil and Natural Gas Commission
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
-fice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 4, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
Oil and Gas Sector Development Loan (Loan 3391-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report
on India - Oil and Gas Sector Development Loan (Loan 3391-IN)" prepared by the
South Asia Regional Office. The Borrower did not contribute to the report.
This quick disbursing loan was speedily designed and approved to
complement the Gas Flaring Reduction Loan (Loan 3364-IN), approved in June, 1991.
The rationale was to help the Government finance oil imports in compensation for
reducing oil output of the Bombay High field. The policy objective was to get
the Government to permit and encourage the national oil company (ONGC) to enter
into joint ventures with international oil companies for the development of
existing oil fields.
In its letter of development policy, GOI stated that ONGC would take
steps to enter into joint ventures and to invite international oil companies to
bid for a number of highly prospective exploration areas. This bidding process
took place and foreign companies did submit proposals. To date, the Government
has failed to act on any of these proposals and therefore the project outcome is
rated as unsatisfactory.
An audit of the project is planned in conjunction with an audit of the
Gas Flaring Reduction Loan.
Attachment
This document hes a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the perforAmnce otf
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Sank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
OIL AND GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3391-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ...........................................                                                                                i
Evaluation Summary ............................................                                                                    ii
Background ............................................  ii
Objectives ............................................                                                                ii
Implementation Experience ............................................  ii
Results ............................................. i i
Sustainability and Lessons Learnt ...........................................                                              i
Part I: Project Review  from  the Bank's Perspective ............................................ 
Project Identity ............................................ 
Background ......................................................                                                      1
Project Objectives and Description ..........................................3
Project Design and Organization ........................................ .                                            . 3
Project Implementation .............................................. 3
Project Results ............................................. 3
Project Sustainability .............................................4
Bank Performance ............................................                                                          A
Borrower Perfonnance ............................................                                                      A
Project Relationship ............................................                                                      A
Project Documentation and Data .............................................  5
Part II: Project Review   from   the  Borrower's Perspective .............................................                         6
Part m: Statistical Information ............................................                                                       7
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ............................................                                          7
Project Timetable ............................................ 9
Loan Disbursements ............................................                                                         9
Project Implementation .............................................9
Project Costs and Financing ............................................ 9
Project Results ............................................                                                            9
Status of Covenants ............................................                                                        10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
OIL AND GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3391-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the (first) Oil and Gas Sector
Development Loan for India (Loan 3391-IN) for an amount of US$150 million equivalent. The
principal objective of the loan was to reduce the pressure on the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission to continue producing oil from high gas-oil ratio wells in contradiction to sound
reservoir management practices by providing finance for oil imports. The loan was approved in
July 1991. The final disbursement was made in December 20,1991. The loan closes July 30,1992.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
OIL AND GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3391-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
The loan complemented the financing provided under the Gas Flaring Reduction
project (Ln. 3364-IN). It made it possible for India to meet part of the external financing needs
caused by the increase in oil imports resulting from the closure of oil wells with exceedingly
high gas-oil ratios (GOR) in the Bombay High oil field. More specifically, it supported the
Govemnment's measures to attract private sector companies to participate in the accelerated
development of India's oil and gas reserves, and ONGCs ongoing efforts to improve the
management of the reservoirs of India's largest oil field, the Bombay High.
The Government requested support for this project, at a time when India's
foreign exchange reserves had reached an all time low of about two weeks of imports. Without
this loan the Oil and Natural Gas Commission would have been under tremendous pressure to
increase oil production even from sick oil wells causing additional damage to a field that
suffers the effects of overproduction.
Objectives
The principal objectives of this project were: (a) to provide financing for oil
imports in order to reduce the pressure on ONGC to continue producing from high gas-oil ratio
wells and (b) to assist ONGC in increasing oil output with the help of direct foreign
investments. The main condition of the project was therefore that the Government take a
decision to permit ONGC to enter into joint ventures with international oil companies for the
development of existing oil fields.
Implementation Experience
The project was implemented with only minor delays. The loan was fully
disbursed within five months from the date of effectiveness, well before the closing date of the
project.
Results
The two main objectives were achieved. ONGC did close about 40 oil wells
with gas-oil ratios of above 700 and carried out well-workovers. The assistance provided by
the project has also served to initiate a dialogue with GOI about the financing of its high
priority oil and gas development programs. In that context the Government took the decision, in
principle, to permit the Oil and Natural Gas Commission to enter into joint ventures with
international oil companies for the development of existing oil fields.



- iii -
Sustainability and Lessons Learnt
The project triggered the implementation of a program of well-workovers and
other remedial measures to maintain the productive capacity of India's largest oil field.
ONGC will continue to implement this program even after this project has been completed.
However, the project has yet to achieve one of its longer-term objectives, to
encourage foreign direct investment in the Indian oil industry. While the Government took a
decision to permit ONGC to enter into joint ventures with intemational oil companies, the
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has not yet acted on several prposals for joint ventures
for the development of existing fields.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
OIL AND GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3391-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name:                     Oil and Gas Sector Development Loan
Loan Nunberr              3391-IN
RVP Unit:                 South Asia Region
Country:                  India
Sector:                   Energy
Ba3round
1.1          Redressing macroeconomic imbalances and continuing the liberalization and
deregulation of the economy have been important priorities for every government in recent
years, but political difficulties have slowed progress on both fronts. Despite three successive
budgets calling for reductions in the central government's deficit, fiscal imbalances worsened.
The Gulf crisis accentuated India's macroeconomic imbalances. World oil price hikes increased
India's oil import bill by about $1200 million in 1990/91. Lost remittances, debt repayments,
and forgone receipts from exports to the Gulf region, in addition to costs of repatriating Indian
nationals working in Iraq and Kuwait cost India another $740 mnillion. The current account
deficit reached an estimated $9.9 billion (3.5% of GDP), up from $8A billion (3.2% of GDP) in
1989/90. At the end of 1990/91, foreign exchange reserves had fallen to $23 billion (equivalent
to one month of imports). The Gulf crisis, combined with political instability, led to a severe
erosion of India's creditworthiness in the international capital markets, a development which
has compounded the country's liquidity problems.
1.2          In response to the Gulf crisis, the Government introduced a number of
stabilization measures. A surcharge of about 25% was imposed on domestic petroleum product
prices (on top of an 11% price increase in March 1990); this surcharge has remained in place
despite the fall in international oil prices. In addition, selected taxes were increased and
expenditure restraints effected. These measures are estimated to have reduced the fiscal
deficit by about 1% of GDP in 1990/91. On the monetary front, interest rates were increased and
liquidity requirements tightened several times during the course of 1990/91 and a partial
liberalization of interest rates was introduced in September 1990. On the external front, the
Government sought to contain imports through an accelerated depredation of the rupee.
1.3          At the time this project was appraised there was a broad consensus emerging in
India that future growth depended on a prompt resolution of the liquidity crisis and restoration



-2 -
of macroeconomic equilibrium. Stabilization of the economy alone, while essential, would not,
however, be sufficient for dealing with the current economic crisis. Broad-based structural
reforms to improve the efficiency, productivity and competitiveness of the economy are
essential to achieving the export growth required to strengthen India's creditworthiness and to
support the future growth and development of the economy.
1.4          Considering the size of its economy and its rapidly growing population, India is
only modestly endowed with energy resources. Despite allocating almost a third of its public
investment resources to the development of these resources, India depends heavily on oil
imports to meet its domestic energy needs. Production has increased dramatically over the past
15 years, primarily due to the discovery of the Bombay High and its satellite fields in the
early 1970s. India has been able to reduce its dependence on imported oil from about 80% in the
early 1970s to less than 40% in the early 1980s.
1.5          These fields now account for about 60% of indigenous oil production. After
increasing at a rate of about 20% a year during the late 1970s and the first half of the 1980s, oil
output from the Bombay High fields reached a plateau in 1984/85. Delays in the
implementation of measures to maintain reservoir pressures (e.g. through water injection) have
led to a sharp increase in the output of associated gas. To avoid permanent damage to the
reservoirs ONGC has adopted a program under which oil wells whose output of associated gas
exceeds a certain level will be closed. This will reduce oil production from the Bombay High
oil field by about 2A. million tons a year. To restore optimum oil production levels and thus
reduce the risk of a sharp increase of oil imports, ONGC will need to use capital-intensive
enhanced oil recovery technology as well as substantial investments for the development of
smaller satellite fields.
1.6          A preliminary report on the prospects of India's oil production, carried out by
the Bank, recommended that ONGC close all oil wells with a GOR exceeding 400 v/v (on a
volume for volume basis), in order to minimize further damage to the reservoirs of the Bombay
High oil field. A report by the Bombay High Review Committee confirmed the basic thrust of
the Bank's findings. On the basis of these recommendations ONGC has adopted a program of
shutting-in of wells with a high gas-oil ratio. This has resulted in a temporary reduction of
ONGC's overall oil production by 3.9 million tons in 1991/92.
1.7          A field-by-field review of oil reserves conduded that indigenous oil production
would reach a peak of 42 million tons in 1996/97, and then gradually decline to about 38 million
tons in 2000/01 assuming that current exploration efforts yield no rnajor discoveries. Crude oil
imports would then increase to 36 million tons (equivalent to US$7.9 billion) in 2000/01. To
maintain the present level of self sufficiency, indigenous oil production would have to reach 51
million tons in 1995/96 and 67 million tons in 2000/01. Such an increase would require
substantial additional investments in enhanced oil recovery, the accelerated development of
undeveloped fields and a major increase in exploration activities. The total cost of the
implementation of these measures over the next five years is estimated at about US$10 billion
of which about US$7 billion would be in foreign exchange.
1.8          In order to keep the gap between indigenous oil production and demand within
manageable limits, the Government designed a medium term program for the oil and gas sector
based on significant policy and program changes. The main thrust of this program is directed at
improving the operational efficiency of the sectoral entities and market-based resource



mobilzation. Critical first steps include improvement of the management of the Bombay High
reservoirs and opening the sector to foreign investment in exploration and development. To this
end the Government has adopted a policy which would permit ONGC and OIL to enter into
joint ventures with international oil companies for the development of existing oil fields in
order to accelerate indigenous oil production.
Project Objectives and Description
2.1          The project had two objectives:
(a)   To assist the Government in defraying the cost of additional oil imports due to
production shortfalls in the Bombay High oil field. The shortfalls result from
the implementation of the shutting-in of oil wells as in line with the Bank's
recommendations
(b)   to assist ONGC in increasing oil output with the help of direct foreign
investments.
Project Design and Organization
3.1          The project was designed as a fast-disbursing adjustment operation that would
complement the investments and measures taken under the Gas Flaring Reduction Project. The
basic aim of both projects was the same, to support the Government's efforts to reduce its
dependence on oil imports by expanding domestic production and more efficient use of its
hydrocarbon resources. While the Gas Flaring Reduction Project provided finance for the use of
gas resources that would otherwise be wasted, this project was more directly concerned with
increasing India's oil production. The basic concept of the project was to enable the Government
to ease the pressure on ONGC to maximize oil production at a time of a serious foreign exchange
crisis. By providing foreign exchange for oil imports ONGC was able to marginally reduce its
output without putting further pressure on India's oil supply situation. The loan amnount of
US$150 million was released in a single tranche after the Government provided the Bank with
the requested Letters of Development Policy.
Project Implementation
4.1          The project was implemented by the Indian Oil Corporation, which is the only
importer of crude oil and oil products. The loan financed 100% of the CIF cost in foreign currency
of crude oil and oil products imports. Retroactive financing was provided in an amount of US$30
million for expenditures incurred after March 31, 1991, that is within four months of the date of
loan signing. Only minor delays were encountered in the implementation of the project. The loan
was fully disbursed within five months from the date of effectiveness.
Project Results
5.1          The loan financed the imports of close to one million tons of crude oil and oil
products ONGC did close about 40 oil wells with gas-oil ratios of above 700 and carried out
well-workovers. The assistance provided by the project has also served to initiate a dialogue
with GOI about the financing of its high priority oil and gas development programs. In that
context the Government took the decision, in principle, to permit the Oil and Natural Gas



-4 -
Commission to enter into joint ventures with international oil companies for the development of
existing oil fields.
5.2          However, the project has yet to achieve one of its longer-term objectives, to
encourage foreign direct investment in the Indian oil industry. While the Government took a
decision to permit ONGC to enter into joint ventures with international oil companies, the
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has not yet acted on several proposals for joint ventures
for the development of existing fields.
Project Sustainability
6.1          While the basic concept of the project proved to be sound, the scale of such an
operation would need to be increased substantially, if the damage caused to oil fields as a
result of overproduction were to be remedied completely.
6.2          India's resource position will most likely remain strained in the years ahead.
Further declines of indigenous oil production will force the Government to increase foreign
exchange expenditures for oil imports. Other critical imports, in particular, capital goods
would be crowded out, and there would be a considerable risk that this would under nine the
Government's macro-economic reform efforts. The fastest and most efficient way to boost
indigenous oil production would be through joint ventures with international oil companies.
However, these companies will only invest in India, if the business environment is condudve to
do so. Further assistance to the Government for the development of indigenous energy resources
should require strong commitment to reforms of oil and gas sector policies and corresponding up-
front action.
Bank Performance
7.1           This project was part of a larger intemational effort of assisting the Indian
Government in avoiding a worsening of a foreign exchange crisis that was triggered by the Gulf
war in 1991. The processing of this project took less than three weeks. While no essential steps
in the processing of this project were omitted, all concemed departments in the Bank assisted in
the preparation by reducing allotted times for review of project documents. In a way this project
provides an example of the Bank's ability to respond to a borrower's needs without
compromising quality and essential internal approvals.
7.2          The appraisal of the Gas Flaring Reduction Project provided the necessary
inputs for the preparation of this project.
Borrower Performance
8.1          The Govemrnment cooperated fully with the Bank's requests for information.
Project Relationship
9.1          The Bank's relationship with the Government and the implementing agency,
the Indian Oil Corporation, has been good.



-5 -
Project Documentation and Data
10.1         The legal documents and the MOP/Staff Appraisal Report were well prepared
and sufficient for the purposes of this project. The information and data that have been
assembled during the brief period of project implementation made it possible to draft this PCR
without recourse to Regional Files.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
OIL AND GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3391-IN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FRON THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III vith the request to prepare
Part II but no reply was received.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
OIL AND GAS SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3391-IN)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Purpose              Year of      Status
Approval
Gas Flaring Reduction To eliminate the flaring of associated    1991  Under
Project (Ln. 3364-N)  gas in the Bombay High oilfield;       Implementation
improve the management of the
reservoir in order to arrest decline of oil
production and optimize ultimate
recovery of hydrocarbons. Also to reduo
energy shortages and improve efficieng
of energy in India's Western Region and
promote involvement of the private
sector in the oil and gas industry in
India.



- 8 -
iNDIA ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Data
Amounts (US$ million)
Original    Disbursed      Canceled      Repaid    Outstanding
Loan No. 3391-N                   150.0          -             -         150.0
Original Loan Dates       Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum              July 2, 1991                July 2, 1991
Letter of Development Policy       July 12,1991               July 12, 1991
Negotiations                       July 12,1991                July 12, 1991
Board Approval                     July 23,1991                July 23,1991
Loan Agreement                     July 24,1991                July 24, 1991
Effectiveness                      July 29, 1991               July 29, 1991
L  oanCosing                       July 30 1992                July 30 1992
Actual Completion                December 31,1991           December 20,1991
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY92
(i) Planned                              150.0
(ii) Actual                              150.0
(iii) (ii) as % or (i)                   150.0
MISSION DATA
Month, Year  No. of Weeks No. of Persons  Staff Weeks     Date of
Report
Preparation)       -             3             1             3           07/91
Appraisal  1    01/91 */                                                 07/91
Supervision   I
Completion   )
O/ Jointly with Appraisal for Gas Flaring Reduction Project (Ln. 3364-1N)
O/ No supervision or completion mnission were carried out.



-9-
Projec Timetable
Item            Date Planned        Date Revised        Data Actual
Identification
Preparation
Preappraisal
Appraisal Mission         01/91*/                                   1/910/
Loan Negotiations         07/91                                    07/91
Board Approval            07/91                                    07/91
Loan Signature            07/91                                    07/91
Loan Effectiveness        07/91                                    07/91
Loan aosing               07/92                                    07/92
Loan Comnpletion           12/91                                   12/91
*/Jointly with appraisal for the Gas Flaring Reduction Project (Ln. 3364-N)
Lan  inbumenen
Disbursements could have been greatly accelerated by the use of a negative list
instead of limiting the financing to crude oil and oil product imports. Initially, an amount of
US$ 30 million for retro-active financing of oil imports was released in August 1991. The
balance of the loan (US$120 million) was disbursed during December, 1991. The final
disbursement was nade on December 20,1991.
Project Implementalon
The project was implemented by the Indian Oil Corporation, which is the only
importer of crude oil and oil products. The loan financed 100% of the CIF cost in foreign currency
of crude oil and oil products imports. Retroactive financing was provided in an amount of US$30
million for expenditures incurred after March 31, 1991, that is within five months of the date of
loan signing.
Project Costs and Fiancing
The loan of US$150 million financed about 50% of the cost of additional oil imports
required to compensate the shortfall in the oil output from the Bombay High oil field in
1991/92. The shortfall in production was to a large extent due to ONGCs decision to shut in oil
wells with unacceptably high gas-oil ratios.
Project Results
The loan financed the imports of dose to one million tons of crude oil and oil
products. ONGC did close about 40 oil wells with gas-oil ratios of above 700 and curried out
well-workovers. The assistance provided by the project has also served to initiate a dialogue
with GOI about the financing of its high priority oil and gas development programs. In that
context the Government took the decision, in principle, to permit the Oil and Natural Gas



- 10 -
Commission to enter into joint ventures with international oil companies for the development of
existing oil fields.
However, the project has yet to achieve one of its longer-term objectives, to
encourage foreign direct investment in the Indian oil industry. While the Government took a
decision to permit ONGC to enter into joint ventures with international oil companies, the
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has not yet acted on several proposals for joint ventures
for the development of existing fields.
Status of Covenants
In its Letters of Development Policy the Government informed the Bank that it had decided to
enable the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and Oil India Ltd. to enter into jDint ventures for
the development of existing oil fields. The Government has therefore formally met the nain
condition for this project.



