Page  1
                                                         August 23, 1991
Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
            Re:   Loan No. 3391-IN
                  (Oil and Gas Sector Development Loan)
      We refer to the Loan Agreement (Oil and Gas Sector Development
Loan) between India and the Bank dated July 24, 1991 and to the request
of the Government of India conveyed through the Executive Director of
India on August 22, 1991 for the opening of a Special Account to serve
the purposes of the Loan.  The Bank is pleased to agree to your request.
Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.    Section 1.02 shall read:
      "    Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
      several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
      to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
      and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)  "Gas Flaring Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated
      July 11, 1991 between the Bank and Oil and Natural Gas Commission
      for the Gas Flaring Reduction Project; and
      (b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
      2.02 (b) of this Agreement."
2.    Section 2.02 is re-numbered Section 2.02 (a) and sub-section 2.02
(b) is added as follows:
      "     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
      open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Reserve
      Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
      Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
      made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
      Agreement."
3.    Section 3.03 (b) (i) is amended to read:
      "    (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
      (a) of this Section including those of the Special Account for each
      fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
      principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
      to the Bank;"
4.    A new paragraph 7 is added to Schedule 3 as follows:
      "     Subject to the provisions of paragraph 6 above, where
      payments for any contract are to be made out of the Special
      Account, two conformed copies of the contract together with the
      other information required to be furnished to the Bank shall be
      furnished to the Bank as part of evidence to be furnished pursuant
      to Paragraph 4 of schedule 4 to this Agreement."
5.    A new Schedule 4 is added as per attachment.
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing the form
of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to
us.
                             Very truly yours,
Page  2
                                Jan Wijnand
                              Acting Director
                             India Department
CONFIRMED
INDIA
By
      Authorized Representative
                                                               SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of crude oil and oil products required for the
Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$70,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account  has  been duly  opened,  withdrawals  of  the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,  the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amounts or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                  such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                  of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits in the
Special Account if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
Page  3
      (b)   Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;  (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,  the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
