Document of
The World Bank    FIL E  0C y
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo.P-2749-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 26, 1980
Thb documnt ha a restriced ditibution and may be used by reipents only in the perfornmae of
their ofcial dutis. Its cotents may not otherwise be disdosed witbout World DBnk authoriaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Calendar 1979       March 15, 1980
(average)
US$1            Ch$37.25             Ch$39.00
Ch$1           US$0.0268             US$0.0256
Ch$1,000       US$26.846             US$25.64
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
EMOS        -       Empresa Metropolitana de Obras Sanitarias
(Santiago Sanitary Works Company)
ESVAL       -       Empresa de Obras Sanitarias de la Quinta Region
(Valparaiso Sanitary Works Company)
MOP         -       Ministerio de Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Public Works)
ODEPLAN     -       Oficina de Planificacion Nacional
(National Planning Office)
PAHO        -       Pan American Health Organization
SENDOS      -       Servicio Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
(National Sanitary Works Service)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Chile
Beneficiaries:         Empresa Metropolitana de Obras Sanitarias (EMOS) and
Servicio Nacional de Obras Sanitarias (SENDOS)
Amount:                US$38 million including US$27 million for EMOS and
US$11 million for SENDOS.
Terms:                 Repayment in 15 years, including three years of
grace, at 8.25 percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms to
Beneficiaries:       Same as those of the Bank loan.  EMOS and SENDOS would
bear the foreign exchange risk on the amounts on-lent
to them.
Project Description:  The project includes two major components.  First,
the EMOS subproject which would benefit about 686,000
people in the Santiago Metropolitan Region through
improvement and expansion of water treatment and
distribution facilities, construction of new wells and
storage tanks, a leak detection program, installation of
53,000 new house connections and 120,000 water meters,
acquisition of maintenance and operating equipment, and
a sewerage master plan to cover Santiago's needs to the
year 2000. Second, the nationwide SENDOS subproject,
which would benefit some 1.8 million people by providing
a chlorination program to improve water quality in 36
cities, a comprehensive metering program throughout the
country, a leak detection program in 17 cities and
technical assistance for institution building. About 53
percent of the beneficiaries of the EMOS program and 21
percent of the beneficiaries of the SENDOS program would
be poor consumers whose incomes are less than one-third
the national average.
Special Risks:         This project faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
EMOS Component
Improvement of water
production and
distribution                  40.25    12.70    52.95
House connections, metering
and leak detection             6.27      4.11    10.38
Operating and maintenance
equipment                      0.02      0.83      0.85
Consultant services              3.71      0.42      4.13
Sub-Total                  50.25    18.06    68.31
SENDOS Component
Technical assistance             0.11      0.54      0.65
Chlorination program             0.22      1.29      1.51
Metering and leak detection    2.64        6.42      9.48
Sub-Total                   2.95      8.69    11.64
Base Cost                  53.20    26.75    79.95
Physical contingencies           7.80      3.49    11.29
Price contingencies             20.64      7.76    28.40
Total Project Cost         81.64    38.00   119.64
Financing Plan:                                      Local     Foreign       Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Bank Loan                      -          38.00      38.00
EMOS                         77.64          -        77.64
SENDOS                        4.00          -         4.00
Total Project Cost    81.64          38.00    119.64
Estimated
Disbursements:       Bank FY:         1981     1982      1983      1984    1985
--------------(US$ Millions)-----------
Annual          3.5       13.6      11.9      6.6      2.4
Cumulative      3.5       17.1     29.0      35.6    38.0
Rate of Return:         12.4 percent for the EMOS subproject, which accounts for
85 percent of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 2340d-CH dated March 24, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$38 million to help
finance a water supply project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. Of
the proceeds of the loan, US$27 million would be relent to the Empresa
Metropolitana de Obras Sanitarias and US$11 million to the Servicio Nacional
de Obras Sanitarias under the same terms and conditions as the proposed
loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report (2390-CH) entitled "Chile:  An Economy in
Transition" was issued on June 21, 1979. The following paragraphs are based
on the conclusions reached in this report and on the findings of a brief
mission sent to Santiago in January 1980 to review the economic situation and
prospects. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Evolution of the Economy
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments sought to reduce Chile's vulnerability to world market fluctuations,
accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable distribution of
income. Following a policy of import-substitution, Governments increasingly
intervened in the determination of prices, erected high protective barriers
against foreign competition, offered special tax and other incentives to
investment and entered directly into production and distribution activities
while intervening in the allocation of credit and foreign exchange. Unfor-
tunately the results were not consistent with expectations. The economy often
experienced periods of slow growth, rapid inflation and balance of payments
problems. Chile's foreign debt burden grew, its agricultural and industrial
sectors became inefficient and its dependence on copper continued.
4.        Despite the overall trend described above, periodic efforts were
made to reform the tax system, dampen inflation, simplify public administration
and otherwise improve the allocation of resources. However, when the present
Government took power in September 1973, inflation was the highest in the
hemisphere, real wages were one-half to one-third below 1969 levels, and net
international reserves were negative by US$230 million. Chile's foreign debt
payments were in arrears, production had been declining since 1971, the
deficit of the Central Government alone exceeded 20 percent of GDP, the money
supply was out of control, the financial system in shambles, and the exchange
rate grossly overvalued.



- 2 -
5.        Since then the Chilean economy has undergone a major transformation.
The Central Government's budget deficit has been eliminated and the rate of
inflation has been reduced substantially. Virtually all prices, including
interest rates, have been progressively freed; most tax and subsidy distor-
tions to relative prices have been removed; tariff and non-tariff import
barriers have been virtually eliminated; and the exchange rate was massively
devalued in 1973 and thereafter maintained at a level that encouraged exports.
Exchange controls were largely eliminated and foreign investment encouraged.
In addition, major reforms have been introduced in the tax structure, public
sector budgetary process and banking legislation; and most of the enterprises
taken over by the previous government have been returned to the private
sector. Many of these structural reforms were consistent with advice long
offered Chile by the Bank and other international institutions.
6.        The transformation, which amounts to a total restructuring of the
economy, was complicated by difficult short-term conditions. In 1975 real
copper earnings fell 50 percent as world prices dropped to their lowest
real level in two decades. The resource loss to the economy of the copper
price drop was equivalent to about 10 percent of the 1974 GDP. Additional
resources, equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP, were withdrawn from the economy
in the form of net capital and interest payments to foreign lenders. Because
of the severe foreign exchange crisis and continuing high levels of infla-
tion, the Government introduced a drastic austerity program in April 1975
and the Chilean economy experienced its worst depression since the 1930s.
Real GDP in 1975 fell more than 11 percent and open unemployment reached
20 percent of the labor force of Greater Santiago. The depression bottomed
out during the first quarter of 1976 and Chile, with its first current account
surplus in twenty years, was able not only to repay its creditors but also to
increase reserves substantially. By 1977, GDP in real terms had returned to
1971-72 levels.
7.        In many respects the economy has responded well to the reforms.
Real economic growth in 1977-1979 was double the 1940-1970 average. The
rate of inflation was brought down from 400 percent in 1973 to 30-40 percent
in recent years. The balance of payments position of Chile has improved
markedly. The value of agricultural and manufactured exports grew more
than sevenfold between 1973 and 1978. By the end of 1979, net international
reserves totaled US$1.5 billion, representing about three months of imports.
By 1977 real wages and salaries had recovered to their 1970 levels and then
rose rapidly as worker productivity increased. This economic turnaround was
acccomplished despite relatively low real copper prices until mid-1979 and a
heavy debt service burden. Despite this progress, the unemployment rate has
remained high and investment has been slow to respond to the increase in
economic activity because of high real interest rates.
8.        The hardships caused by the 1975-76 depression were borne by most
Chileans. Lack of data, the complexity of past controls, and the massive
changes in price levels and relative prices make it difficult to reach any
firm conclusions on the impact that these fundamental policy changes have had
on the overall distribution of income in Chile. The Bank's recent economic
eport concludes that each individual has been affected differently. In any
xftt, it would be hard to overstate the enormous material sacrifice endured,
-ticularly by the unemployed.



- 3-
Unemployment and Social Programs
9.        The average annual unemployment rate for Greater Santiago has
remained between 13 and 14 percent since dropping from 20 percent during
the 1975/76 depression. In September 1979, in spite of rapid job generation
the unemployment rate stood at 12.5 percent. Between June 1977 and June 1979
employment grew nearly 12 percent. The continued high unemployment rate
reflects a combination of factors including the growth of the potential
work force, increased labor force participation rates and greater frictional
unemployment caused by rapid structural changes. The Government has responded
to increased unemployment with a series of measures: an emergency employment
program which employed 7 percent of the work force during the depths of the
depression, a program of wage subsidies, reform of unemployment insurance, and
an expanded manpower and training program. Members of Chile's economic team
believe that continued high levels of economic growth and continued reduction
in the high social security contributions by employers will bring the unemploy-
ment rate down to historical levels (about 6 percent) within a few more years.
The reduced social security contributions have been supplemented by increased
transfers from the budget, allowing social security benefits to remain unchanged.
10.       The Government has also undertaken significant changes in Chile's
public social programs. The present Administration views its role as that of
assuring equal opportunity through access to education and health services.
Its strategy is to expand employment and real wages through policies designed
to promote accelerated but stable economic growth. Some past income distribu-
tion policies and programs in Chile such as price controls, public housing,
cheap credit, direct subsidies, tax exemptions and broadly-based social
expenditure programs were often of equal benefit to the urban middle class as
they were to the truly poor. The current Government has tried to make its
social programs more cost effective by more carefully channeling its efforts
towards the poorest 20 percent of the population.
11.       Some of the Government's approaches have been innovative.  The new
treatment and rehabilitation centers for severely undernourished children and
the preschool nursery program for the poor are examples of promising new
approaches in nutrition which are gaining worldwide recognition. Fortified
and protein enriched milk distribution to infants, preschool children and
pregnant and nursing mothers has increased from 20,000 tons in 1973 to 30,300
tons in 1979. Nursery schools integrating nutrition, medical care, and educa-
tion for the most disadvantaged preschool children, begun in 1973, grew to
over 460 schools by 1979 and served nearly 50,000 children. Partly as a
result of these programs, the infant mortality rate has fallen from 82 deaths
per 1,000 live births in 1970 to 61 in 1975. Steps are being taken to ration-
alize the social security system and to improve the equity and quality of its
benefits.
12.       Attaining the Government's social sector goals has been made more
difficult by the 1975/76 austerity program and the Government's determination
to reduce the overall size of the public sector. Since 1977 the percent of
total Central Government expenditures devoted to social programs has equaled
or exceeded the high levels recorded during the early 1970s. However, in real
terms these expenditures did not reach the heights of 1972 until 1979. While



- 4 -
the Government's efforts in the social sectors are encouraging, more needs
to be done. The Administration is aware of this and has budgeted a further
real increase of 14 percent in social expenditures for 1980. Moreover, Chile
set up a President's Social Council in late 1979 to coordinate social programs
and their financing in the future.
Economic Developments in 1979
13.       Strong growth in the agricultural, industrial and construction
sectors resulted in an estimated real GDP growth rate of about 8.5 percent
in 1979.  This compares favorably with the 7.8 percent recorded in 1978 and
represents the third consecutive year of economic growth well in excess of
historical levels. During 1979 the Government continued to reduce the size of
the public sector and again achieved an overall Central Government surplus.
The surplus, stemming from higher copper revenues and restraint on Government
expenditures, was equivalent to about 5 percent of GDP compared to 2 percent
in 1978. Although the unemployment rate remained high, real wages and salaries
continued to grow at a healthy pace. Between April 1978 and 1979 they grew
15 percent for the second year in a row.
14.       Chile had an overall balance of payments surplus of US$1.0 billion
in 1979 despite substantial increases in petroleum imports. Exports grew
50 percent in nominal terms owing to impressive gains in both traditional and
non-traditional exports. Copper prices increased by 45 percent; this accounted
for most of the increased copper receipts. But copper exports constituted
only about half of total exports of goods in 1979. Industrial sector export
growth is estimated to have been greater than the average for other non-
traditional exports. Despite an 80 percent increase in petroleum import
payments, total merchandise imports are estimated to have grown by only
38 percent in dollar terms, largely because consumer and capital goods imports
grew modestly. The Central Bank has estimated US$1.8 billion in net foreign
capital inflows, much of which represented borrowings by the Chilean private
sector.
15.       There was a resurgence of the inflation rate in 1979 despite anti-
inflationary monetary and fiscal policies. The December-December rate was
39 percent as compared to 30 percent in 1978. International inflation,
especially the high prices paid for petroleum imports, was one of the major
factors contributing to the acceleration in inflation. Despite the growth of
inflation, commercial bank real lending rates to borrowers on 30-day loans
have continued to decline from 63 percent per annum in December 1977 to
24 percent in November 1979. Reductions in the real interest rates result
from the growing availability of foreign credits and the Government's policies
to both lower reserve requirements on short-term deposits and pay interest on
legal reserve requirements. The steady decline in real interest rates is
beginning to have a positive impact on the construction industry, which during
1979 showed signs of strong recovery. This should help reduce unemployment,
particularly for unskilled workers.



- 5 -
16.       The Government's exchange rate policies changed in July 1979
when the previous system of daily devaluations announced in advance by the
Central Bank was replaced by a fixed exchange rate of 39 pesos per U.S.
dollar. In January 1980 the authorities announced that the exchange rate
would remain fixed at 39 pesos indefinitely. In a small open economy like
Chile, this mtasure--along with a planned fiscal surplus and continued access
to external capital--can be expected to bring the inflation rate in Chile
closer to world levels. Should there be a major change in the economic
situation, the Government is prepared to reexamine its exchange rate policy.
Prospects
17.       It is anticipated that 1980 will be another year of relatively high
economic growth, perhaps in the 7.5 percent range. Net foreign capital inflows
are expected to be lower than in 1979, but still should exceed US$1 billion.
There should be some reduction in the rate of inflation. Increased construc-
tion activity and the continued growth of export industries will probably
reduce the rate of unemployment, although it is not expected to drop to
historical levels in the near future. Over the longer term Chilean economic
prospects also remain favorable despite substantial petroleum imports and
continued dependence on commercial loans to finance the majority of its
external capital requirements. It is anticipated that Chile will grow at six
percent in real terms between 1980 and 1985. The export sectors, traditional
and nontraditional, should lead the way, with gains from both improved prices
and increases in export volumes.
18.       In order to sustain growth rates anticipated at nearly double the
historical average, investment will need to increase very substantially from
its current level of about 10 percent of GDP to 18 percent or more. It is
expected that private investment will continue to expand with the growth of
confidence in the economy, particularly if real interest rates continue to
fall. There is a similar need to expand public investment. As part of the
current austerity program and the broader desire to reduce the direct economic
role of the State, public investment spending has been cut back. As a result,
Chile's infrastructure base has deteriorated. The Government will need to act
more aggressively to meet the highest priority needs of the public sector.
FinaLly, the continued growth of strong oligopolistic interests may ultimately
become incongruent with the Government's present liberal, open trade strategy
and endanger the competitiveness and long-term viability of the Chilean
economic system. Non-subsidized assistance to small enterprises and vigorous
enforcement of antitrust regulations could help avoid this possible problem.
19.       Through prudent economic management Chile was able to cope with
hyperinflation, adverse terms of trade, and large debt service payments
during the last half of the seventies. In spite of rising petroleum imports,
Chile's favorable prospects for growth (particularly of exports) and proven
ability to manage its economy so as to meet debt payments, make it creditworthy.
Nevertheless, Chile will continue to require substantial external resources to
finance its future growth. During the early 1980s its current account deficit
will likely average approximately 4.5 percent of GDP. Much of the foreign



- 6 -
borrowing required to finance this deficit is expected to be by the private
sector; the public external debt service ratio is likely to decline from 34
percent in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979 to 15 percent in 1982 and about 11
percent by 1985.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHILE
20.       Among developing countries, Chile is the Bank's oldest borrower.
The Bank's first development loan was extended to Chile in 1948 and, since
then, the Bank has made 23 loans to Chile totalling US$351.5 million, net of
cancellations. The Association has also extended a US$19 million credit to
the country for a road project. Of these operations, 20 bank loans and the
credit have been fully disbursed; as of February 29, 1980, overall disburse-
ments stood at US$318.9 million. IFC commitments in Chile came to US$21.2
million with US$15 million of this amount committed to copper mining and the
remainder to industry. The Corporation presently holds US$1.2 million of its
Chilean commitments.
21.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 45 percent has been for
power, 19 percent for agriculture, 13 percent for mining and 13 percent for
roads. The balance, 10 percent, has been earmarked for industry, education
and technical assistance.
22.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially, varying in accordance with the country's economic performance
and the availability of suitable projects. Between 1971 and 1973, the
Bank did not lend to Chile because of the severe deterioration in economic
and financial management referred to in Part I. On the basis of negotia-
tions substantially completed with the Allende Government, the Bank cautiously
resumed lending in 1974. Specifically, the amount of two existing loans was
increased by US$8.3 million to finance interest and other charges during
construction under the fifth power and second highway maintenance projects.
In addition, a loan of US$5.25 million was made to help finance a technical
assistance project. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four loans totalling
US$107.8 million to help finance projects in the agriculture, copper mining
and power sectors. There was no Bank lending to Chile in FY's 78-79.
23.       Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has, on the whole,
been satisfactory. In the case of the road and education operations
approved in 1970, however, virtually no headway was made in implementation
during the 1971-73 period owing to the high rate of inflation, deteriorating
conditions in the construction industry and a shortage in counterpart funds.
Beginning in 1974, execution of these projects improved markedly and all
three have now been completed. More recently, the copper sector and sixth
power projects approved in FY76 and FY77, respectively, experienced delays
in start up but these difficulties have been largely overcome. Annex II
contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC commitments as of
t_bz-uary 29, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 7 -
24.       In addition to the proposed urban water supply operation, the
Government and the Bank are also working on the preparation of a highway
reconstruction project and an agricultural credit loan designed to assist
small farmers and to stimulate agricultural exports. A follow-up water supply
project, which would include assistance to the urban poor in the city of
Concepcion and an irrigation project are also being prepared. The presenta-
tion of these operations to the Executive Directors would depend on the
continuation in Chile of sound economic policies aimed at stimulating growth
while improving income distribution.
25.       By the end of 1978, Chile's public and publicly guaranteed external
debt, both disbursed and undisbursed, equalled US$5,756 million; the Bank
Group's share was 4.3 percent. Bank Group loans and credits are estimated
at 3.4 percent of Chile's disbursed public external debt at the end of 1979.
This share is expected to be about 5 percent by 1985 when the Bank's share
of the public external debt service would be about 4 percent.
26.       In the past, both USAID and the IDB have been active in Chile with
each agency providing the country with considerable development assistance.
The IDB had committed US$616.4 million to Chile through the end of 1979
focussing on agriculture, industry and mining, power and transportation.
USAID's Chile operations--including about US$80 million in grants--totaled
some US$665 million through 1979. While USAID is winding down its operations
in Chile, the IDB plans to continue lending to the country blending loans for
traditional infrastructure projects (e.g., power) with lending for socially-
oriented projects, mainly in rural areas.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTORS
General
27.       Chile has a population of about 10.7 million with urban dwellers
accounting for approximately 83 percent of this number. The country has
one of Latin America's lowest demographic growth rates. Between 1980 and
1985, its population is expected to increase by 1.6 percent annually.
This figure is projected to drop to about 1.2 percent per annum by the
end of the century. As a result of rural migration, the growth rate in
urban areas is higher than the national average. During the 1975-85 decade,
the urban population is expected to increase by 2.5 percent per annum.
Urban population growth is also declining, however, and is projected to be
down to about 1.9 percent per annum by the year 2000.
28.       With a population fast approaching four million, Santiago --Chile's
capital and largest city-- is home to about 37 percent of the country's popu-
lation. It is located in the Central Region, the nation's agricultural and
industrial heartland. Approximately 70 percent of Chile's inhabitants
reside in the Central Region where Valparaiso and Concepcion, the second and
third largest cities, are also located.
29.       Water resources are unevenly distributed in Chile, a long narrow
country stretching 4,300 km from north to south but measuring only 150 to
200 km from east to west in most places. The northern third of the country



- 8 -
has great mineral wealth but is arid desert. Gradually, the desert gives way
to the Central Region, which is watered by numerous rivers fed by melting snow
from the Andes mountains during the summer and some rainfall during the
winter. The greatest water resources are found in the south where rivers are
numerous and prec-itation copious, exceeding 2,500 mm per annum in some
areas. Legislation was introduced in 1979 assigning rights on surface waters
to present users or to those having water concessions. Users serving the
public have priority for previously unassigned water rights.
Service Levels
30.       Chile ranked first in the Latin America and Caribbean Region in water
service coverage from 1938 through 1961, with 71 percent of the total popula-
tion served by the end of this period. Because of relatively modest investments
since then, service levels increased to only about 77 percent, dropping Chile
to 13th place amongst Latin American and Caribbean countries by 1976. Today
about 85 percent of the population is served with water by house connections in
urban areas. About three fourths of town dwellers are also served by sewerage
systems. The situation is far less satisfactory in the countryside where only
about 38 percent of the nondispersed population has access to safe water.
31.       Water supply shortages are a frequent occurrence during the
summer dry season in Central Region cities such as Valparaiso and Santiago.
Unaccounted-for water levels are also high (between 30-50 percent in most
areas) owing to inadequate metering and maintenance. The proposed project
includes metering and leak detection/repair programs to help tackle this
problem.
Institutional Framework
32.       In November 1977, the Government reorganized the water supply and
sewerage sector in order to render it more effective. A new institution,
the National Sanitary Works Service (SENDOS), was set up to oversee, coordinate
and to carry out certain sector activities. SENDOS--a financially autonomous
body with corporate status--is under the authority of the Public Works Ministry
(MOP). It has a National Directorate in Santiago and 11 decentralized regional
offices, one for each of the country's 13 regions except for the areas around
Santiago and Valparaiso (Regions XIII and V, respectively). Two other decentral-
ized entities with corporate status--the Santiago Sanitary Works Company (EMOS)
and the Valparaiso Sanitary-Works Company (ESVAL)--were set up in 1977 to
serve the Santiago and Valparaiso metropolitan areas. Both EMOS and ESVAL
report to the MOP through SENDOS. In addition to these public sector agencies,
several privately owned and operated water supply companies serve cities and
towns under concessions granted by MOP. SENDOS supervises these companies to
insure that they conform to sector policies and service standards and follow
acceptable administrative and operating practices.
33.       SENDOS' National Directorate plans, finances, designs and oversees
all sector operations in the 11 regions for which it is responsible.  The
Directorate also supervises the activities carried out by EMOS and ESVAL. In
small villages and rural areas, SENDOS--through its regional offices--executes
water supply and sanitation works. Operation and maintenance of these rural
systems are the responsibility of user cooperatives or water commissions under



- 9 -
SENDOS' guidance. SENDOS' 11 regional offices execute sector policy at the
regional level and also manage, construct, operate and maintain water and
sewerage services within urban areas in their respective regions.
34.       To strengthen itself, SENDOS has commissioned consultants to improve
its billing and collection procedures and to introduce computerized accounting
and inventory management. The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) also
provided assistance to SENDOS in 1978-79 in areas of financial and operational
management. The Government has also been assessing ways of improving the
efficiency of the recently established institutional framework and is now
pursuing a strategy of establishing autonomous water supply and sanitation
authorities in SENDOS' different regions. Technical assistance would be
provided under the proposed project to study how best to reorganize the
regions into efficient autonomous companies (para. 50), and during negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Bank would be given an opportunity to comment
on any change in the legal status of SENDOS or EMOS (Section 4.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement). It was further agreed that any autonomous company established
by the Government in place of an existing SENDOS regional office would--as
legal successor to the regional office--assume all of SENDOS' obligations under
the project in the region in question (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
35.       Investments in the sector during the 1973-79 period came to about
US$186 million with about 28 percent of this amount expended in Greater
Santiago. Because past Government policy had been to keep water tariffs low,
Government grants covered most investments and operating costs. Between 1973
and 1979, for example, about 58 percent of investments were financed by Govern-
ment grants, 38 percent from internally generated cash and the remaining
four percent by borrowing. Since 1976, Government policy in this area has
changed drastically. Its aim today is to have tariffs and other users'
contributions cover all operation and maintenance costs and depreciation as
well as most future investments. At the same time, the Government has pushed
for greater efficiency in water supply agencies. As a result, since 1975
water tariffs have been increased by 160 percent in real terms, Government
subsidies for operation have been phased out and considerable savings in the
operating costs of the companies have been achieved.
36.       Water tariffs for both public and private companies are set by the
Ministry of Economy. SENDOS recommends tariff levels to the Ministry through
MOP after reviewing requests from EMOS, ESVAL and its regional offices.
The Santiago Area
37.       The Santiago Metropolitan Region's water and sewerage needs are met
by EMOS and two small independent companies. About 90 percent of the urban
inhabitants have access to water through house connections. EMOS' system
supplies water to 3.54 million persons with 240,000 of these served only by
public standpipes. The independent companies supply another 360,000 people
through house connections in well-to-do areas.
38.       Santiago's water comes from the Maipo River and oiher surface and
groundwater sources. Altogether, these provide about 111 m /sec of water,



- 10 -
enough to meet the region's expected urban and agricultural demands to the end
of the century. But, because of recent legislation on water rights (para. 29),
EMOS' share of the Maipo River's flow in an exceptionally dry summer might be
insufficient to meet the demand of the company's main wlter treatment plant
(Vizcachas-Vizcachitas) which is to be expanded to 15 m /sec under the proposed
project. To cover this 3eventuality, the Government has agreed to assign to
EMOS not less than 15 m /sec from the Maipo River. The receipt by the Bank of
evidence that this assignment has been formalized would be a condition of
disbursement for the Vizcachas-Vizcachitas water treatment plant component of
the project (Section 4(d) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). With
this agreement, EMOS would be in a position to cover Santiago's water needs
up to 1995, even in years of drought.
39.       Almost all of Santiago's residents have adequate waste disposal
facilities, either through connection to the sewerage system (82 percent) or
by means of septic tanks and latrines. There are no sewage treatment plants
in the city, however, so raw sewage is discharged into the Maipo and Mapocho
rivers. This results in a high incidence of enteric diseases, hepatitis and
typhoid owing to the consumption of vegetables and fruits grown on farms
irrigated by the polluted rivers. Another problem is the high (37 percent in
1978) level of unaccounted-for water in the EMOS system. This is due to in-
adequate maintenance in the past, to the age of pipes in some parts of the
city and to metering deficiencies. Under the proposed project, a comprehensive
plan to deal with the sewage treatment problem would be prepared and measures
would be taken to reduce unaccounted-for water.
Strategy
40.       SENDOS has prepared an ambitious national sector plan which would
provide by 1985 (i) water (through house connections) and sewerage to 100
and 70 percent of Chile's urban population, respectively; and (ii) water,
through house connections, to 60 percent of the nondispersed rural population.
Although there is a need to extend sewerage systems in urban areas, the SENDOS
plan gives first priority to increasing water coverage levels. Some invest-
ments in sewerage will be made, however, in those urban areas where sanitation
problems are most pressing.
41.       Reaching the coverage targets set by SENDOS will be difficult.
It would require serving an additional 2.3 million urban dwellers and
1.1 million persons in the countryside by 1985. Moreover, the investments
required during the 1980-85 period, US$267 million in 1979 prices, would be
substantially higher than those made in the past; they would average US$45
million annually versus the US$26 million invested per annum between 1973
and 1979. Finally, the sector's new institutions have not yet built up to
the point where they could carry out such an ambitious program by 1985.
42.        SENDOS hopes to meet 30 percent of its investment requirements in
the 1980-85 period by external borrowing. The agency is actively seeking
international financing and has already received a US$7.5 million loan from
IDB to help finance some of the program's rural water supply components.
While the SENDOS five year plan may well exceed Chile's capabilities, it is
designed to tackle the sector's most urgent needs and provides a suitable
framework for the proposed project, which would be the Bank's first operation
in Chile's water supply/sewerage sector.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was identified in November 1977 and was subsequently
prepared by SENDOS and EMOS with the help of consultants and Bank missions.
The project was appraised in November 1978, and post appraised in December of
1979. The appraisal mission's report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Chile
Water Supply Project" (No. 2340d-CH) dated March 24, 1980, is being dis-
tributed separately. Annex III contains a Supplementary Project Data Sheet.
Negotiations of the loan took place in Washington from March 11 through 17,
1980 and the Chilean delegation was headed by Mr. Mario Serani, SENDOS'
National Director.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The project has a two-fold objective.  The first is to provide an
additional 686,000 persons living in Santiago, a majority of whom are urban
poor, with access to water by the time the project is completed (mid-1985)
and to expand and render more effective Santiago's water system so as to
satisfy expected demand to 1995. Ways of correcting deficiencies in the
capital's sewage disposal--which presently results in pollution and health
hazards--would also be determined. The project's second objective is to
improve the environmental and health conditions of the country's urban popula-
tion nationwide by providing safer water more efficiently to some 1.8 million
people living in cities outside of Santiago. In order to meet both objectives,
the project provides technical assistance for strengthening the administrative,
organizational and financial systems of SENDOS' regions as well as metering
and leak detection/repair programs for both EMOS and SENDOS. EMOS would be
responsible for the improvements envisaged in the Santiago Metropolitan
Region, and SENDOS would carry out the nationwide component.
EMOS Component
45.       About 85 percent of project's costs are associated with proposed
improvements in the Santiago area which would be carried out by EMOS. The
specific items included under this component are:
(i)  expansion and improvement of the Las Vizcachas-Vizcachitas waser
treatme5t plant to increase its production capacity from 12 m /sec
to 15 m /sec;
(ii) construction of nine deep wells to supply water to about 159,000
persons, mostly urban poor;
(iii) improvement and extension of EMOS' water distribution network;
(iv) installation of 53,000 new water connections;
(v) a leak detection and repair program;



- 12 -
(vi)  purchase and installation of 120,000 house connection meters
and of master meters at production sources;
(vii)  purchase of operating and maintenance equipment; and
(viii)  consultants' services to supervise the EMOS component's execution
and to prepare a sewerage master plan to cover needs of the
Santiago Metropolitan Region to the year 2000.
46.       Replacement of antiquated equipment at the Vizcachitas plant and
expansion of the facilities at Vizcachas would, together with the well
construction program, help increase water availability in the Metropolitan
Region and relieve summer shortages. The improvement and extension of EMOS'
distribution system would entail (a) installation of 85 km of feeder mains
and 530 km of distribution mains; (b) cgnstruction of 15 storage tanks,
with a total capacity of about 90,000 m , to help regulate the supply of
water, particularly during the summer dry season; (c) the replacement of
200 km of old pipes in poor condition; and (d) a 9.9 km extension of the
city's Third Aqueduct. The system's upgrading and extension, coupled with
the house connection program (item iv of the E24OS component), would permit
EMOS to provide water to an additional 686,000 persons by mid-1985. Invest-
ments in the mains and pipes would also contribute towards meeting the metro-
politan area's long term needs up to 1995.
47.       Under the leak detection and repair program, EMOS would survey
3,000 km of pipes and correct leaks. This, together with the metering
program and the purchase of operating and maintenance equipment would enable
EMOS to gradually reduce the level of unaccounted-for water in Santiago
from 37 percent to about 25 percent over the project execution period.
48.       As was mentioned in paragraph 39, the Metropolitan Region's rivers
are polluted by the discharge into them of raw sewage from Santiago's sewerage
system. As a result, there is a high incidence of enteric diseases, hepatitis
and typhoid fever. The sewerage master plan would help find solutions to this
problem. The plan would assess river pollution levels, survey the existing
sewer system, recommend the location of sewage treatment plants, define
optimum treatment levels and provide preliminary design for priority instal-
lations based on least-cost solutions.
49.       To supervise overall execution of this component, assist in the leak
detection/repair program and help carry out the sewerage master plan, EMOS
would employ a total of about 1,950 man-months of consulting services at an
average cost of about US$2,100 per man-month -- for expatriate professionals
the man-month cost would average US$9,000 and for the technicians hired in
Chile US$2,600. During negotiations, assurances were received that EMOS would
employ engineering consultants whose qualifications and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02 of the draft
EMOS Project Agreement). The hiring of consultants to supervise the EMOS
component's execution would be a condition of disbursement for the EMOS
component (paragraph 4(c)(iii) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
SENDOS Component
50.       The SENDOS component would consist of the following items:
(i) technical assistance to study how best to establish autonomous
regional water supply companies in SENDOS' regions;
(ii) a nationwide chlorination and water quality control program
which would benefit some 1.8 million persons; and
(iii) national metering and leak detection and correction programs.
SENDOS would retain consultants to assess and improve the administrative
capacity and financial practices of its regional offices. The consultants
would develop sound administrative practices in all areas of management
including planning, data processing, budget allocation and control, accounting
procedures, billing, collection, and the setting of tariffs. The consultants
would also make recommendations on the setting up, on a pilot basis, of an
autonomous company in Region VIII (the area around Concepcion). Similar
systems would then be proposed for other SENDOS regions, including the
preparation of procedures and manuals.
51.       The nationwide water quality improvement effort would concentrate
on providing chlorination facilities to 36 cities including the country's
largest cities and towns except for Santiago, which is already well served in
this respect. SENDOS would also purchase equipment for its 14 existing
laboratories to enable these to better control the quality of water in all
urban and rural areas.
52.       In order to reduce the level of unaccounted-for water --which in
some regions runs as high as 50 percent-- and to strengthen its financial
base, SENDOS would carry out comprehensive metering and leak detection pro-
grams under the project. Both would have a national scope. Specifically,
SENDOS would purchase and install 400 water production meters and 167,000
house meters. It would also survey a minimum of 2,000 km of pipes in 11
cities and repair existing leaks.
53.       An estimated 125 man-months of consultants' services would be
required in connection with the technical assistance program and another
325 man/months of specialized services to carry out the SENDOS leak detection/
repair program. The average man-month cost of these consultants would be
about US$4,400--for expatriate professionals it would average US$6,300 per
man-month, and for specialists hired locally US$2,600 per man-month. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the consultants SENDOS hired
would have qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 2.02 of the draft SENDOS Project Agreement).
The Executing Agencies and Their Finances
54.       SENDOS and EMOS, the project's executing agencies, are headed by
competent engineers and have well qualified, albeit relatively inexperienced
staff. Since they are new entities, there is still scope for improvement
in their institutional structure and financial performance. The proposed
project would assist in bringing about these improvements.



- 14 -
55.        Both agencies are keenly interested in increasing their own effi-
ciency. EMOS' ratio of employees to connections is already good at 3.7 per
thousand connections, which is better than the average for U.S. water utilities
of four per thousand and less than half the Latin American average of nine per
thousand. The company hopes to maintain this present level of efficiency
through intensive training programs and its hiring of highly motivated and
qualified personnel for key positions. SENDOS is also improving its efficiency.
It has been successful in halving its staff over the last five years and is
working towards a ratio of four employees per thousand connections. A problem
facing both agencies is that existing salary levels are 30 percent below those
paid in the private sector for comparable jobs. This makes it increasingly
difficult for the companies to maintain present levels of motivation and may
result in undesirable attrition of staff. To tackle this problem, the Govern-
ment is considering legislation which would increase the salary levels of ENOS
and SENDOS to those of other autonomous public sector enterprises.
56.       As noted in para. 35, much higher water tariffs and increased
efficiency have enables SENDOS to imgrove its financial performance. Tariffs
average from US$0.12/m  to US$0.23/m , depending upon water availability in
the different regions. These ta5iff levels are expected to increase to
between US$0.13/m  and US$0.60/m  by 1982, which--given the company's low debt
service--would permit the various SENDOS regions to finance between 15 and
40 percent of their investment program from internal cash generation. The
specific covenant which would insure the contribution to investment levels
just mentioned would require each one of SENDOS' regions to obtain an operat-
ing ratio before depreciation of not more than 80 percent in 1981 and there-
after (Section 4.03 of the draft SENDOS Project Agreement). The Government
would authorize those tariff adjustments necessary to allow SENDOS to comply
with its financial covenant under the loan (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Given the poor quality of SENDOS' asset valuation, it has not been
possible to establish a rate of return objective for this project beneficiary.
However, SENDOS has just completed an inventory of the assets of its regional
offices and assured the Bank during negotiations that the asset valuation for
all of its regional offices would be completed not later than June 30, 1982.
SENDOS has also agreed that its policies for setting tariffs and for determin-
ing the adequacy of its financial performance will be based on the principle
that the operating revenues of each of its regional offices would be sufficient
to cover operating costs and debt service, and to produce a positive annual
rate of return (Section 4.04 of the draft SENDOS Project Agreement). To
strengthen SENDOS' auditing, the company would--beginning in 1981--have its
accounts audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank,
and provide a copy of the audit to the Bank before April 30 of the following
year (Section 4.02 of the draft SENDOS Project Agreement).
57.       EMOS' financial position has also improved since 1976 due to a
165 percent real increase in its tariffs and its growing efficiency. The
company's income statements show, for example, that it went from an operating
deficit of 70 percent in 1976 to a six percent surplus in 1978. EMOS' cash
surplus in 1979 and those projected for 1980-84 would be required for the



- 15 -
proposed project. However, because the Chilean Government has been pressing
its public enterprises to turn over part of their cash surpluses to the
treasury, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that beginning in 1979
EMOS would be allowed to utilize, as and when needed, its internally generated
cash to finance project execution (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       EMOS' collection of bills is still slow--accounts receivable exceed
three months' billings--and its auditing is weak. To deal with the problem
of delinquent accounts, the company recently instituted a program of water
shut-offs. During negotiations, assurances were received that EMOS would
lower its accounts receivable to three months of billings by end-1980 and to
two months by the end of 1981 and thereafter (Section 4.03 of the draft EMOS
Project Agreement). To strengthen EMOS' auditing, the company would, beginning
in 1980, have its accounts audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank and provide a copy of the audit to the Bank before June 30, 1981
for the 1980 accounts and not later than April 30 each year thereafter (Section
4.02 of the draft EMOS Project Agreement).
59.      3EMOS' tariff (covering water and sewerage services) is currently
US$0.13/m , which--if adjusted for inflation--should put EMOS' finances on a
sound footing. Because EMOS' debt service levels are low owing to past
Government contributions, this tariff level would enable the company to
finance about 80 percent of its investments during the 1980-84 period from
internal cash generation--the highest self-financing ratio for a Bank-assisted
water supply company in Latin America. It would also permit the company to
meet the rate of return targets contained in the proposed project's financial
covenant for EMOS, i.e., 3 percent in 1981, 4.0 percent annually in 1982-84,
4.5 percent in 1985 and not less than 5 percent thereafter (Section 4.04
of the draft EMOS Project Agreement). These target returns take into account
the company's most recent figures for its gross fixed assets and accumulated
depreciation, as of December 31, 1978, which resulted from a consultant's
study that the Ministry of Economy commissioned in 1979. These asset figures
were reviewed during negotiations and were agreed to by the Bank. The
Government would authorize any measures to generate revenue necessary to allow
EMOS to comply with the rate of return covenant (Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the
draft Loan Agreement). If the value added tax, which is included in the
company's tariffs and which EMOS transfers to the Government, is considered
part of operating revenue, EMOS' rates of return would come to 7 percent in
1981, 9 percent in 1982-84 and about 10 percent thereafter. In accordance
with usual Bank practice, however, the proposed financial covenant provides
for the calculation of the company's rates of return after taxes. The proposed
financial performance targets are acceptable in view of EMOS' satisfactory
self-financing ratio and since present tariffs cover the marginal cost of
water.
60.       The present structure of water tariffs in Chile benefits the poor.
Water provided through public standpipes is free 3and in the case of house
connections, the basic charge for the first 10 m of water--roughly equi-
valent to the monthly needs of a family of five--is less than one day's
minimum salary. The urban poor also pay only half the normal installation



- 16 -
fee and have up to five years (at zero interest but adjusted for inflation)
to pay for connection charges. While this progressive tariff structure put
into effect only recently is generally satisfactory, the Ministry of Economy
feels that it can he improved, particularly with regard to connection charges.
For the time being, therefore, these charges are not being collected and a
study by consultants is underway, which would make recommendations regarding
EMOS' tariff structure and water charges in early 1981. The Bank has commented
on the consultant's terms of reference and during negotiations assurances were
obtained that the study's recommendations would be furnished to the Bank for
comment by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.04 of the draft EMOS Project Agreement).
Costs and Financing
61.       The project's cost is expected to come to US$119.6 million including
about US$9.6 million in taxes. The proposed loan of US$38 million would cover
the estimated foreign exchange component, equivalent to approximately 32
percent of total costs. EMOS would provide US$77.6 million from its internally
generated cash to meet the local cost requirements of its component. SENDOS
expects to cover the counterpart requirements on its component, US$4 million,
from its resources. However, during negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Government would finance any shortfall on the SENDOS component should
SENDOS' internally generated funds prove inadequate. (Section 3.01(b)(iii) of
the draft Loan Agreement). A cost table showing a breakdown of project costs
and financing is included in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of
this report.
Re-lending Terms
62.       The Republic of Chile would be the Borrower and, through subsidiary
loan agreements, it would onlend--on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan--US$27 million to EMOS and US$11 million to SENDOS to carry out
their respective components. Both SENDOS and EMOS would bear the foreign
exchange risks on their respective parts of the proposed loan. The terms and
conditions of both subsidiary loan agreements would be satisfactory to the
Bank (Sections 3.01(b) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Execution of the
subsidiary loan agreements with EMOS and SENDOS would be a condition of
disbursement for their respective components (Sections 4(b) and (c) of Sche-
dule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government would recover from each of the regional offices the
amount of the Bank loan (principal and interest) disbursed for investments in
the region (Section 4.05 of the draft SENDOS Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
63.       Contracts in excess of US$1 million for civil works and US$200,000
for equipment purchases would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil works contracts of less
than US$1 million but over US$50,000 and equipment purchases of less than
US$200,000 but over US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank; the aggregate
amount of contracts so procured would, however, not exceed US$2 million for
the SENDOS component and US$4 million for the EMOS component.



- 17 -
Contracts of less than US$50,000 would be procured directly on the basis of a
minimum of three quotations and subject to a maximum aggregate of US$500,000
for SENDOS and US$1 million for EMOS. For purposes of bid comparison, Chilean
manufacturers of equipment would be entitled to preferences of 15 percent or
the applicable tariff, whichever, is lower.
64.       Loan disbursements would take place over a five year period running
from mid-1980 to June 30, 1985. Disbursements would be made against the
actual or estimated foreign exchange components of the project as follows:
(i) 25 percent of civil works; (ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs
of internationally procured equipment and materials and 20 percent of their
cost if locally manufactured; and (iii) 30 and 65 percent of consulting ser-
vices for the EMOS and SENDOS components, respectively.
Project Justification
65.       The EMOS component, which accounts for about 85 percent of project
costs, has an internal financial rate of return of 12.4 percent. If, for
sensitivity purposes, its cost was assumed to be 20 percent higher and
water sales 10 percent lower, the component's rate of return would still
be 8.8 percent. The internal rate of return of the much smaller SENDOS
component is not readily quantifiable due to the nature and number of the
subprojects it entails.
66.       As in the case of other water supply operations, the rate of
return cited above considerably understates the project's benefits, many of
which are unquantifiable. Through the proposed project, for example, the
major institutions operating in the sector would strengthen their adminis-
trative and financial structures and would, therefore, be better able to
meet Chile's future water supply/sewerage needs. The metering and leak
detection/repair programs would greatly enhance the sector's efficiency by
reducing both production and operating costs while cutting back water losses
in large cities and towns from the present 30-50 percent to about 25 percent
by 1981. Unnecessary expansion of the system would, thus, be avoided.
67.       The project also has an important social dimension.  Through
the EMOS component, the percentage of Santiago residents having home water
connections would rise from the present 90 percent to 99 percent by 1985;
without the project, service levels in the fast growing capital would
fall to about 80 percent in 1985. Moreover, the majority of the 686,000
Santiago residents who would benefit from the additional connections to be
provided prior to project completion are urban poor with 53 percent of
them having incomes below one third the national average.
68.       In addition to the urban poor in Santiago who would have water
through house connections for the first time, this project would benefit
some 1.8 million urban dwellers--21 percent of whom have incomes less than
one-third the national average--through the nationwide chlorination program
which the proposed loan would help finance. In general, health conditions and
productivity would improve as the result of this program and the incidence of
enteritis and other diarrheal diseases commonly associated with deficient



- 18 -
water supply would diminish. At present, these diseases are responsible for
2.1 percent of all deaths, and are particularly dangerous for infants, among
whom 21 percent of all deaths are attributed to infectious and parasitic diseases.
Project Risks
69.       Given the simplicity of the works proposed, the experience of the
local construction industry and the advanced stage of engineering design,
this operation presents no special risks. The Government's commitment to
the efficiency and viability of state-owned entities, like EMOS and SENDOS,
coupled with the proposed loan's financial covenants (paragraphs 56 through
60) should insure that the project's institution building goals in the
financial area would be realized.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the Bank
and the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and EMOS and SENDOS, respec-
tively, as well as the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
71.       The main features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. There are
no special conditions of effectiveness. Special conditions of disbursement
for the EMOS and SENDOS components would be the signing of satisfactory
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and EMOS and SENDOS, respec-
tively (para. 62). A further condition of disbursement for the EMOS com-
ponent would be the hiring of consultants, acceptable to the Bank, to supervise
execution of this component (para. 49). Finally, a condition of disbursement
for the Vizcachas-Vizcachitas water treatment plant subcomponent would be
receipt by the Bank of evidence tha5 EMOS has been assigned by the Government
the right to use not less than 15 m /sec from the Maipo River (para. 38).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 26, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
CHILE - SOC7AL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHILE                     2EFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Aq&AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. .N.)                                                - MOST RECENT  STIMATE) -
TOTAL            757.0                                                  SAME        SAMZ     NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL     175.8                                ?ST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMTAE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                 510.0       840.0    1410.0          1124.4     L097.7      1942.6
ENMERG CONSMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALrNT)     865.0      1160.0    967.0            943.1      730.7      1646.7
POPUMATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      7.6         9.4      10.6 /1
URUJA  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 67.8       75.2      78.5./1         59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJICTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      14.0
STATIONARY POP1ATION (MILLIONS)                         19.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHMD                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       10.0        12.0      14.0            23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. Rl. AGRICULTURAL LAND     43.0        54.0      60.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         39.0        38.0      34.0            40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YR-S.                       57.0         57.2      61.0            54.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.0         4.8       5.0             3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATIoN GR0oTa RATE (PERCENT)
MTAL                              2.2          2.1       1.7             2.4        2.4         1.7
URFAN                             4.0          3.1       2.5             3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE 31RTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    37.0         28.0      22.0            32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     12.0         9.0       7.0             8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5         1.7       1.3             2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         62.6     153.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..        ..            17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOO PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.1       103.0     101.0            99.4      104.4       102.0
PZR CAP ITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   96.0       113.0     117.0           107.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          67.0        71.0      78.3            60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       26.0/f      32.0      32.5            28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (ArES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     14.0         7.0       5.0             6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT  ItRTH (TEARS)   57.0        62.0      67.0            63.6       60.2        65.6
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          108.0        82.0      61.0            76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
DDTAL                               ..   k   56.0      83.0             63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..       67.0      98.0            79.5        75.7        85.1
RURAL                                         13.0      30.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
WOTAL                               *-       29.0       32.0 .t,        58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ..        33.0      36.0            77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               *-        10.0      11.0            24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1810.0      2210.0/g  2200.0           1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     650.0          ..    450.0            933.7      1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                           260.0        270.0    300.0            563.4      453.4       197.6
UR3AN                               ..       220.0    240.0            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               *-      1160.0    590.0           1140.9     2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      28.0            25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE IF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.1        ..             5.0        5.3         4.7
UREAN                             5.2         5.0        ..              4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                             6.0          5.5       ..              5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TInA.L                             1.7         1.4        ..             1.3        l.9         1.I
URBAN                              1.6         1.3       ..              1.3        1.6         1.2
RURAL                             2.0          1.7                       1.5        2.5         1.2
ACCESS -O ELEC7RICITY (?ERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             71.0          ..      85.0            54.3       50.0        66.0
36.3          ..        ..            30.1       71.7        35.1
24.0          ..      30.0            14.2       17.3



- 20 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of
TABLE 3A
CHILE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHILE                     REYERRSNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED)AYJRAGES
M HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT       EOWRAPNIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL2MENT RATIOS
nIMARY:      TOTAL                L09.0        107.0      117.0           107.3       102.5        101.7
MALE                 111.0        108.0     118.0            109.1       109.6       110.0
FEMALE               107.0       107.0      116.0            107.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDART:   TOTAL                 24.0         39.0      48.0             40.5        33.5         51.2
MALE                  24.0        36.0       45.0             40.4       38.4         56.4
rDNLE                 24.0        61.0       51.0             39.0       30.7         *3.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t  Of SECONDARY)  26.0         33.0      34.0              18.5       11.5         18.3
PUPIL-rEAM RATIO
PRInARY                               .         39.0      39.0             37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                          13.0         15.0      15.0             17.9        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        84.0         88.0       8S.0             77.4       64.0         86.1
CONSU9TON
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         19.0      25.0             29.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         94.0        143.0     172.0            172.1       122.7        225.9
T7 RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1         51.0      68.0             67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PFER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 131.0           ..         ..            76.1        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           5.0        2.3              4.2        3.7          3.6
LAROR FORCE
DOTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2505.0       2884.0    3260.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.7         22.1      23.4             21.5        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              30.0         23.8      21.0             30.2        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 30.3         28.0      27.0             23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.0         30.8      31.8             30.9        33.5         33.8
KALE                                 52.2         48.6       49.3            47.3        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                               14.2         13.4      14.7             13.3        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3         1.4        1.2              1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED SY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..            23.7        20.8
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          51.4/h      ..             58.7        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          4.47h       ..             2.9         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         13.47h      ..              9.9        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     270.0            265.6      270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     270.0            185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URB                                   ..          ..     374.0            396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     374.0            308.1       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (FERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            35.2        20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            46.6        35.3
Nor available
Soc applicahie.
NOTES
!a    The ado..ctd group averages for each Lndicator are poguia coe-oeighced  meometric neans, excludiog che extreme
value-   of the indicator and the avec populated country tn each gro-p.  Coverage of countries aon.g the
icdicacors depends oc availability of data ad is cct uniform.
'b    UneIss otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year btc.een 1959 and 1961; for 1970, h.e-eer 1969
acd 1971; .cd for Mnnc Rlancer  hs.e-e 'ecuee  1974 and 1977.
'n  Laci  A.erica 6 Caribbean;   /id  Inermediae  Middle Income (5551-1135 per  a.ica, 1976)!  /I  Upper
Middle Ienine (51136-2300 per capi-t.  1976);   /f  Av. 1961-63;   ZI  Persnnesi En g-verm.enc services
seiy;   /h  1968.
Li  According to  the National Institute  of Statistics  (INE), the total
population was 10.7 million in 1979, 83 percent of whom were urban
reaidents.
8 According to a 1978/1979 sector survey conducted by the National
Sanitary Works Service (SENTDOS), 87 percent of the total, 93 percent of
the urban, and 38 percent of the rural population had access to safe water;
in addition, 75 percent of the total, ard 62 percent of the urban population
had access to sewage disposal.
/k   According to the Pan American HeE th Organization  (PAHO) 71 percent of the
total population had access to safe water in 1961.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August 1979



- 21 -                                                                           AME I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITION 0F SOCIAL MIICATORP
Vote.:  Although the data are denen fromsore  gene.rally judged the met authoritati-e  sd reliable, it should .als  be meted that they may sot ha internse-
trln-liy comparable because of the lack of etendardized definitions sod concepts used by different countries In colleting the data. The data are, nonetheless,
use ful to describe orders of nagitude, indicate trends, nd ch.rteriee certain major difference  between  o_ntrie.
The Iadjusted group avregefrec   niso    r  population-ceighted geometric isemen, e-oluding the estrem    auso  h   indicator sod the me.t populated
country Ie eac  grup   W.i to lank of date group aveagee of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Elporter  en.d of idicators of Access ho Water sod tooreta
Disposl , Housing, Income Diat ribstioc  and Povery foe other country groups mrs popultioo-uelghtod ge-mtr.o eand  nithout socluuio  of the cotrem   vaInes  sod
the! nt populated country.  Since the_oocerage of countries  -on  the indicators de-edoi on noeilabilitc  of deta sod is not unfr,cuion smost he mercies
in relatig avrages of one iwdio-tor to another.  These  -cra es are moati  useful no apro-imetiolns of  esotd    susch    0                            1     t       5 0f oee
Indicator at a time  amng    . -cutry and reference groups.
lAID AB-td inlan.d)Aceo  oPcrt lo.al(eretofcosltont                                                                                                        ttl rho,adrua 
f7Total. sufac nI u  coset%priocog lard area o.       nadetr.Nme   fpol   htl  uran  so   erl   ert                                               y   otageesls
Agicult-rl -Most recen   otimate of agrioolturnl arem owed temporarily                        per-eetngem  of their r,eepecti-e Populations. LEcreta dispe.aa  asp hnebsds
or PIe   soly for  _rpo, Pes turro, earket end kitobe- garden. or to                        the ollect-o  nod dsopo..a, with or  itbhout treatmeot, of he-    -serts
lIe fallo.                                                                                    _ sd  oeeotrby mater-born.eaywtsme or the use of pit priodes and smailar
2L_JCAPdITbAy        GN -OP pee esita es.timatwa st ourrt maket prisso,                   Ppnultoi.cn   r n,idi-  - Peplatime dirided by number of practicing physiebsos
ea iltidbjiii  concerwios aetbod asW-cId Bsank Atlas (1976-78 basis);                       9611t_ifEAmi IAY         slnchowl at university level.
196o, 1970, end 1978 date.                                                                  Populatio!   e I _iSuw    Pst_o- Popolation dicided by inumber of praticing asic
NEGCNINION PER CAPITA - Aoou.. Icnnumptcoo of ooemercli  e-er                          nod frecle   rdae  umn  pranniomil nurses, sod asistant nar.see.
(col  od  igite  ptroeu,  atualgaoen  hyro, colerand  e-                  Po.. eti-c per Howoita1 Bed - total. urban. end -rura  - population (total, urban,
therus  electricity) in ksilnr-o  of coel equivalent pe   nie 90nd  -rurl) divided by their resPeCtive number ofhsia   es  vial   s
1970, sod 1976 dts.                                                                           public and priva:te  gnrltend speolli-ed hoetpitmi end rehabilitstin ceter.-
Houpitele are etobliu=oect  permanently staffed by at least wne dsysioian.
POPUIATION ADOl VITAL STATISTICS                                                                Estoblishi.eots providIng priwoipailly cutodieI c are are not inclulded  Roral
Totl  P    lt in                            A.-er  ~i00)u   of Joiy 1; 1960, 1970, and        boptycrlo, howeer, i-Ilude heI.th nod medio.clceters not P._.onidaafe
17dit..                                                                                 by e physicia   but by m med-1 .. noiotent, curise, aldife, eto.) which offer
Urban Pplaton (nercet of tutal  - Ptio of urban to totel popoi.tion;                          in-patient accosedetion end procide a limited range of medical. facilitiesa.
dfeetdefisiticnuof urba  e"es may affect coniparmbility of deta                     Ad- -s ..o.o nec   psotai Bed - Total number of ni.iewiow  to or discharges fro
smog cou ntries; 196o, 1970, and 1975 dnte.                                                 bneyitaio divided by the cobe  obds
P.Wlati.. i      000 - Current populmtiow projevti,ne ncc baed on                 HOUSiING
1975 t.tmI population by age and swo and oteIo mortality ed fe-tiiity                  Syringe Sicc  Cf no...ehold (cproows pr hueod)-taluran. mod ual-
rtsiroetoo   pmirsmetern fo  cortlity mien comprise of three                          otbl   osit   fagopo  inefdividuml    ho a Ir  livn   qusartez  sod
lerrl  mesuO-nog life roperlancy ntbirth i-cco.woing cith ovuecrys                        thOny uind  -emlo   A boarder or lodger may or nay noct be included doth
per  aptn    oelevel, and fewae ILIfe  opecteny stbiIiciog at                             tonuehold for  tcntistioe1 p-ap.wes.
77.5 yenr..  The pari,tero  for fertility  rntc abc have threw  levels                 Ac-rag  nuber of perwow. per coon - total, urban, sod rura  - Average number
aseoming decltwe in fertility accordin  to inom  level sod Past                           of p     uprcossI         n    rban, sod rual. ocupied convetitos.I dwellings,
fwnily visonning perfornene. Padc  ovutr-y isi then nosigod one of these                 repotory          Mllingc` coclude co-permanenit structures sod unsc-upted parts.
nine oomhinatiowe of mnortality nod fertility treo.do for peojetio                     A-v... to Electri-t y lperceIt ofidwelling) - total, urban, an -ual-Cn
purpwen.octio..al d.elliog   ob lblectricitylIn                                                                                            Ino g quartere as peetw.gr nID
Stationary population  . In n sthetiowary populetivo there is to gro-th                     total, usno, endg crel deelicego reepecticely.
: incetthe birth rate in oquni to thie deeth rate, and ale the age
etruoturere-ineoo-twt. This io nbie-ed coby efter fertility rates                   EIKICAT]ION
deline to the repincecect l-nn  of unit net reproductioc reste, oben                iTQo-td Etorcllneot Rantics
eIoh g-e-etio- of co-c  -eplors itoclf coactiy.  The statione.ry popu-                    Fror  "viol-  octal noe ud femmie - dross total, ale  and fesale earoi-
Letinnceoacsbnasd or  I    nicftepojctdoeateoia                                           co   f eli oge; n tbch pron    leve  an percentages of  esapectics priasry
of tie population  in thc proc 2000, so  the rnte of ueo lIce of fertility                 o-oo-n-ge Ppoplati-o; norcaly booluies children aged 6-11 yemrn bto
rate to repl"eenet ico1.                                                                   Idote   o  differ-ot ilogthn  of primary educ ation; for countries with
dYear etti..:Z  %puhlntdion is  --nben - Thr your  hbe  statione.ry populotooc                mcie teuetu    ooletasp esceed 110 Percent  IoceI som .-Pupils
stow  ban berearmd                                                                         nrc  cio  ,IH_oetbhecffioin1 sobool age.
Population    Gs:iity                                                                          Cc--d-ry uivih.   - total, sic  end female . Comp;uted  i alive; mesonwiar
Per no. ha     K id-year popuintiuc per squar  Aslonet er (110 hectares) of                   edu-esio.reqireon Iee-t fou  yearw  of approved priesry Lootruotion;
nted.  cen                                                                                   I_osi" '0 eorl o_onivl   rte-ce raninl                  otuoio    orppl
Per no  i     4 toculturnl leno  - fC..puted no   coc foe agicultural lard                   u.u..l oYf 121 to 17 y-or  of agc; -orrepowdenecunn   artie' goeralNly"
Popula,ow Ag  itrutur icr-ent) - ChIldren (0-14 pe-r), worhiog-agceoninierlec   preto   eooao       oeiniisiuin    nld
5_lbi pev), ad retired  (6  par  ud ovor) no pcrceotgo oIf od-year                           -cchini   onutii           r ctber progrm   ohich ope...te iodependently or a
Population; ito0, 1970, nod 1977 data.                                                        drpnlactn  o  trutdory iustitutions.
PopuatonCr   -d7jp ent) -otntl - usnisal cr-th rate- of total nil-                            toc-lenbr   etilo-cenayP            ndecod-i   - Total students euro11d.in
yerpplas  t      For19-O  1"07;ad  907.promary end sondy  eoetlu ividedb   obr   ftahr   stecre
Ppolti.n G-oeth Rnce (p-ereti - -bia   - Asnual g            hon  rntro  of urban               opoodoc  le-1in
Ppoplet iows.for 1950-60_ 1960-70, nwd 197A-71.                                             Adult lotrn     lne  peroentt) - literete ndsltu  (able to reed and inite) ea
Crude Birth Pale (ocr thuun     MounI live birthu  per thiosoad of wid-                         acrnoeofto~tel  dult popuietico  aged 15 yearw  and over.
your Ppupulatio; 161, 1970,) sod 1977 deto.
Crude  Pet    ate (er th-uend  - Aoneldie.tto  Pvc th--od 0leiCOnc                        fNlhMPfboN
ppula4t~'ion;19 0, 1970, an~d 1977 deco.                                                  Peno..oger sC-   per thoutund poplultiuc        P -....enWe  oars  -spri,me motor care
Ioeepdution Ratr -Aoego -ub-r of dnsgbtrrsnoese  oi1 bene                             -rt ng Iron oboocight pernons; coolodens enblenes, bearnes and nilitory
in her normal -pr-du-ti-e p--id if  hbc -p-ri-o-e  preurot ege-                            c_bolc
cpecif_v  Ifetili,ty rntro; osunlly fioye-ea  aerogr  coding in 1965,                    bedbo b,o-r...r  I (po  thiounan   populet-o     - Ail types ofrieeafordo
i970, end 1975.                                                                            ico.lonct. to  ...er.. pblic pe 'housand of ppuletion; e-lde  un-1lcnsd
Fenily Pl- Scon  - Aoc-otov.-A. 1 ino lh(Ibuade  - MoodI  -uber of                            rv--rsocutiin  ad in yearn u'hn ccgiot-ation  of r.ui' wetsasi
e-optoro of birth-control de-iennoeronPlono                    ...i.na  feily               -ff-ct  dnnf c rcet Yrnro cisy not be ..oep...ILI oince m,,t countries
pleiog i ~progrno.                                                              .            bto1oohed lioc-oig.
FenIly Plenlog-  dom)crvcntof1 n-iidl s-ec) -iPeroeotagc of cArried                         TV ARor--e   (pvc thbonoand Ppopultiocn1 - TX' receive.rs for br..edoat to general
Iose  ofIoidhro    g   15_41 years)            Icou   it-oot-I Hevibr                     puiblic per tbcun-     opltivo;  oluden uniiceowd TV receivers iw countries
to all cardLed ...e I    non - sge group,                                                   and o,: pears  hro regiitrotioc of TV veto nmn in effect.
neopusvcircdnoonbcc ccuundcooisc  5          h- dve  the ueragr oirc.b.toin
FOOD AMP NaoToITION                                                                              fIni  ge nlitect --epepecm   defned usaperiodioal publication
Ioden of Food Pfoductioo perCe-pits (1969-71zO120   - Ioden of per onpite                     Uvd-td primarily to recording general neon.  It is considered to be edaily"~
feeId" and is onolendne year boom.  toC.-dicte--ec prinary co,odo                         Ibeo usnoa utlenuent per tiepit  Ie .ekroodo  tenme  o   iho
;e.g ,   aoc  ittn   fsae)oih are rdoblc sod coInoc - utrirots                              oddrc.I.po,ooiigunoio   to drive-in oinemas  end mobile
(og. cffIernod ten III roi_,,ed)   Aggregestc prduotioc of -ob osuotpy
Oslebn..d onoetion nocc,ag;e pro,ducer price -ightn.
P_c cepite euopy of  _uoIco _lor_cet ofD ceouc-enenb) - fCeputed Iroc                 ,A1O1  FhOfCE
enegy cquicaleot . f ne't food  -upplics  -vilobic 10 coutry per cnspite              Totni Luoc Forc   (thussrodi) - E-oo -Ivly actIve persssns, including armed
Per Imp.  A-oiloblc  -ppli, encon   io  do-etic p-od-cto-, inp-cto Icon                   furor  nod -Ionployed lot  -oldiag bhcei-o, students, etc. Definitions
cPoprts, sod  bangeoIocoo-k.  Not  -upplies coo1dc aninni feed, ses -,acouooot. c  cectcopeb
qOuntities uoed is food pro.co-s-g, nod          r  ondiOtributoco. Aequirr-           76pa47jyprvct(           wcblcfrrO  pretge of total labcr force.
meets  rer  estimatd by PiA   coe n pbys iclogicul  -cro  for .o.n-I                                       _I,yhc~pcp((-ibocfre  ofring, forrtry, bunting sod
_oticityen  hea:lth  _ vondro,g  -coIe . oetnl troperat-r., bod,  -eogto,                 fiol-ncnnpe-cetag  ci t,tel 1ebne force.
agc and icc rtrob,,ti -c  -f ppulati 'n, and nlc-ig 15 perceot for                     hindustEy, cr-eno) - lab, r force cc ooisg, oonntrotioo., manufacturing sod
s-tenit hv..orhoId Ivel _ivovoo t2,  sob-er and gocs  percentage of total Lmbor force.
icccpotnuppLy of pr-bon torso  Ic  dmp( - Proe-  coitntot c  o'e-t-l pntt-  bate (coccet) -totoil, male, and femol   - Participation or
-npib. net supply of fo-d prr day.  ctspply .f food is deiinId so                        arile    secnccoptd us total, a.lc, sod feal labor force as per-
aboec.HRqieet   o   hOutie  rsolce    ydi    rvd   o                                      rotagc. of ttnl   roe           female populationo  of nIlage  respentiVely;
mioOwin nll_nrv  1  isOgriof totu  p-ro I" Poer dp and 20 scan  of                              1 -c    7i{, nod 1970  iOn-   Thrsc are 1LO00 Psti-iPuti-o  rates reflecting
nob1el nd pulse protrin, of ohich 10 gra   should  c animal protein.                       g-o   t-utoer  t th,- population, ed lcwg tine trend.  Afew estiastes
These stncidw-d  arc l,scr h- nc    I_co  rf 75 grum    f tot.1 protein sod               -rPrw         -oolcl  .cu.c...
onowcoftiu  prtino   son-vgI for thc  -Icd, propuned by FAd                            foononic lependenoy Ratmo -Atic of popultio   under 15 end 65 sd ever ts
_tbehicT OclW" ood Fdoecy.                                                                Pr      _  _o focc     neg  gupof 15-t4 pears.
Per -apitn protron tOpplyI fro  nimal end pubc-   -rlmcpply of food
deicdfroucecoed polne  IoNCOMErAm.                                                  010  DISTRIBUTdION
Child lags .1-n) bbcnit      Dmn  or Obhuse=di- dAecnl dntho Poe th-o-ad                    Pecaeg   fPrvt              m     both Is cash end kiad) - Oueired by richese
so agr group 1_-i. yar, to childre  ic thicag rop  fr.  coot dIron-                           percent,  -ihbet 00 porvnt, ponr_t 10 peroe..t, ansd peorwt h0 percnt
dPicg Ootrsc  dat  drei-d froc life tslc.                                                   of ,  houeholdo.
life Eupeot-ny at  Pot   poi       ocaons.ro  ycqs of life                                  Puesosted Ab-cot, Poverty InIoac Irelc  (US$ per naia)-ube  ad rurl.I
re si.ig as bienth  160  199    o077.d ita                                                  Al-1,ioo  coerto o-on  I-oel Lo that incm-         lvl  e          hie   a  inimal
Inet IPro ty nuto  (pe, tb..uoad) k           I -nce   rtno of infants uodr co              stct...on.l   d,,qutte  iet plus esuentinl oca-fod cequiraementw  is sot
year of age por tbousand loc birthn.                                                        nffo,eoblr.
hA-e-e to ISfo Onitee (Poroot ft is-olto          - totel,  re,I-  nod rura   -             Po- -sed Ritctior Tcco-t  incom  level (o-prcpt)-ubnsd rurial-
Icsno   f PeopeI  tal. urn,ad rua-,cenoalecout                                          ccl roslrp-or    nc                   leeLnoe-br   faEN aepropt
cufruntlropl    iscIodo   cetd surf. s             t- sb rs cutreated Out                   pcnnl00e   f tim   outy  drbno lee  is 11  deri-ed from  the ruratl level
un 1oonictcd cotor O-b noheon  from  p-ot-etd boreisolon, op-igs,                        dstacoc nfo   ihr  oto  liin                       lurban aree..
an   - onto     n npublie  fvoltnn,,r ntndpost located Ict caner tbhn                     toe       ree      fpopltov   debar and rural)  ho are  asolute poor'.
210 mtr-n fro   u louse nay to ono-id-red us beiog uithio renoanbie
ofh.bt-0-00 . l   -ud  n--s   e_oonle ance               - cod iniepl
dicp_pco-s,a-t  port ,f tbc day i- fclt,si    the funily' ssteeneed&                                                           i,c,oowic Melyiois end Projections Department
Angust 1979



- 22 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  l3,730  (mid-1978, thousands)
aOP Per Capita:  US$1,41z3 '1978)
Amount
(in millions,
uS$ 1979 for total,    Average Annual Increase (%)                  Share of GDP at Market Prices 96)
ratios in 1977 prices)    (at constant 1975 prices)            (Curren- prices except 1980, 1980 in 1977 prices)
Trdizator                                   1979e/            1965-70   l137=5  19'S-tO                1965        1970        1975        190 (pro,j.)
NANAT3NL ACCO3'-_T
Iross domestic product                  13,506.3              3.6       -0.3       7.5             133.3        100.0       130.0       100.3
Agriculture                            1,758.0              1.5         -        4.7                9.6         7.2         5.7         9.4
Minirg amid industry                   5,329.3              3.5       -1.7       7.2               4o.4        42.6        32.7        29.0
Services                              1i,4i9.o              3.8        3.7       8.0              5030        50.2         61.6        61.6
C-nsumption                             17,694.i              4.9        0.0       7.1               31.9        33.7        97.1        93.6
iross investment                         1,849.3              3.4      -11.6      20.7               17.6        15.6         6.3        11.9
Excorts of goods and N0S                 3,399.0              3.3        2.5      14.2               13.3        15.0        19.8       1'1.8
tIrorts of goods and NFS                 4,435.6              8.2       -2.7      16.0              12.8         14.3        23.2        24.3
';ross national savings                    256.3              4.3       -7.7       a/
Amount                                                       Composition of Merchandise Trade
(millior U0$          Average Annual Increase (%)                       (Current Prices)
at currert prices         (at constant 1975 prices)
1979 e/          1965-70   1970-75  1975-80               1965        1970        1975       Proj.
IPRCMASTDISE TlOADE
Merchar,dise exports                     3,73.0              2.4        5.0      10.7              10C.0      103.0       100.0        103.0
Copper                                 1,oOl.5              4.6        4.1       4.7              63.0        75.5        54.1         44.o
Agricultural goods                       290.1              5.n        2.1      23.2                3.5        2.9          5.4         8.1
Manufactured goods                       99P.1              3.7       13.4      14.0              15.2        11.2        25.1         29.0
Other koods                              648.3             -2.9        3.6      21.3              18,3        1004         15.4        18.9
Merchandise impor-s                      4,335.0              7.3       -1.6      16.3             100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0
Mood                                     531.1             -1.6        6.6      14.3              22.7        14.5         20.3        17.3
Other consumer goods                     704.2             12.5       -1.2      47.6               7.3        10.0          5.2        15.5
Petroleum, oil, lubricar.ts              869.3              9.1        o.6      lo.6               2.7         3.0         14.2        13.2
Other intermediate + capital goods  2,230.4                .3.        -4.i     i4.0               67.3        72.5        60.3         54.3
e/
1970       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979
PPTCES 4AD TERMS OF TRADE
'DP deflator (Ust)                      130.0      108.9      1371       168. 3     157.6      178.4
Exchange rate                             0.01       4.9       13,1       21.5       31.7       37.3
Export price index                      100.0      135.9 3    l155       153.1      165.8      206.3
Import price index                      133.3      20S.3      222.3      234.0      248.6      303.3
Terms -f trade index                    133.3       66,5       68,o       65.4       66.7       63.o
1965       1973       19`5
;ENFRAl 1 O.ERNlET= AS 3 OF S rP
Currert revenue                          25.0       31.5       23.7
Clurrent experditure                     26.C0      23.3       22.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-'               +1.C       +3.2       +6.3
CapitaL experditure                       6.6        5.7          5
Foreirsn finarcirrg                       0.0       -1.5       -2.9
1965-70   1970-75   1975- 33
G','OP a'rowtn rate (3)                   3.4        3.0        7.4
'050 per capita growth rate (6)           1.5       -1.8        5.9
clergv consumption growth rate (8)        4,r       _0.3        l.a.
ICOn                                      3.3      -17 .9       1.2
Varni g1al savings rate                   0.1         3.1       3.1
'ort elasticit,:                         2.3       i.4        2.1
* oss national savings increased fron a cegative usS38.4 -illion in 1975 to $538.4 mil' ior in 1980; 'both in 1975 prices.
. n. imate.



-  23   -                                 Annex I
Pege 5 of 5
BALA1CE OF PAYMENITS  EXTERIIAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Million 1U  at cUrrent prices)
Actuam                                                              rjce
1970      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977        1973      1979i e1                             1r d2       1983
BALANCE O PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods and services           -107      -313      -137      -597         82     -579      -1,005      -948       -1,307      -1,237      -1,318      -1,419
Exports of goods and services            1,280    1,427    2,399    1,758    2,340    2,613            3,176    4,820         5,816       6,993       8,388       9,653
Imports of goods and services            1,387    1,740    2,536    2,355    2,258    3,192            4,181    5,768        7,123        8,230       9,706      11,072
Net transfers                                  2        13         11        10       28         50          57        93         100         107          115         123
Current account balance                     -105      -300      -126      -587       110      -529         -945      -855      -1,207      -1,130      -1,203      -1,296
Direct private investment                       5        -4      -17         -4         7        30         178       250         276         301          325         348
MLT loars (net)                              285         -9      -58        -78        52        36       1,294    1,633        1,146       1,003       1,113        1,163
Jfficial                                   215        -8       -89      -180      114      -138        -202       -67        -108          -92         -79         -48
Private                                     71        -1        31       102       166       174       1,496    1,700        1,254        1,095       1,192       1,211
Other capital                                -72       202       156       395       256       456          100       -11          11          11           11          13
Change in reserves (-   increase)           -114       111         45+      274     -455          7        -624   -1,017         -226        -185        -246         -228
International reserves (net)                 409      -232      -277      -551       -96      -103          522    1,539        1,765       1,950       2,196       2,424
Reserves as months of imports                  4        -2        -1        -3       -.5       -.4            2         3           3           3            3           3
Actual
1970    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants
Gross disbursemen,ts of MLT loans                             397      523      283     433      551    1487
Concessional                                                 46       63       62      14       20       48
Bilateral                                                    45       60      45       12       18        6
IDA                                                          -        -        -       -        -        -
Other multilateral                                            1        3       17        2       2       41
Non-concessional                                              351      460      221     419      531    1439
Official export. credits                                     54      200       43      78       48       42
IBRD                                                         27       13       16      15       12       17
Other multilateral                                            5       12       16      11       33       19
Private                                                     265      235      146     315      438    1361
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed                               2066    3789    3731    3589    3538    4371
Official                                                   1187    2152    2260    2146    2032    1890
IBRD                                                     111      123      129      136      141      152
IDA                                                        19      22       22       22       21       21
Other                                                   1057    2007    2109    1988    1870    1717
Private                                                    879    1637    1471    1443    1506    2481
Undisbursed Debt                                              469      588      613     656    1060    1385
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments -a/                               241      278      502     757      884    1064
Interest                                                     78      79      157      209      201      278
Payments as % exports .-/                                     18.8    11.6    28.7    32.0    33.6         33-9
Average interest rate on new loans (%)                         6.9      7.2      7.2      7.8      8.7    11.0
Official                                                     6.5      8.0     6.1       6.4     7.8      7.0
Private                                                      7.0      6.1      8.3     8.9      8.8    11.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)                         11.4    12.5    14.5    10.2         6.8      7.0
Official                                                    19.7    14.8    19.4    16.8    17.3    18.0
Private                                                     10.0      9.4    10.3       5.4     5.7      6.0
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (Z)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                             5.4      3.2      3.5      3.8     4.0      3.5
T1RD disbursements/total gross disbusrsements                  6.8      2.4      5.7      3.5      2.2     1.1
IBRD debt service/total debt service                           8.0    -2.0       1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
IDA DOD/total D(OD                                             0.9      0.6     0.6      0.6      0.6      0.5
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements                     -        -        -       -        -        -
IDA debt service/total debt service                                          -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1978)
TERMS STRUCTURE
Maturity structare of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                     32.0
Principal due within 10 years                                                    41.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                    4.0
/ The deb4 service payments reflect the amounts actually paid rather than tha amounts due prior to renegotiation, which affects the figures
for 1974, in particular.
e! Estimate.



- 24 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHILE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS * (as at February 29, 1980)
Loan or                                                         US$ million
Credit   Fiscal                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrower    Purpose               Bank         IDA     Undisbursed
20 loans and one credit fully disbursed               263.7        19.0          -
1200      1976       Chile     Copper Sector           27.8         -          17.8
1350      1977       Chile     Agric. Credit           25.0          -          1.9
1351      1977       ENDESA    Power System Reh.       35.0         -          31.9
Total                                                 351.5        19.0        51.6
of which has been repaid                            141.1         1.9
Total now outstanding                                 210.4        17.1
Amount sold                              7.2
of which has been repaid               7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        210.4        17.1
Total undisbursed                                                              51.6
(*) Prior to exchange adjustment
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                    Type of            Amount in US$ million
Year                Obligor             Business             Loan  Equity  Total
1958, 1959     Empresa Minera de
and 1966         Mantos Blancos         Copper Mining        3.10   1.24    4.34
1959, and      Fideos y Alimentos
1965             Carozzi S.A.           Food products        1.50   0.15    1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965        Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.   Cement                1.20   0.10    1.30
1963           Cia. Manufacturera
de Papeles y
Cartones              Pulp and Paper       3.00      -     3.00
1970           Minera Sagasca S.A.    Copper mining         10.45   0.45   10.90
Total gross commitments                                     19.25   1.94   21.19
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                 19.25   0.70   19.95
Total Commitments now held by IFC                        -     1.24    1.24
Total undisbursed                                                 -       -



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1200-CH Copper Sector Project; US$27.8 million Loan of March 24,
1976; Effective Date: June 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Project start up was delayed by a major reorganization of CODELCO--
one of the project's two executing agencies. The reorganization was an insti-
tution building measure which the Bank supported. Start-up was further delayed
by changes in the project's scope which the Government requested in late 1977.
The most important of these was the decision to provide electricity to CODELCO's
El Salvador mine by interconnecting it with the main power grid of the National
Power Company (ENDESA) instead of by rehabilitating the mine's dilapidated
thermal plant as the project originally envisaged. This move made sense
following ENDESA's decision in 1976 to extend the grid to a point relatively
close to the mine. The Executive Directors agreed to the requested modifica-
tions on a "non objection" basis on September 7, 1978. At the same time, the
loan's amount was reduced from US$33 million to the present US$27.8 million
because the approved changes entailed lower project foreign exchange costs.
The Loan's Closing Date was also extended to December 31, 1980. Since
the project's modification in 1978 its execution has improved markedly, and
the loan is expected to be disbursed by end-1980.
Loan No. 1350-CH Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards and Agro-industry Credit
Project; US$25 million Loan of March 17, 1977; Effective
Date: June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Loan disbursements have moved quickly and now total about US$23.1
million. Strong demand for credit amongst medium-sized farmers resulted in
fast disbursements to this group. As expected, subloans to small farmers--
i.e., agrarian reform beneficiaries and "minifundistas" farming five basic ha.
of land or less--moved more slowly, mainly because of their more limited
absorptive capacity. Both categories of small farmers have received about a
third of loan funds and the agreed-upon earmarking of 20 percent of project
funds to "minifundistas" is expected to be met. Bank staff are closely
monitoring this aspect of performance.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan No. 1351-CH Sixth Power Project; US$35 million Loan of February 15, 1977;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
After several postponements in the effectiveness deadline, this
loan was declared effective on December 28, 1978. These postponements
were caused by the Government's unwillingness to raise tariffs sufficiently
to enable ENDESA to earn the agreed-upon rates of return in 1977 and 1978.
The Government, for its part, maintained that ENDESA's tariffs were already
satisfactory and that its rates of return appeared low only because the
company's asset base was overvalued. To resolve this valuation issue, the
Government retained the services of consultants, satisfactory to the Bank,
to review ENDESA's asset base. Their study, completed in July 1978, indicated
that the company's assets were overstated, albeit by less than the Government
had believed. Subsequently, the Bank and the Government jointly reviewed
ENDESA's financial projections and investment program. Both sides agreed to
a plan of tariff increases and other tax measures which would assure the
company's financial viability and enable it to make a satisfactory contribu-
tion to its investments. Following this agreement, the loan was declared
effective. Because of the delays in effectiveness referred to above, disburse-
ments, to date, have been low, but are expected to pick up in 1980.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  11 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                          SENDOS and EMOS with
assistance from Bank
staff and consultants.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:               March 1977.
(d)  Identification of Project:                    November 1977.
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:               November 5, 1978.
(f)  Post-appraisal Mission:                       December 10, 1979.
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                   March 17, 1980.
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                July 1980.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government would consult with the Bank on any changes in
the legal status of SENDOS and EMOS and any autonomous company
established in place of a SENDOS region would assume SENDOS'
obligations under the project in the region (para. 34);
(b) Receipt by the3Bank of evidence that EMOS is entitled to use not
less than 15 m /sec of water from the Maipo River is a condition
of disbursement for the Vizcachas-Vizcachitas water treatment
plant's expansion under the EMOS component (para. 38);
(c) In connection with the project, EMOS and SENDOS to employ consultants
whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 49 and 53). The hiring of consul-
tants to supervise the EMOS component's execution would be a condi-
tion of disbursement for the EMOS component (para. 49);
(d) Each SENDOS region to achieve an operating ratio of 80 percent or
less in 1981 and thereafter (para. 56). In addition, SENDOS to
complete the asset valuation for all of its regional offices by June
30, 1982 and shall maintain financial policies which would enable
its regional offices to earn a positive rate of return (para. 56).



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Government to authorize tariff adjustments and any other measure
necessary to allow SENDOS and EMOS to comply with their respective
financial covenants under the loan (paras. 56 and 59);
(f) The Government to allow EMOS, beginning in 1979 and continuing
through project implementation, to retain its cash surplus as
and when needed, to help finance the project (para. 57);
(g) EMOS to lower its accounts receivable to three months of billings by
end-1980, and to two months by end-1981 and thereafter (para. 58);
(h) Independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank to audit annual
financial statements of EMOS and SENDOS beginning in 1980 and 1981,
respectively, and the agencies to provide a copy of the audit to the
Bank before April 30 of the following year except that EMOS to
submit its audit for 1980 before June 30, 1981 (paras. 56 and 58);
(i) EMOS to earn a rate of return on revalued fixed assets, after all
taxes levied, of 3.0 percent in 1981, 4 percent in 1982-84, 4.5
percent in 1985 and 5 percent thereafter (para. 59);
(j)  No later than June 30, 1981, EMOS to submit to the Bank for
comment the study currently being prepared in connection with the
company's tariff structure and water charges (para. 60);
(k) The Government to provide local counterpart funds for the
SENDOS component in the event that SENDOS' internal cash
generation is inadequate (para. 61);
(1) Government to onlend loan funds to SENDOS and EMOS through
subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 62).
Execution of the SENDOS and EMOS subsidiary loan agreements
would be conditions of disbursement for their respective
project components (para. 62); and
(m)  Government to recover from each region the amount of the Bank
loan (principal and interest) disbursed for investments in the
region (para. 62).



/]1lol              To A     .7                          |       70'4D'                             .__-lt          Twt                    2
2  15 Aol,                     I~~~T 1  A-045             REGON  
'1' F tin 0 O-'                                                 A PO
,     Til Til             \                                                                                         ..          ANCHACGA 
|-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I r                                                                                 6 I jP0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \o ,                                                          ,,'/VAlPISR                            i..^srQiaPASO
2512
P.IP~~~~~~~
: r <{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                   MCA  HNNUL MEA  ANUA
f i t WA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERPESUPPL PROECIPTAT                                                                                    -3Itono.
>                            *9 JlslodenAolpo j>                 aLIn/dero5              Santiago~~~ Mtopolit rto Regionton
N                                T    H                                                         /7
-I \. I T * Water trectment plont~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&.                                                  66
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                                                                      5 os 0 sCnl
KsLoMETeRs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                               MEAN-u nr-
1  ',~~~~E                   RC !~T0                    1 .df
 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~         ~          ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5  ITI,   oo  od
T5 Vo,P-''t                                                                                                                                                    7<''-,/ 
IWLS                                                                                                                                                        ,/          7/eodoyrad  
L          71|00                                         Ar Poerto Monit\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 704                                               7/72   7         2 7 v
OD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CW
S   ~~~~D     U ~~~~T               H            J- d.Jote po
-33moi0e                                     T.Io.l                                   El Nor-ial                                                                                      33'40
7/I                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El M.I-t6.d
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
*Ilodeo.eo         LodercsSantiago   Metropolitan  Region
S    Sotel ites covered by project
~~~Vold,v,o                                 U~~~~~~~~~~    Water trectment plant
I                  ooPoote~~~.1d                                         -..Zone boundo3es
15  -~~~~~~~~  25                                                        o~~~~~~~~~~~~T1e5   ~~~~~~Rivers
1    ~20       2                                                                                 Canals
KILOMETERS                                                                                                     Built-op oreas
10              IS                                                                                 Major roads
MILES______1
TO,  p0010  p,op.,,o by rh~~~~~~~~~ WO,idB,OCI,lo1fe,ci,o.'eSlo'Oeco,oto,,oo                        secQndry rads 
71700                                        T  o,oA ,           70'40-                                                             7020L



