LOAN NUMBER 1832 CH
SENDOS Project Agreement
(Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE OBRAS SANITARIAS
Dated                     'A          , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1832 CH
SENDOS PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and SERVICIO NACIONAL DE OBRAS SANITARIAS
(hereinafter called SENDOS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Chile (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million
dollars ($38,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SENDOS agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement (hereinafter called the
SENDOS Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and SENDOS, a portion of the proceeds of the loan pro-
vided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
SENDOS on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SENDOS, 4n consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
Section 2.01. SENDOS shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-2-
administrative, financial, engineering and water supply and sewage
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SENDOS in carrying out Parts
A and D of the Project, SENDOS shall employ engineering and
management consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan for Parts B, C and D of the Project shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedulo to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SENDOS undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by SENDOS to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, SENDOS shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SENDOS shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Parts A,
B, C and D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) SENDOS shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B, C and D
of the Project (including their costs and the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan for Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project, and to disclose their use in such Parts of the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Parts A, B, C and D
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project and


﻿-3-
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
on a quarterly basis all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A, B, C and D of the Project,
their costs and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan for Parts
A, B, C and D of the Project and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SENDOS and
the Bank, SENDOS shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of Parts A, B, C
and D of the Project, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by SENDOS and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the SENDOS Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan with respect to
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
(d) SENDOS shall enable the Bank's representatives, on the
reasonable request of the Bank, to examine all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of SENDOS
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. SENDOS shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SENDOS Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, SENDOS shall not take or concur in any a)ction
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the SENDOS Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SENDOS shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
A, B, C or D of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the SENDOS Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) SENDOS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A, B, C or D of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan with respect thereto, or the performance by
.SENDOS of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
SENDOS Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. SENDOS shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SENDOS
Section 3.01. SENDOS shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
conduct its business and undertaking, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and public utility practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. SENDOS shall:
(a) at all times take all necessary steps to maintain its
existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and
retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful for the purpose of complying with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement or for the efficient conduct of its
business and undertaking;
(b) at all times operate and maintain the plants, machinery,
equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices; and
(c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
the property or assets owned or operated by it: (i) which are
necessary or useful for the efficient conduct of its business and
undertaking; and (ii) without the prior agreement of the Bank on
the terms of such sale, lease, transfer or other disposition.
Section 3.03. SENDOS shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
practices appropriate for water supply and sewerage operations in
the territories of the Borrower.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SENDOS shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SENDOS shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year, beginning with its
fiscal year commencing January 1, 1981, audited, in accordance
with generally accepted auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of SENDOS and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. SENDOS shall take all necessary measures in
order to ensure that for the year 1981 and for each year there-
after the tariffs and other revenues for each of its regional
offices shall permit each of them to have an operating ratio not
exceeding 80%.
For purposes of this Section, "operating ratio" means the
annual operating expenses of the regional office of SENDOS in
question (excluding debt service and depreciation charges) divided
by such office's annual gross revenues and "gross revenues" means
all of such office's revenues from its operations and other
revenues incidental thereto.
Section 4.04. SENDOS shall maintain policies for charging
tariffs and for determining the adequacy of its financial perform-
ance based on the principle that, in general, the operating
revenues of each of its regional offices are sufficient to cover
operating costs and debt service and to produce a positive annual
rate of return for the office in question and to this effect,
SENDOS undertakes to complete not later than June 30, 1982, an
initial.valuation of the fixed assets of its regional offices. For
the purposes of this Section:


﻿-6-
(a) such annual rates of return shall be calcuated in respect
of each fiscal year by using as the denominator the average of the
current value of net fixed assets operated by the regional office
at the beginning, and at the end of the year in question and, as
the numerator, the operating income of the regional office for
that year;
(b) the term "current value of net fixed assets" means the
gross value of the regional office's revalued fixed assets less
the office's revalued accumulated depreciation. (Fixed assets and
depreciation are revalued annually in a proportion at least equal
to the annual increase in the Borrower's Consumer Price Index and
such fixed assets and depreciation exclude user's contributions);
(c) the term "operating income" means the difference between
the regional office's operating revenues and operating expenses;
(d) the term "operating revenues" means all revenues from
the regional office's operations and other revenues incidental
the.eto; and
(e) the term "operating expenses" means all direct costs of
operation by the regional office of its facilities and services,
including a reasonable portion of general administrative costs,
adequate maintenance expenses, and an adequate provision for
depreciation and taxes, but excluding interest and other charges
on debt.
Section 4.05. SENDOS shall ensure that the repayments to
the Borrower of the principal and interest on the proceeds of the
Loan for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project shall be forthcoming
from the regional offices of SENDOS in proportion to the expendi-
tures of such proceeds within the territorial jurisdiction of
such offices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of SENDOS thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify SENDOS thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SENDOS:
Servicio Nacional de Obras
Sanitarias
Morande 59
Santiago
Chile


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
SENDOS                             40777
MINOBRAS                           40778
Santiago                           40779
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SENDOS may be taken or executed by the
Director of SENDOS or such other person or persons as such Direc-
tor shall designate in writing, and SENDOS shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly'authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
ll 5)7Regional Vice President
Lati America and the Caribbean
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE OBRAS SANITARIAS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SENDOS shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order :o provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. SENDOS shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually. so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of SENDOS and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the territory of the
Borrower equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 11 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$1,000,000 but more than $50,000 may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the price
of the contracts so procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed
$2,000,000.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost less than $200,000 but more than $50,000 may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided,
however, that the price of the contracts so procured shall not, in
the aggregate, exceed $2,000,000.
3.   Contracts for civil works or for the purchase of equipment
and materials estimated to cost less than $50,000 may be procured
on the basis of price quotations from not less than three indepen-
dent contractors or suppliers in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the price of
the contracts so procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed
$500,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts governed by the provisions of
Part A of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, SENDOS shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents


﻿- 12 -
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SENDOS
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform SENDOS and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SENDOS shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform SENDOS and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   For all contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
costing the equivalent of $200,000 or more, SENDOS shall advise
the Bank of any material modification or waiver of the terms and
conditions thereof or the issuing of any one or more change orders
pursuant thereto which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than five per cent in the case of contracts for the supply of
goods, and by more than ten per cent in the case of contracts for
civil works as well as the reasons therefor. If it determines that
any such action is or would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement,the Bank shall promptly inform SENDOS and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /5      day of jlLca *, 198 IL.
FOR SECRETARY


