Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14601
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FINANCIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT
(CREDIT 1945-CD)
JUNE 14, 1995
Country Operations Division
Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                         CFAF (January 31, 1994)
CFAF I million                                  US$1,722.65 (January 31, 1994)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                          U.S. Equivalent
I meter (m)                                     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kim)                               0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)          =             0.39 square mile (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)                                  2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)                                2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)                                 2.2046 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFF                 Abattoir frigorifique de Farcha
BCEAO               Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CSPC                Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix du Coton
CTT                 Cooperative des Transporteurs du Tchad
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IGCE                Inspection Gen6rale et ContrOle d'Etat
IRCT                Institut de Recherche du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques
LDP                 Letter of Development Policy
MAGAVET             Magasin G6neral d'Approvisionnement en Produits et Materiels Vtrinaires
OFCA                Office National des Carrieres
OMVSD               Office de Mise en Valeur de Sategui-Deressia
ONDR                Office National de Developpement Rural
PFP                 Policy Framework Paper
SAF                 Structural Adjustment Facility
SHT                 Societ6 HBteli're du Tchad
SIMAT               Societe Industrielle de Materiel Agricole du Tchad
SONAPA              Societe Nationale de Production Animale
SOTERA              Societe Tchadienne d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales
STT                 Soci6tes des Textiles du Tchad
TA                  Technical Assistance
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                            June 14, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Chad - Financial Rehabilitation Credit
(Credit 1945-CD)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Chad - Financial Rehabilitation credit (Credit
1945-CD), prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower did not prepare a Part II.
The credit in the amount of US$44.1 million was approved on July 26, 1988 and consisted of
an IDA credit for US$16.20 million and an African Facility credit in the amount of US$28.08 million.
The credit closing date, which was originally June 30, 1990, was first postponed until June 30, 1991,
and next until June 30, 1992. An undisbursed portion in the amount of US$20.65 million was cancelled
on December 17, 1992.
The objectives of the project were: (i) to improve public resource management through measures
to reform the tax system, restructure current expenditures and increase efficiency in public investment
spending; and (ii) to increase the efficiency of cotton production while reducing the industry's financial
iisks, by reforming the producer pricing system and improving incentives for the growth of the
industry.
The project objectives were not met. After a promising start, during which implementation of
reforms and outcomes showed positive results, performance faltered on both counts, due to a
combination of political and civil unrest, as well as a decline in borrower commitment, precipitated by
a change in government in 1990. Project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, and sustainability as
uncertain. Institutional development is rated as negligible.
The main lessons that emerged from the implementation of the project are: the need for better
tailoring of conditionalities to initial conditions, specifically, administrative capabilities of the
government in the aftermath of a prolonged civil war.
The PCR is of good quality. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .....................................   3
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................... 5
PART I.   Program Review From The Bank's Perspective.                                             9
Introduction.                                                                      9
Background.                                                                        9
Objectives and Design of the FRC .10
FRC Achievements .11
Macro-Economic and Financial Performance .11
Public Resource Management .12
Reform of the Tax System .12
Restructuring Current Expenditures .13
Public Investment Program .14
Cotton Sector Reform .15
Reform of COTONTCHAD .15
Reform of the Producer Pricing System  .16
Settlement of COTONTCHAD's Arrears .17
Introduction of a Cotton Development Program
at the Farm Level .17
Studies in Preparation of the Next Adjustment Phase .17
Second Tranche Release .18
Suspension and Cancellation .19
The Public Resource Management Component .20
The Cotton Component .20
Credit Monitoring and Administration .21
Conclusions and Lessons from the FRC .22
PART II.       Program Review From The Borrower's Perspective .27
PART III.      Statistical Information  .....................................  29
ANNEX I        Financial Rehabilitation Policy Matrix  .........       ..................  33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.I






3
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Chad
Credit 1945-CD - Financial Rehabilitation Credit
PREFACE
1.    This is the program completion report (PCR) for the Financial Rehabilitation Credit in Chad for
which credit 1945-CD in the amount of SDR 32.4 million was approved in July 1988 and became
effective in October 1988. The credit closing date, which was originally June 30, 1990, was first
postponed until June 30, 1991, and next until June 30, 1992. An undisbursed amount of US$20.65 was
cancelled on December 17, 1992.
2.    The Chad Country Team of the Country Operations Division of the (then) Sahelian Department
(AF5CO) prepared Parts I, II and III. Under Part II, the Borrower was asked to produce its own review
of the program. Comments from the Government have not yet been received.
3.    This report is based, inter alia, on the Report and Recommendation of the President to the
Executive Directors, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, policy dialogue with the Borrower, correspondence with concerned donors,
and internal Bank memoranda.






5
PROGRAM COMPLETICN REPORT
Republic of Chad
Credit 1945-CD - Financial Rehabilitation Credit
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Financial Rehabilitation Credit (FRC) to the Republic of Chad in the amount of SDR 32.4
million (US$44.1 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on July 26, 1988. It consists of IDA
credit 1945-CD for SDR 11.9 million and an African Facility Credit A-37-CD in the amount of SDR 20.5
million. The credit became effective on October 13, 1988 and was released in two tranches. The first
tranche of US$16.5 million was disbursed upon credit effectiveness. The second tranche of US$27.6
million was disbursed on April 11, 1990, but was not fully disbursed. The FRC was supplemented by
cofinancing from the African Development Bank, the Saudi Fund, and the government of the Netherlands.
In addition, France provided support to the government budget and the cotton sector. Non-project
funding was also provided from the European Community, the Swiss and USAID. The IMF supported
the adjustment program through a three-year arrangement under the Structural Adjustment Facility over
1987-89.
Background
2.    In the late 1980s, Chad had just emerged from a civil war and had only a rudimentary
administrative capacity. Also, budget resources were scarce and the economy had been hit by a downturn
in international cotton prices. Responding to such conditions, the Bank wanted to help the government
with its transition to a civilian economy.  An adjustment operation was deemed to be the fastest
instrument through which the Bank could provide resources to introduce reforms while investment
projects in education, livestock and transport were being prepared (as it would take another year before
funding would be available from these projects). In addition, the ongoing cotton emergency project was
coming to an end, at a time when further support for the sector, which is crucial for the national
economy, was needed. It was in this context that the FRC was designed.
Program Objectives
3.    The credit supported the first phase of macro-economic adjustment to improve the use of
resources in two areas where adjustment was deemed most urgent: public finance and the cotton sector.
In addition, the credit supported preparations for additional macro-economic policy reforms with a view
to attaining the country's long-term development objectives. The main reforms included the following:
Public resource management. The FRC aimed to increase efficiency in mobilizing and using
public sector resources. Specifically, it intended to (a) reform the tax system; (b) restructure
current expenditures; and (c) increase efficiency in public investment spending.
Cotton sector. The aim was to increase the efficiency of cotton production while reducing the
industry's financial risks.  In particular, the plan included: (a) a program  to increase



6
COTONTCHAD's efficiency; (b) reform of the producer pricing system; (c) a plan to settle
COTONTCHAD's arrears; and (d) a cotton development program at the farm level.
FRC Results
4.     For the cotton component, implementation was swift and complete during the first two years of
the program, and results were impressive and tangible: For example, cotton production costs were more
than halved. However, when COTONTCHAD realized a surplus in the 1989-90 season for the first time
in five years, cost consciousness weakened. Partly as a result of that, the company plunged back into
a financial crisis when world cotton prices plummeted in 1991, and it has yet to recover from this crisis.
5.    With the public resource management component, performance was weak from the start.
Conditions improved somewhat, as the budget was made more transparent and the Government divested
itself of some public enterprises. Tax reform and improved tax administration initially led to a steep
increase in tax revenues, and non-salary operational expenditures for key development ministries tripled
(from almost nothing) in the program's first years.  But these achievements were overshadowed by a
65% increase in the wage bill between 1988-90, a substantial growth of military expenditures in 1990,
and a stabilization of operational expenditures for key development ministries after the first year. Chad's
current deficit increased from 2% of GDP in 1988 to 5% in 1990. After the overthrow of the
government at the end of 1990, the financial situation continued to worsen: tax revenues dropped sharply
while expenditures increased only moderately (relative to earlier years). The current deficit increased
again in 1992, to 6.1 %.
Lessons Learned
6.    Various factors may have contributed to the poor results with respect to public resource
management. The design of the public resource management component was unsound and the Bank
seems to have underestimated the weakness of agencies in charge of budget and expenditure procedures.
Also, there was poor coordination between the Ministry of Finance and Line Ministries regarding hiring.
Moreover, the lawlessness that prevailed in the aftermath of the change of regime was destructive. All
these factors partially prevented the FRC from improving public resource management. But, without
doubt, the bottom line was a lack of political commitment and broad ownership of the program. There
was also a need to heavily emphasize institution building and establish a much longer implementation
period. The expenditure component should have worked if it had been merely a matter of a political
decision about resource allocations and the FRC leverage could have been used to promote it. However,
in Chad, commitment was half-hearted and the administrative capacity to implement it was very weak.
7.    The balancing of current expenditures appears to have suffered from factors pertaining to Chad's
political economy, which involve a number of warring factions that are essential for the government to
control in order for the government to maintain its power base. When the Habre regime faced a
breakdown of the coalition that constituted its power base, it redirected public resources to military
expenditures in an attempt to regain control. After the regime changed, the new coalition's fragility
seems to have been a critical factor contributing to the government's failure to quickly reduce the size
of the army and eliminate military "protection" of the customs services.



7
Adequacy of the Vehicle
8.     Further, three issues need to be addressed. First, is an adjustment program the correct vehicle
with which to improve public resource management in the context of poor governance and political
fragility? Rebalancing expenditures, especially current expenditures, in favor of development outlays,
has proved to be an extremely difficult matter all over Africa. On the Bank's side, expectations were too
high, given the severity of the issues involved in reestablishing the budget and expenditure procedures,
as well as in containing personnel expenditures. Moreover, political commitment to expenditure reform
seems to have been especially weak. Partly because of these conditions and the ensuing government
resistance to discuss improved resource management, the design of the public finance component was
overly ambitious, which left the program vulnerable. It may also have been too optimistic on the part
of the Bank and IMF to calculate fiscal benchmarks on the basis of civil salary wages maintained at 65%
of a scale established in 1967. As it is, one can reasonably argue that the budget support provided under
the FRC  allowed the government to introduce an across-the-board salary increase, a measure
perpendicular to rebalancing expenditures in favor of non-personnel operational outlays.



I



9
I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Intrcoduction
1.    The Financial Rehabilitation Credit (FRC) to the Republic of Chad in the amount of SDR 32.4
million (US$44.1 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on July 26, 1988. It consists of an
IDA credit 1945-CD for SDR 11.9 million and an African facility credit A-37-CD for SDR 20.5 million.
The credit became effective on October 13, 1988 and was released in two tranches. The first, for
US$16.5 million, was disbursed at the time of credit effectiveness. The second, for US$27.6 million,
was released on April 11, 1990, but was not fully disbursed.
2.    The FRC was supplemented by cofinancing from the African Development Bank, the Saudi Fund,
and the Netherlands. In addition, France provided support to the government budget and the cotton
sector. Non-project funding was also provided by the European community, the Swiss and USAID. The
IMF supported the adjustment program through a three-year arrangement under the structural adjustment
facility over 1987-89.
3.    The FRC provided support for the first phase of the adjustment program that was defined in the
context of the first PFP (Policy Framework Paper) for Chad in 1987. Its main objectives were to
increase efficiency in the management of public resources and to reform the cotton sector. The program
was designed to address the government's limited capacity to prepare and implement policy reforms. A
UNDP-financed, Bank-executed technical assistance project helped prepare and implement the reform
program and an IDA-financed Economic and Financial Management Project (Credit 1872-CD) was
approved to provide additional support.
4.    Until the last quarter of 1990, although program performance was generally satisfactory, stark
differences were noted between the two components: Progress with the cotton component was good, but
important slippages occurred on the public expenditure side. In December 1990, the government abruptly
changed, which seriously disrupted the adjustment process.  The consequences were particularly
unfavorable for public finances, which had already been precarious.  An informal suspension of
disbursements under the credit was introduced on April 1, 1991, and the suspension was formalized on
July 8, 1991.
5.    Due to the unusually difficult circumstances in the country, the Bank agreed to waive its right
to close and cancel the credit on June 30, 1991 for another year (until July 1992). At this time, the two
major components were separated. The remaining Dutch cofinancing funds would support further reform
in the cotton sector, independent of progress in the public finance component. The remaining funds of
credits 1945-CD and A-37-CD would support reform in public resource management, provided specific
conditions about public finances were satisfied. When the government failed to meet these conditions,
and the financial situation worsened, the credits were canceled (on December 17, 1992).
Background
6.    In the mid-1980s, Chad faced a deep economic crisis that was triggered by a series of exogenous
factors and compounded by weak economic management. From 1979-82, a protracted internal conflict



10
escalated into a war that caused widespread economic disruption. Much of the country's economic
infrastructure was destroyed, countless private businesses and the commercial banking system were
closed, and the administrative machinery was seriously disrupted. Economic recovery from these
devastating events was curtailed by a drought of unprecedented severity in 1984, followed by a sharp
decline in the world market price for cotton, the country's main export. By 1986, after an average
decline of 2% a year over the preceding 20 years, per capita income was only US$140.
7.     The cotton crisis of 1985-86 exposed the extent to which the economy depended on cotton, which
is the main source of cash income for many of Chad's farmers and earns half the country's export
receipts. The decline of world prices and the depreciation of the US dollar caused a sharp increase in
the country's external current account deficit, which reached 33% of GDP in 1986; also, the loss of
export taxes on cotton contributed to a d&cline of nearly 20% in budgetary receipts in the same year. The
share of government revenue in GDP (that was already low), decreased further to a mere 7%, a level far
short of the requirements of the country's development needs. The current budget deficit increased from
1.6% to 2.7% of GDP. Moreover, the fall of cotton prices coincided with a sharp rise in the
expenditures of the cotton parastatal, COTONTCHAD, caused by inefficient management. As a result,
the company sustained huge losses and accumulated substantial arrears to the banking system.
8.    In response to the cotton crisis, in 1985, the government, with IDA support created a rigorous
emergency program to prevent the sector's collapse. The two-year program was successful as discussed
in the PCR prepared after its completion. In 1988, cotton fiber was again being produced at costs
comparable to those of other West African cotton companies, COTONTCHAD's operating deficit was
reduced by 75%, and its arrears were rescheduled.
9.     However, the government understood that more profound policy changes were needed to address
the structural problems facing the economy. In 1987, it adopted a medium-term program aimed at
rehabilitating the economic structure and achieving a modest rate of economic growth while restoring
internal and external balances. This program was presented in the first PFP adopted in 1987. Medium-
term objectives were defined as follows: (a) to increase the competitiveness of the cotton sector; (b) to
improve food security by diversifying agricultural production and increasing the efficiency of livestock
production; (c) to rehabilitate the transport sector; (d) to accelerate the development of human resources;
and (e) to improve public sector resource management.
10.   As expressed in the Statement of Development Policy issued in 1988, the government adopted
a phased approach to reach these objectives. While more comprehensive reforms were being prepared,
restoring balance in the cotton and public finance sectors would constitute the first step in macro-
economic adjustment.  Simultaneously, reforms would be launched in the livestock, transport and
education sectors. The adjustment program would be supported by a three-year arrangement under the
structural adjustment facility (SAF), the FRC and separate sectoral Bank credits to transport (the
Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Project CR. 2007-CD), livestock (National Livestock Project
CR.1912-CD) and education (Primary Education Rehabilitation Project CR. 1950-CD).
Objectives and Design of the FRC
11.   The FRC was designed to provide support for the first phase of macro-economic adjustment --
to improve resource use in the two areas in which adjustment was deemed most urgent: public finance



I1
and the cotton sector. In addition, the FRC would support preparatory work for additional macro-
economic policy reforms with a view to achieving the country's long-term development objectives.
12.   In the area of public resource management, the FRC aimed to increase efficiency in the
mobilization and use of public resources. Specifically, the program's objectives included: (a) reforming
the tax system; (b) restructuring current expenditures; and (c) increasing efficiency in public investments.
13.    The, cotton sector reforms aimed to increase the efficiency of production while reducing the
industry's financial risks. In particular, the plan had four components: (a) a program to increase
COTONTCHAD's efficiency; (b) a reform of the producer pricing system; (c) a plan to settle
COTONTCHAD's arrears; and (d) a cotton development program at the farm level.
FRC Achievements'
Macro-Economic and Financial Performance
14.    The principal macro-economic targets of the program were to:
*      Achieve average GDP growth of 2% in real terms per annum;
*      Keep the rate of inflation below 5%;
*      Contain the current account deficit (including grants) to 10% of GDP; and
*      Limit the overall balance of payment deficit to an average of SDR 2 million per annum.
15.    Economic and financial performance from 1988-90 was favorable in many areas and most of the
program targets were achieved. Though erratic (due to weather-induced fluctuations in food-crop
production and prices), real GDP growth averaged 4.5% per year, or 1.6% on a per capita basis. The
inflation rate varied widely, but averaged less than 3% per year. Gross fixed capital formation almost
doubled from less than 5% of GDP in the early 1980s to nearly 10% in 1990.
16.    However, performance was weak on the public finance side. Considerable slippage occurred with
respect to the current budget deficit, which increased from 2% of GDP in 1988 to 5% GDP in 1990
(compared to a 1.9% target). While revenues increased 27% from 1988-90, current expenditures
increased even more, by 54%. This was mainly due to higher-than-programmed military outlays and a
growing civil service wage bill. The current account deficit, excluding official transfers, grew from
24.3% in 1988 to 25.2% in 1990.
17.    After the government was overthrown in December 1990, developments were dominated by
political concerns. Although the new regime endorsed the economic program of its predecessor and
committed itself to stabilizing the public finance situation and getting the adjustment program back on
track, these goals were not met; instead, public finances continued to worsen, and the current deficit grew
With a few exceptions, the source of all statistics in sections A and B is: "Chad - Recent Economic Developments", IMF,
September 1993.



12
to 6.5% of GDP by 1991. Revenues declined by 0.5% between 1990-92, while current expenditures
increased by 10%. In mid-1992, the government acted decisively to stabilize vages and succeeded in
holding the current budget deficit at 6.1% of GDP for that year, still far beyond the target of 3.2%. In
1991, budget support from donors was maintained at a high level, but in 1992, these funds largely dried
up. Consequently, the government began to pay its bills erratically, civil servants and the military were
paid irregularly, schools and hospitals were not adequately funded, arrears to suppliers accumulated, and
debt went unserviced for all but the IMF and IDA.
18.   Paradoxically, real economic growth was high in both 1991 and 1992, estimated at 7.6% and
8.4%, respectively. Favorable weather conditions spurred strong growth in the output of food crops and
cotton. Inflation was limited to some 4%, and the current account deficit improved to 23.2% in 1992.
However, these figures masked a slumbering economic crisis: The fo,-mal sector virtually collapsed due
to an uncertain business climate, to decreased import protection (due to a weakened customs
administration), and to a build-up of public sector payment arrears to domestic suppliers and civil
servants. Moreover, a financial crisis developed in the cotton sector, due to a sharp decline in world
cotton prices and weakened cost-consciousness in COTONTCHAD.
Public Resource Management
19.   This component aimed to normalize conditions and achieve good governance. It would achieve
these goals through (a) increasing government revenues by reforming the tax system; (b) restructuring
current expenditures; and (c) improving the efficiency of public investment.
Reform of the tax system
20.    Objectives. To increase government revenue and improve the efficiency of the tax system, the
government sought to: (a) replace the differentiated petroleum import tax with a unitary consumption tax;
(b) reinforce the collection and recovery of the petroleum tax ; and (c) complete, before the end of 1988,
a comprehensive tax policy review.
21.   Results. Initially, results were impressive. Total revenue grew by 27% in 1988 and by another
16% in 1989, reaching levels of CFAF 24.8 and 28.8 billion, respectively. These achievements were
largely due to the adoption in mid-1987 of a new unitary tax on imported petroleum products, in
conjunction with improved customs control and tax administration. The tax reform gained further
momentum in June 1989, with the introduction of the first phase of a comprehensive tax reform, which
aimed at mobilizing additional revenue. This would be achieved mainly by: (a) expanding the tax base
to include more informal sector transactions; (b) reducing tax exemptions; (c) simplifying and
rationalizing the tax system; and (d) further strengthening tax administration. These measures were based
on a wide-ranging tax policy review, conducted in 1988, with technical assistance from the IMF. These
initial successes on the revenue side were largely the result of measures taken under the IMF stand-by
programs, and, while the FRC facilitated joint Bank/IMF supervision missions, the tax component was
already well underway when the FRC began.
22.   In 1990, revenues fell short of the program target, as they grew by only 9.6% to CFAF 31.6
billion as opposed to a 15% target. The shortfall was due mainly to a weakening of customs control,
resulting in the growth of illegal imports of sugar, textiles, edible oils, soap and petroleum. In 1990,
customs receipts dropped to about a third of their previous level. A severe breakdown in the customs
administration following the change of government in December 1990 exacerbated the situation, as it



13
created virtually unregulated flows of goods into the country for two-three months. While the lower
prices benefitted consumers, economic protection of formal sector enterprises abruptly ended and
government revenues diminished profoundly. Thanks to windfall revenues from BEAC profits, overall
government revenue remained essentially stable in 1991 and 1992 at a level of CFAF 31 billion, but tax
revenue dropped substantially due to lower-than-expected imports, inadequate implementation of
administrative measures to restore customs and petroleum tax receipts, and a delay in the implementation
of the comprehensive tax reform introduced in 1989.
Restructuring Current Expenditures
23.    Objectives. This component attempted to enhance the operational capacity of key development
ministries, and at the same time prepare reforms for the public administration sector (aiming to contain
personnel expenditures). The government sought to: (a) increase non-personnel operational expenditures
for the second semester of 1988 in eight ministries deemed essential to development2; (b) increase non-
personnel operational expenditures for the development ministries in the 1989 budget; and (c) strengthen
the expenditure authorization and monitoring procedures.
24.    Results. Performance under this component was extremely weak. Current budget expenditures
increased dramatically from CFAF 31 billion in 1988 to CFAF 48 billion in 1990, and an estimated 52
billion in 1992. While expenditures on materials and supplies more than doubled between 1988-92,
personnel expenditures increased substantially as well, by 64% (the first tranche of the credit partially
contributed to that increase). Moreover, after 1988, the increase in non-personnel expenditures did not
benefit the key development ministries; instead, military expenditures absorbed an increasingly large share
of the current budget.
25.    On the positive side, the supplementary budget implemented in 1988 and the budget adopted for
1989 provided for substantial increases in the level of non-personnel operating expenditures in the
development-oriented ministries. However, while actual expenditures on materials and supplies in the
eight ministries did indeed triple in 1988, they remained stable in 1989, as opposed to increasing further
as planned.
26.    Some steps were taken to improve transparency and monitoring of government expenditures.
With IMF assistance, an improved expenditure nomenclature was introduced in 1987. In 1988,
investment expenditures were, for the first time, included in an expanded government budget. Beginning
in 1990, the budget law provided for all taxes and revenues to be collected by the Treasury, which
became responsible for making appropriate transfers to all agencies. But the effective implementation
of this law incurred considerable delays. While the operations of some public entities were fully
incorporated into the budget and Treasury operations, the budgets of others were annexed to the
government budget. It is questionable however, whether these measures had any positive impact on the
transparency of the budget. Indeed, the Treasury remains a black box and as long as one cannot be
assured of the government's commitment to expenditure reform (see para. 28), the Treasury's command
2      The ministries involved were: Agriculture; Livestock and Rural Water Supply; Public Works, Housing and Urbanism;
Transport and Civil Aviation; Education; Public Health; Social Affairs and the Advancement of Women; and Tourism
and Environmental Protection. For the 1990 budget, the ministries of Higher Education; Urban and Rural Planning;
Mines; Planning; Commerce and Industry; and Finance were added to the "core" list. The Ministry of livestock was
omitted since it is funded under the National Livestock Project.



14
over all taxes and revenues may have made things worse. Similarly, incorporating the budgets of public
entities was not useful in the absence of the capacity to evaluate them and supervise their implementation.
27.    Virtually no progress was made in streamlining the cumbersome authorization procedures that
caused long delays in budget implementation. Indeed, from the preparation of the program onwards, this
has been a contentious issue that met with strong resistance from the government. In March 1991, the
government abolished the expenditure control agency (IGCE, Inspection Generale et Controle d'Etat),
only to create an almost identical agency in October of the same year. Also, a new procurement code
was adopted, as well as various measures aimed at improving procurement.
28.   Whatever achievements were made to restructure current expenditures, they were overshadowed
by developments in personnel expenditures and military outlays, which were largely responsible for the
worsening of the current budget deficit. Between 1988-90, the civil service wage bill increased by 65%,
from a level of CFAF 12.4 billion in 1988, to CFAF 17.5 billion in 1989, and CFAF 20.5 billion in
1990. It represented 50% of government revenues in 1988 and 65% in 1990. As of January 1989,
salaries of all civil servants, which had previously been limited to 65% of the pay scale established in
1967, were raised to 100% of a new 1986 pay scale, a measure considered necessary to motivate the civil
service that, for decades, had salary levels far below those of other low-income countries in Africa.
More likely, the salary increases were politically motivated and it may have been over optinfmistic for the
Bank and IMF to base the fiscal benchmarks of their programs on civil service wages that would remain
at their previous levels (especially because the President would need support for the political reforms he
launched in 1989, and which included a new Constitution and presidential and congressional elections).
Although the government said it would not introduce new general salary hikes nor increase net
recruitment (after the first increase), it approved both a general wage increase for temporary staff in
1990, and increased the civil service, which led to a wage bill that was 11 % higher than agreed under
the program. However, these actions did not improve civil service efficiency. While budgeted military
outlays dropped by about 20% between 1984-89 to CFAF 17.9 billion, they increased again in 1990, to
CFAF 19.7 billion, representing 60% of government revenue. In addition, extra-budgetary military
expenditures paid for by contributions to the "effort de guerre" ("war contribution") were assumed to be
around CFAF 15 billion annually.
29.   The new regime thus inherited a public expenditure situation that had deteriorated considerably
over the preceding years, and was aggravated further by the looting of about CFAF 3.5 billion from
government resources by the outgoing regime.  Since 1990, total government current expenditures
continued to rise, from CFAF 48 billion in 1990 to CFAF 53 billion in 1992. The civil service wage
bill increased, albeit marginally, to a level of CFAF 20.6 million in 1991, but decreased to CFAF 20.1
billion in 1992, following rather drastic mid-year stabilization measures. The new government faced the
problem of financing an army of 47,000 troops (roughly twice the size of the civil service), as various
dissident forces were merged with regular government troops. The "war contribution" was eliminated
and all military expenditures were fully incorporated into the budget. Although difficult to assess, it is
likely that overall total military expenditures did not increase from 1991-92. But a plan to scale down
the army to a size of 25,000, which is a prerequisite to addressing the country's budgetary problems, has
repeatedly been delayed. Only in 1993 did the government finally demobilize about 10,000 soldiers.
Public Investment Program
30.   Objectives. The government sought to improve the efficiepcy of public investment by adopting
a rolling PIP for 1989-91 and beyond; strengthening the PIP preparation and evaluation process;
I



15
formulating sectoral strategies for the livestock, transport, education and health sectors; and organizing
aid coordination meetings for the agriculture, transport and education sectors.
31.   Results. After having no formal public invesLment program since 1975, the government resumed
investment planning with the preparation of a PIP for 1987. The PIP for 1988 was, for the first time,
incorporated in the government budget and, under the FRC, substantial progress was made in
implementing it. A three-year rolling program was adopted for the 1989-91 period and subsequently
updated. Another first was that the 1989 national budget included a modest domestic counterpart
contribution to the investment efforts. The level and sectoral allocation of the PIP conformed to the
country's development priorities, which emphasized agriculture, livestock and infrastructure (particularly
transportation) as well as human resources. Investment expenditures grew from CFAF 53 billion in 1988
to CFAF 58 billion in 1990, representing on average about 18% of GDP.
32.   In order to improve the investment program, development strategies for the livestock and
transport sectors were adopted in 1988 that formed the basis for setting expenditure priorities and are
currently being implemented by national projects. Strategies for the health and education sectors were
also prepared, albeit with considerable delays due to repeated updates. Sectoral aid coordination meetings
were held for the transport and agriculture sectors.
33.   Essentially, the component was designed as a first step to introducing proper investment planning,
and consisted mainly of cataloging ongoing projects and ensuring that the main new projects were in line
with agreed sectoral strategies. After 1990, however, the cataloging part of the exercise ran into
difficulties, as the Ministry of Planning was unable to obtain information and cooperation from line
ministries. The PIP was, in effect, non-existent, and did not provide a tool for improved planning.
Perhaps the most effective effort -o improve investment planning derived from the donors' consensus on
sectoral strategies and their reluctance to finance activities outside the agreed strategies. Moreover,
several additional parts warrant attention.  First, even the limited achievements in investment
programming were largely due to the technical assistance provided by a Bank-financed, UNDP-executed
project (CHD/87/001) and by the Economic and Financial Management Project (Cr. 1872-CD). But, the
former program neglected local capacity building, and created a need to perpetuate TA. Also, at an
average of 65%, the implementation rate of the PIP remains low, again indicating limited institutional
capacity. Finally, since 1991, the need to deal with the current budget crisis has completely crowded out
efforts to improve investment programming; and investment expenditures dropped to CFAF 28 billion
in 1992, also reflecting the decline in donor assistance.
Cotton Sector Reforn
34.   This component attempted to: (a) increase COTONTCHAD's efficiency; (b) reform the cotton
producer pricing system; (c) implement a plan to settle COTONTCHAD's arrears; and (d) introduce a
cotton development program at the farm level.
Reform of COTONTCHAD
35.    Objectives. In order to increase COTONTCHAD's competitiveness in cotton production, the
government sought to find ways to reduce its operating costs; also, it decided to adopt a performance
contract for COTONTCHAD covering 1988-91.



16
36.   Results. This component is the program's major achievement. The performance contract was
adopted and proved to be an essential tool in monitoring CCTONTCHAD's operations. Consequently,
a second performance contract was adopted for 1991-94. Over the adjustment period, cotton production
costs were more than halved, from CFAF 913 per kg fiber in 1985-86, to CFAF 441 per kg fiber in
1989-90. Although impressive, the unit production costs remained slightly above the targets set in the
three-year performance contract that was adopted in 1988. This was largely due to COTONTCHAD's
failure to reduce fixed costs, which were on average 20% higher than the admittedly over-ambitious
targets set in the contract.
37.   Initially, COTONTCHAD's financial situation improved substantially. Helped by unexpectedly
high world cotton prices, the company realized a surplus for the first time in five years in the 1989-90
season. Unfortunately, this led to a weakening of cost consciousness. The unit production costs actually
increased in the following season, and the program to reduce cotton input costs was not pursued. When
world cotton prices dropped again sharply in 1991, this contributed to a cash flow deficit that,
accumulated over the next three cotton seasons, was too large to be covered by the newly established
Support Fund of CFAF 2.1 billion (see para. 39). After the 1992-93 cotton season, the accumulated loss
amounted to about CFAF 10 billion. COTONTCHAD also faced a liquidity crisis and while it collected
the entire 1992-93 cotton crop, it paid farmers partly in the form of IOUs. Apart from the decline in
world prices and weak management, the deteriorating public finance situation also contributed to
COTONTCHAD's financial crisis, since it reportedly became difficult to resist political pressures to
provide cash advances to the government and military.
Reform of the Producer Pricing System
38.    Objectives. To minimize financial risks for the government, COTONTCHAD and farmers in the
face of considerable uncertainty about world market prices, and to protect farmers' incomes while
ensuring a link between domestic producer prices and world market prices, the government sought to:
*     Introduce a floor price that would guarantee farmers a minimum revenue from cotton;
*     Introduce a purchase price, at least as high as the floor price, to be announced at planting
time;
*     Create a price support fund;
*     Introduce a price differential according to cotton quality.
39.   Results. In February 1990, the government formalized the new cotton producer pricing system.
The floor price was established at CFAF 90 per kg cotton-seed. A support fund of CFAF 2.1 billion was
created from which resources were to be drawn when export parity prices fell below the floor price. The
new pricing system includes a mechanism whereby COTONTCHAD's net cash flow position would be
distributed between farmers (through a purchase price in excess of the floor price), COTONTCHAD (to
cover depreciation), the support fund (to maintain a level of CFAF 2.1 billion) and the government.
However, after a surplus was realized in the 1989-90 season, the new pricing system dictated a CFAF
15 per kg purchase price increase; but, the company was reluctant to pass the surplus on to farmers.
Only after considerable insistence by the Bank did the new President authorize the increase in producer
prices of CFAF 10 per kg.



17
Settlement of COTONTCHAD's Arrears
40.   Objectives. To improve COTONTCHAD's financial viability and increase Chad's access to
Central Bank credit, the government sought to:
*     Reduce COTONTCHAD's arrears from CFAF 48 billion to CFAF 30.6 billion by
October 1988;
*     Establish a financing plan to settle the remaining arrears.
41.   COTONTCHAD accumulated CFAF 43 billion in arrears during the war and the cotton crisis.
CFAF 42 billion were rediscounted by the Central Bank in the war moratorium of 1984 and the cotton
crisis moratorium of 1988. The balance of one billion is being held by the primary banks. When
COTONTCHAD accumulated savings in excess of those expected during the cotton emergency program,
it reduced its arrears to CFAF 30.6 billion in 1988. In May 1988, the Central Bank agreed to freeze
CFAF 14.2 billion corresponding to the 1984 moratorium for a period of five years. With regard to the
balance due for the 1986 moratorium, it was agreed that the principal of CFAF 14.2 billion would be
reimbursed in two years. This repayment schedule was respected by COTONTCHAD and the last
payment of the principal was made in October, 1991.
Introduction of a Cotton Development Program at the Farm Level
42.   Objectives. To increase cotton productivity and improve farmers' incomes, the government
sought to:
-     Formulate a program to reduce input costs and widen the choice of inputs available to
farmers while continuing full cost pricing of agricultural inputs;
*     Redefine the responsibilities of ONDR (Office National de Developpement Rural) and
IRCT (Institut de Recherche du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques).
43.   The cost of inputs was reduced substantially, between 1988-90. Afterwards however, this
component suffered from the weakening of cost consciousness at COTONTCHAD. To develop more
efficient production techniques and get farmers to adopt them, the objectives and work programs of the
cotton research institute (IRCT) and the extension agency (ONDR) were redefined. IRCT succeeded in
making its research program more operational, but progress has been slow in selecting and distributing
new varieties with a higher-fiber yield. ONDR made headway in improving seed production and
promoting "marches auto-geres" for the primary marketing of cotton by farmer associations (which are
the result of a broad effort not only by ONDR, but by all parties in the cotton reform program).
However, progress lagged in improving extension services and distributing animal traction equipment.
Studies in Preparation of the Next Adjustment Phase
44.   With a view to preparing future policy reforms, the government sought to carry out studies on
the legal and institutional framework of public enterprises, the workings of five public enterprises, cross-
arrears of parastatals, the banking sector, and the composition, configuration and efficiency of public
administration



18
45.   Results.  Progress for this component was slow, but eventually, virtually all studies were
completed and some of their recommendations were implemented.
46.   With regard to public enterprise reform, a study of the enterprises' legal and institutional
framework was financed by the Economic and Financial Management Project (Cr. 1872-CD) and
completed under the FRC in 1990. Legal texts were prepared to authorize state divestiture and create
a divestiture management unit, "la Commission technique chargee du desengagement de l'Etat."
Diagnostic studies were completed for several public enterprises. By 1992, out of a total of 37 public
enterprises, seven were placed in liquidation: MAGAVET (Magasin General d'Approvisionnement en
Produits et Materiel Veterinaires), OFCA (Office National des Carrieres), SHT (Societe Hoteliere du
Tchad), SOTERA (Societe Tchadienne d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales), CTT (Cooperative des
Transporteurs du Tchad), OMVSD (Office de Mise en Valeur de Sategui - Deressia) and CSPC (Caisse
de Stabilisation des Prix du Coton). Three were targeted for privatization: AFF (Abattoir Frigorifique
de Farcha), SONAPA (Societ6 Nationale de Production Animale), and SIMAT (Socidt6 Industrielle de
Materiel Agricole du Tchad). The type of divestiture for Societe des Textiles du Tchad (STT) was still
to be decided. Thus, achievements under this component were considerable, but it should be stressed that
they were mainly attributable to the Economic and Financial Management Project (Cr. 1872-CD) and the
dynamism of the Bank staff working on public enterprise reform, and not to the FRC, per se.
47.   A study of the cross arrears of parastatals was carried out in 1989, but follow-up was slow and
incomplete. Afinancial sector study was completed in 1991, but no follow-up occurred. At the end of
1991, authorities reopened the "Banque de D6veloppement du Tchad" (against the Bank's advice),
although the government's holdings in the development bank were limited to no more than 25%.
48.   With respect to the study on public administration, it was agreed in 1989 that it would be
replaced by the technical assistance which USAID would provide to the civil service reform commission.
This program attempted to determine the essential tasks of the various departments and agencies as well
as the manpower required. Initially, it identified and implemented measures to encourage the departure
and retirement of some staff and the reallocation of others to priority areas. But progress was much
slower than initially planned, and the program's main outcome was the payroll computerization completed
in 1992.
Second Tranche Release
49.   During FRC negotiations, the government and Bank agreed that in addition to satisfactory
progress in implementing the overall adjustment program, the second tranche release would be contingent
upon:
*     Adoption of the three-year public investment program for 1989-91;
*     Approval of the supplementary budget for 1988;
*     Adoption of the current budget for 1989, including an increase in non-personnel
operating expenditures of development-oriented ministries;
*     Satisfactory completion of the review of COTONTCHAD's performance for the 1988-89
cotton season and a decision on lowering the floor price for the 1989-90 season;



19
*      Establishment of a fund to support the cotton producer floor price and a mechanism to
distribute the cotton sector surplus;
*      Significant progress in the public enterprise studies.
50.   The second tranche was released in April 1990, instead of November 1988 as originally
scheduled. While the conditions for tranche release were satisfied to the letter, it should be noted that
by 1990, developments on the public expenditure side raised the question of whether compliance was in
the spirit of the program. More precisely, while the budget adopted for 1989 did indeed provide for
considerable increases in non-personnel operational expenditures, actual expenditures on material and
supplies did not increase in 1989. Moreover, the 41 % increase in the wage bill that occurred in 1989
did not conform with the concept of substantially rebalancing expenditures in favor of non-personnel
operational outlays. With the advantage of hindsight, it can be argued these slippages significantly
contributed to the current financial crisis.
Suspension aad Cancellation
51.   The FRC, as stated in the Letter of Development Policy, was predicated, inter alia, on the
maintenance of a satisfactory macro-framework. Although the second tranche was released only in April
1990 (which indicated that the macro-framework was considered satisfactory)3, the change of government
in December 1990 caused considerable disruption in the FRC-supported adjustment program, especially
for the fiscal situation. As a result, the program could not continue and the credit was suspended. The
Bank decided not to cancel the credit but to informally suspend disbursements, which happened on April
1, 1991. The following conditions for lifting the informal suspension included:
*      Agreement between the government, Bank and IMF on the analysis of the 1990 budget
and adoption of a 1991 budget acceptable to the Bank and IMF;
*      Implementation of the performance plan for COTONTCHAD previously agreed upon
with the government;
*     Reaffirmation by the government of the cotton pricing policy and of its intention to
preserve COTONTCHAD's managerial autonomy.
52.   These conditions could not be met and on July 8, 1991 the Bank notified the Government of Chad
that it would formally suspend disbursements under the FRC (Cr. 1945-CD, A-037, and the Dutch grant).
However, the Bank indicated that due to the unusual and difficult circumstances, it would be willing to
consider the government's proposals for reformulating the program. A good policy dialogue was
maintained at the working level throughout this period and it was agreed that the credit would be made
available for an additional year beyond its closure date on June 30, 1991. It was decided that the two
components of the FRC program, public finance and cotton, would be separated, and that disbursements
under the Dutch grant (with US$3.9 million remaining) would be tied to performance in the cotton sector.
Only disbursements under the IDA and SFA credits would be contingent upon progress in public resource
management. There were several reasons for separating the two components. First, it was believed the
3      Although, as pointed out in para 50, developments on the public expenditure side had been worrisome even
before second tranche release.



20
prospects for meeting conditions to resume disbursements under the public finance component were much
lower than for the cotton component. Second, it was hoped that the Dutch grant would serve as an
incentive for the government to preserve achievements in the cotton sector and thus protect the sector
from the negative forces surrounding it, including the possibility that COTONTCHAD's revenues would
be used to mitigate the disastrous fiscal situation. Finally, it was hoped that the remaining IDA/SFA
credits would provide an incentive to continue the policy dialogue and bolster the voices of those who
supported development and proper financial management. The one-year specification set a limit on the
period during which the Bank was willing to wait for positive developments before considering
cancellation.
The Public Resource Management Component
53.   After the two components were separated, a revised Letter of Development Policy for the public
resource management component was prepared jointly by the Bank and the government with IMF input
and support. It refocused the operation on an action program that would stabilize the economy and help
establish "starting conditions" for a subsequent program of broad reform. The action program would
revolve around the three most immediate economic issues: (a) strengthening revenue performance; (b)
transferring resources from military to civil use; and (c) containing the civil service wage bill. Four
conditions needed to be met before the revised LDP could be signed. These were:
*     Professionalizing the customs service;
*     Agreeing on measures to contain the wage bill to CFAF 17.5 billion in 1992 and 1993;
*     Agreeing on the 1992 budget;
*     Establishing  appropriate administrative structures to  control expenditures and
accountability, coupled with abolishing the temporary structure created to replace the
IGCE.
54.   The government repeatedly expressed its commitment to stabilize the public finance situation and
get the adjustment program back on track. But, translating this commitment into action proved difficult.
In the second half of 1992, although the government approved measures to contain the wage bill, tax
receipts continued to drop and no progress was made in demobilizing the army. Consequently, the credits
were canceled in December 1992. And, although the IMF and Bank stressed that implementing one
component in isolation would not work economically, and would not bring donor support, the government
chose to go ahead with wage cuts.
The Cotton Component
55.   As mentioned above, following the separation of the two components in July 1991, it was agreed
that disbursement of the remaining US$3.9 million under the Dutch grant would be tied to performance
in the cotton sector only. Given that the cotton program under the FRC had effectively been completed,
the Dutch grant would support the next phase of the reform program. This new phase, which included
a second performance plan, was negotiated in September 1991 and a revised Letter of Sector Policy was
prepared. The conditions for resuming disbursements were that the government and COTONTCHAD:
*     Refine the new pricing policy;



21
*     Liquidate the CSPC (Caisse de Support des Prix de Cotton);
*     Produce terms of reference and a shortlist for a technical audit of COTONTCHAD;
*     Approve the second performance plan (1991-92 through 1993-94);
a     Sign the Amendment to the Dutch grant.
56.   Responding to COTONTCHAD's financial crisis in 1991, the Bank changed the conditions,
requiring that the second performance plan include more stringent measures to reduce costs and restore
liquidity. The purchase price was replaced by a bonus system: Where surpluses existed, they would be
passed on to producers through a bonus at the end of the season rather than through higher purchase
prices during the next season. Due to the financial crisis, the support fund had to be mobilized and the
producer floor price had to be reduced to CFAF 80 per kg cotton-seed in the 1992-93 season.
Subsequent losses prevented COTONTCHAD from replenishing the fund. When the conditions for
resuming disbursements were finally satisfied, the Bank amended the Dutch Grant Agreement (in June
1993) and it was signed by the Chadian government in July, 1993. However, at the same time, the
government signed an agreement with the French government to reform the cotton sector without
informing the Bank. Since this agreement threatened COTONTCHAD's financial objectives (contained
in the second performance contract), it was decided the Dutch grant would be suspended until the
government submitted financial objectives acceptable to the Bank. This condition was met in February
1994 and disbursements resumed in March 1994; also the process of implementing the technical audit of
COTONTCHAD, to be completed by July 1995, was begun.
Credit Monitoring and Administrotion
57.   Monitoring by the Government. Responsibility for monitoring the implementation and impact of
the st.-uctural adjustment program was with an Inter-Ministerial Committee, (chaired by the Minister of
Planning) that the government created for this purpose. In practical terms, the public resource
management component was monitored by the Ministries of Planning and Finance, while the cotton
component was monitored by the "Comite de Suivi et de Reflexion de la Filiere Coton,' as well as by
the managers of COTONTCHAD, IRCT and ONDR.
58.   Supervision by the Bank. Bank supervision was intensive, amounting to an average of 35.75 staff
weeks a year.
59.   Disbursements and Procurement. The credit reimbursed 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
eligible imports on the basis of evidence that they were imported and paid for after credit signing. Due
to Chad's acute funding shortage for the 1988 budget, retroactive financing of imports during the four
months that preceded the credit signing was also permitted (with a maximum of 20% of the respective
credit amounts). Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for US$10,000 or less were not eligible
for financing out of credit proceeds. Imports by private entities followed normal commercial practices.
For public sector imports, procurement was made through ICB for contracts of US$1 million or more,
while the purchaser's normal procurement procedures applied for smaller purchases. A special account
was opened for each credit (IDA Cr. 1945-CD and SFA Cr. A-37-CD) at the Central Bank.
60.   The FRC managument unit ("Sous-cellule de Gestion des Credits de Rehabilitation Financiere),
at the Central Bank (created in 1988), was responsible for monitoring disbursements and procurement.



22
It collected bills of import, to be presented for disbursement. In the opinion of all those involved, this
unit played an extremely important role in implementing the FRC. The government decided (although
not specified in the Credit Agreement and unorthodox as far as adjustment loans go) to use FRC
counterpart funds to settle arrears and fund the development ministries (para 23). The unit's vigilance
and commitment to Chad's development prevented the misuse of counterpart funds, especially during the
difficult period following the change in government. Even when disoursements were suspended, the unit
continued to gather import documents to present when disbursements would be resumed. It continued
to be well organized and well managed despite the difficult operating circumstances and it arranged for
appropriate audits.
61.    The unit had a difficult job documenting disbursement requests since, in the context of a
convertible currency, private operators had no incentive to submit invoices to a government agency. On
the contrary, importers feared that the documentation would not be separate from tax considerations.
These problems contributed to the slow rate of disbursement under the FRC, and point to the inadequacy
of Bank disbursement procedures for adjustment operations in countries with convertible currencies.
62.   Auditing and Counterpart Funds. Seven audit reports were completed by independent auditors
in accord with appropriate auditing principles: Three were prepared for the accounts of the FRC
management unit, three for the special accounts and one for COTONTCHAD which covered the accounts
closed on October 31, 1991. To ensure that the FRC's counterpart funds were used in ways that
conformed with its goals (particularly for funding non-salary expenditures of the key development
ministries and for settling arrears and cross-debts), the government authorized the management unit to
monitor their use.
Conclusions and Lessons from the FRC
63.    When evaluating the FRC, it is important to remember the context in which the operation was
designed. The country had barely recovered from a war and administrative capabilities were (and still
are) extremely limited. Thus, the government and Bank decided to phase reforms and limit the FRC's
scope to the most urgent elements of a long-term development program. The choice of the particular
elements was also justified: Government expenditures for development programs had virtually been
eliminated and strengthening public resource management was considered a prerequisite to effectively
delivering public services such as primary education, basic health care, agricultural extension and
infrastructure maintenance. The cotton sector, which earns the lion's share of the country's recorded
export earnings and is the main source of cash income for a large part of the population, badly needed
to be restructured in order to confront world price fluctuations in the context of a fixed exchange rate.
Nevertheless, given the current crisis, it is clear the FRC failed to improve performance in public
resource management and the cotton sector. Indeed, in 1993, Chad's public finance situation can
arguably be called disastrous, and the 1992-93 cotton season was the worst in the last five years. In part,
this was due to the chaos that prevailed after the change of government in 1990 and to the sharp decrease
in cotton prices after 1991.
64.   In the cotton sector, implementation was swift and complete during the first two years of the
program, and the results were impressive and tangible: Cotton production costs were more than halved.
However, when COTONTCHAD realized a surplus in the 1989-90 season for the first time in five years,
cost consciousness weakened. Partly as a result of that, the company plunged back into financial crisis
when world cotton prices plummeted in 1991, and it has yet to recover. But, it is hoped that the results



23
of the technical audit will provide a useful basis for improving COTONTCHAD's performance, by
identifying areas where costs can be reduced and productivity gains achieved.
65.   In the public resource management component, performance was weak from the first year.
Moderate improvements were made in the process and transparency of budgeting and in the divestiture
of public enterprises. Tax reform and improved tax administration initially resulted in a sharp rise in tax
revenues, and non-salary operational expenditures for key development ministries tripled (from almost
nothing) during the first year. But, these achievements were overshadowed by a 65% increase in the
wage bill between 1988-90, a substantial growth of military expenditures in 1990, and a stabilization of
operational expenditures for key development ministries after the first program year. Chad's current
deficit increased from 2% of GDP in 1988 to 5% in 1990. After the change of government at the end
of 1990, the financial situation worsened: tax revenues dropped sharply while expenditures increased
moderately (relative to earlier years). By 1992, the current budget deficit was estimated to be 6.1% of
GDP. In the light of these results, the following issues merit attention with a view to future program
design.
66.    Political commitment and ownership.
a.     Various factors may have contributed to the poor results with respect to public resource
management. The design of this component was unsound and the Bank seems to have underestimated
the weakness of agencies in charge of budget and expenditure procedures. Also, there was poor
coordination between the Ministry of Finance and line ministries regarding hiring. Moreover, the
lawlessness that prevailed after the regimes changed was destructive. All these factors partially prevented
the FRC from improving public resource management. But, without doubt, the bottom line was a lack
of political commitment and broad ownership of the program.
b.     Rebalancing public expenditures in favor of development outlays and improving budgeting
and expenditure procedures is extremely difficult when the trade-offs concern the benefits of politically
vocal groups such as civil servants and the military. While this is a problem in numerous African
countries, ethnic rivalries further complicate Chad's case. Its political economy involves various warring
ethnic factions, the control of whom is essential to maintaining a power base. Thus, it appears that
political commitment to maintaining this powerbase overshadows commitment to economic development
and that the use of public funds reflects this assessment. From the preparation stage onwards, it was
clear that budget transparency was virtually nil, military expenditures were high, and the extremely
centralized budget and expenditure process with multiple controls allowed for highly discretionary
applications. Moreover, an extraordinary amount of money, estimated at around CFAF 15 billion
annually, was being raised and used off-budget, such as with the "effort de guerre tax" paid by all
citizens. It was no surprise then, that the concept of improving the expenditure process met with strong
government resistance; indeed, when the Habre regime faced a breakdown of the coalition that constituted
its powerbase, it resorted to redirecting public resources to military expenditures in an attempt to regain
control. After the regimes changed, the new coalition's fragility seems to have been a critical reason why
the government failed to quickly scale down the size of the army and eliminate military "protection" of
the customs services -- which were no less than a pillage of the customs services by military factions.
Despite these problems, the risk taken with the FRC was worthwhile, because it attempted to break the
vicious circle.



24
C.     At a different level, the slowdown in the cotton program in 1990 can also be attributed
to limited ownership by key players. Apparently, neither COTONTCHAD nor certain donors felt the
results of the reform program were fragile and needed to be consolidated with further cuts in costs.
67.   Adequacy of the vehicle.
a.    Three issues need to be addressed. First, is an adjustment program the correct vehicle
to improve public resource management in the context of poor governance and political fragility?
Rebalancing expenditures, especially current expenditures, in favor of development outlays, has proven
an extremely difficult matter all over Africa. On the Bank's side, the expectations were too high given
the severity of the issues involved in reestablishing budget and expenditure procedures as well as in
containing personnel expenditures. Moreover, political commitment to expenditure reform seems to have
been especially weak (see para 66). Partly because of these conditions and the ensuing government
resistance to discussing improved resource management, the design of the public finance component was
overly ambitious, which left the program vulnerable. It may also have been too optimistic on the part
of the Bank and IMF to calculate fiscal benchmarks on the basis of civil salary wages maintained at 65%
of a scale established in 1967. As it is, one can reasonably argue that the budget support provided under
the FRC allowed the government to introduce an across-the-board salary increase, a measure that worked
against rebalancing expenditures in favor of non-personnel operational outlays.
b.     Second, given the convertibility of the currency, Chad was and is confronted mainly with
budget problems, not with balance-of-payment constraints. Adjustment operations, however, are designed
to provide balance-of-payment support. This leads to the broader question of whether providing quick-
disbursing funds for CFA countries like Chad is justified and if they are adequate for budget support;
and, defining the financing gap to include the public finance deficit along with the balance-of-payment
deficit seems to have proved counterproductive. Thus, the availability of adjustment funds permitted a
laxer attitude towards civil service salaries and hiring than would otherwise have been possible. Indeed,
it might have been wise to address the issue of fungibility of local currency resources during the early
period and in the design of the operation.
c.     Finally, current disbursement procedures certainly pose problems for countries with
convertible currencies. Private operators have no incentive to submit import bills to a government
agency; and the difficulties the FRC experienced in collecting invoices to document disbursement claims
have contributed to the slow rate of disbursement.
68.   A program with two speeds.
a.     Given the stark contrast in performance between the two components, one can question
whether it was justified to lin? them in one operation, especially since the two were very different and
required completely different supervision skills. The reasons for combining the two were pragmatic: The
public finance component was too weak to be approved without the cotton component and the Bank
wanted to follow-up the cotton emergency loan with another project; however, in the context of policy
reform, a cotton program alone might have seemed inadequate. Theoretically, an argument in favor of
a program with differing speeds is that swift progress in the faster component (for example, with tranche
releases) may trigger achievements in the component performing more poorly. An argument against such
a course is that, to the contrary, momentum may be lost for the faster component when tranche release
or effectiveness are delayed because of unsatisfactory progress in the slower component. In the case of
the FRC, reform of the cotton sector seems to have progressed despite the weak performance in the



25
public resource management component. The second tranche was released in spite of worrisome
developments on the public expenditure side and, in retrospect, that was unfortunate. Whether on the
cotton component of the FRC or in transport, sector operations seem to have performed better in Chad
than macro-economic reform programs. While the two are obviously linked, this observation suggests
further analysis in choosing the instruments (SAL v/s SECAL) best capable of successful implementation
in Chad.
69.    Po:t-suspension. After their formal suspension in July, 1991, the credits remained available for
18 months until they were canceled in December, 1992. The Bank opted for this approach because it
would allow it to quickly resume financial support if and when the government regained a satisfactory
level of economic management. In retrospect, it could be questioned if it was worthwhile to tie down
scarce resources for such a long period without tangible results. The consensus seems to be positive: The
approach provided the Bank with leverage needed to maintain a useful macro-economic dialogue on
regaining fiscal balance--a subject that was clearly a priority.
70.    Technical assistance. Given Chad's limited institutional capacity, technical assistance involvement
will be critical for designing and monitoring future reforms. However, specific attention needs to be paid
to carefully defining the type of assistance needed with a view to building institutional capacity. Indeed,
the FRC lesson is that the methodologies' level of sophistication (introduced by TA) needs to be
appropriate with respect to the capacity of local expertise; otherwise, TA will need to be perpetuated,
which limits the sustainability of reforms.
71.   Donor coordination. Donor coordination was generally perceived as constructive although at
certain points, donor viewpoints diverged. On macro-economic issues, coordination with the IMF as
well as with the French government was excellent, especially in the period after the program was
suspended. Coordination with the French was a key factor in redressing COTONTCHAD's financial
situation. However, after the company realized a surplus in 1989-90, the Bank and the French had
differmnt views on the need for reducing costs further, and this may have contributed to a weakening
of cost consciousness at COTONTCHAD. Coordination between the Bank and the African
Development Bank was less satisfactory: The two disagreed about the reopening of the Banque de
Developpement du Tchad as well as about future support to the cotton-growing zones.






27
PART 11. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE






29
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
FINANCIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT (1945-CD)
TABLE 1: CREDIT DATA
Amounts: SDR 32.4 million (US$44.1 niillion equivalent)
As of June 23, 1994
-(in US$ million)
Credit No.    Original     Disbursed     Cancelled     Repaid      Outstanding
C1945         16.20          6.93          9.25        0.0             7.22
CA037        28.08           16.49        11.59        0.0             16.70
TOTAL         44.            23.42        20.65                        23.92
Original Date    Actual Date
Initiating memorandum                                 January 20, 1988
Letter of Dev. Policy 4,Revised Draft)                September 18, 1991
Negotiations                        April 1988       June 13-20, 1988
Board Approval                      May 1988         July 26, 1988
Credit Agreement                    June 1988         August 5, 1988
Effectiveness                       August 1988       October 13, 1988
Credit Closing                      June 1990         June 30, 1992
Credit Suspension                                    July 8, 1991
Credit Carcellation                                   December 17, 1992
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(in US$ million)
|   FY89        FY90        FY91
(i) Planned            16.50        44.00       23.42
(ii) Actual             14.05        15.83      23.42
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)  85%          36%         100%



30
TABLE 2-A: MISSION DATA
Public Resource Management Component
Month/Year   Avg. No. of    No. of         Staff       Mission Date
Weeks        Persons     Weeks         of Report
Preparation                11/87          4.0            6          24.0         11/24/87
Appraisal                  02/88           5.0           7          35.0         03/31/88
Supervision I              12/89           7.3           4          29.2         02/21/90
Supervision II             04/91           8.0           10         80.0         05/13/91
Supervision III            12/91           5.0           5          25.0         12/30/91
Supervision IV             07/89           3.0           2           6.0         08/04/89
Supervision V - PFP        12/89          3.0            2          6.0         01/24/90
Supervision VI             09/90           2.0           3          6.0         10/06/90
Supervision VII            09/90          3.0            1          3.0         11/29/90
Supervision VIII           04/91          3.0            3          9.0         06/13/91
Supervision IX 4'          07/91          3.0            2          6.0         07/23/91
SupervisionX               11/91          3.0            2          6.0          12/30/91
Supervision XI             12/91          2.0            2          4.0         12/30/91
Supervision XII            05/92          2.0            2          4.0         06/17/92
Supervision XIII           11/92          2.0            2          4.0         11/10/92
TOTAL                                                    53        247.2
4/ In July 1991, the Credit was formally suspended. Consequently, it is probably not appropriate to use the term "supervision
mission" for missions occurring after that date. No forms 590 were issued for these missions.



31
TABLE 2-B: MISSION DATA
Cotton Component
Month/Year  Avg. No. of    No. of      Staff      Mission Date
Weeks         Persons    Weeks        of Report
Preparation */
Appraisal */
Supervision I            11/88         2.0          1         2.0
Supervision II          03/89          2.0          2         4.0
Supervision III         07/89          3.0          1         3.0          08/89
Supervision IV          10/89          2.0          1         2.0          02/90
Supervision V            03/90         2.0          2         4.0         07/20/90
Supervision VI           10/90         1.0          2         2.0         11/26/90
Supervision VII          04/91         1.0          2         2.0          06/91
Supervision VIII 5/      07/91         2.0          1         2.0
Supervision IX           04/92         2.0          1         2.0
Supervision X            07/92         1.0          1         1.0
Supervision XI           10/92         2.0          1         2.0
Supervision XII          07/93         2.0          1         2.0
TOTAL                                               16        28.0
*/ Same data as Public Resource Management Component
5/ In July 1991, the Credit was formally suspended. Consequently, it is probably not appropriate to
use the term "supervision mission" for missions occurring after that date. No forms 590 were issued for
these missions.



32
STAFF INPUT (Missions & Headquarters)
(in staffweeks)
_______    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94   TOTAL
LENP        1.5       8.1                                            .            9.6
LENA                 63.5                                                        63.5
LENN                 12.5    7.8                                                 20.3
SPN                          48.0    43.7    50.9    59.2    10.7    2.0         214.5
PCR                                                             0.4     8.0       8.4
TOTAL       1.5      84.1    55.8    43.7    50.9    59.2    11.1    10.0        316.3
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
No.                      DATE                               AMOUNT (US$ million)
1.                      11/18i88                                     1.412
2.                      01/26/89                                     .957
3.                      02/22/89                                     .956
4.                      03/31/89                                     .527
5.                      07/06/90                                     L.489
6.                       10/22/90                                    1.591
TOTAL Cr. 1945                                             6.93
7.                      11/18/88                                     1.451
8.                      12/09/88                                     1.081
9.                      01/26/89                                     .960
10.                      02/22/89                                     .950
11L                      03/13/89                                    1.475
12.                      03/30/89                                    1.266
13.                      04/13/89                                     .730
14.                      05/12/89                                    1.300
15.                      06107/89                                    1.230
16.                      09/22/89                                    1.269
17.                      12/22/89                                     .517
18.                      07/17/90                                    1.503
20.                      10/25/90                                    1.578
21.                      03/26/91                                    1.432
22.                      12/22/88                            less     .251
TOTAL CA037                                               16.49
TOTAL: Cr. 1945 + CA037                                       23.42



CIIAD: FINANCIAL. REIIAtIlITATION CRE,DIT POLICY MATRIX
P'OLICY AREAS AND OBIJECTIVES             KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN UNDER FRC                      IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
A. PUBILIC RESOURCE MANAGENIENT
Iicrease govenimlent revenue and improve the   Replace lhe diffcrenitiatel petroleuim import tax  Done.
efficiency of the tax system                   with a unitary consumption tax.
Reinforce the collection and recovery of the    Initially implemented, collapsed from end 1990
petroleum tax                                   on, tax administration is currently major problem.
Complete a comprelhensive tax policy review.    Review completed, major delays in
impleiiientation.
Enhance the operational capacity of key        Increase non-personnel operating expenditures for    Done, actual non-personnel operating expenditures
development ministi-ies.                       the second semester of 1988 in key development   tripled for the key ministries.
ministries.
Include increased non-personnel operating       Done. However, actual non-personnel operational
expenditiures key dlevelopnient ministries in 1989  expenditures did not increase for the key
budget.                                         inuistries.
Strenigthen expenditure authorization and       Improved expenditure nomenclature adopted in
monitoring procedures.                          1987. Investment expenditures included in
Govemment budget since 1988. Since 1990,
budget law provides for all taxes and revenues to
be collected by Treasury. Incorporation of
operations of public entities into budget incurred
delays and was only implemented partially. IGCE
abolished in 1991, but replaced by similar
structure only months later.



POLICY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES               KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN UNDER FRC                      IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
Improve the efficiency of public investment.   Adopt a rolling PIP for 1989-91 and beyond.     Done but limited to cataloging of projects.       x
Strengthen PIP preparation and evaluation.      Done but not in a sustainable way due to overly
sophisticated methodologies introduced by TA.
Low implementation rate of PIP is a problem.
Formulate sectoral strategies and organize aid  Development strategies for livestock and transport
coordination meetings.                          adopted and under implementation. Development
strategies for health and edtication sectors prepared
with considerable delays. Sectoral aid
coordinalion meetings held for transport,
agriculture and education sectors.
COT0TON SECTOR
Increase COTONTCIIAD's competitiveness in      Identify and implement measures to reduce       Done. COTONTCIIAD's financial and
cotton production.                             COTONTCHAD's operating costs.                   administrative services were moved to Moundou.
Reorganization and training of personnel were
implemented, altihoughi only parlially. Transport
prices declined witli dismantling of transport
monopoly. Costs were halved but cost
consciousness weakened after 1989/90. Major
additional measures are necessary.
Adopt 1988/89-1990/91 performance contract      Done. Performance contract proved to be
essential element in monitoring COTONTCHAD's
perfornmance. In 1991, a new three-year
performance contract was adopted



POILICY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES               KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN UNDER FRC                       IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
Reform the producer pricing system in order to  Introduce a floor price to be announced several  Done. Floor price initially set at CFAF 90 per kg
minimize financial risks for Ihe Government,    months before tlie start of t(ie planting season.  cottonseed. Reduced to CFAF 80 in 1992/93 due
COTONTCIIAD and cotton farmers.                                                                 to fall in world cotton prices.
Introduce a purchase price, at least as high as the  Done. Replaced in 1992 by bonus to be paid
floor price, lo be announced at planting time.  immediately after cotton campaign.
Introduce a CFAF 2.1 billion price support fund.  Done. Had to be mobilized in 1991 after sharp
decrease in world cotton prices.
Settle COTONTCHAD's arrears to improve the      Reduce COTONTCHAD's arrears from CFAF 48    Done under Cotton Emergency Program.
financial viability of the company and increase  billion to CFAF 30.6 billion.
Chad's access to Central Bank credit.
Establish a financing plan to settle the remaining  Done. In 1988 Central Bank agreed to freeze
arrears.                                         1984 moratorium for 5 year. Last payment of
principal of 1986 moratorium repaid in 1991.
Adopt a Cotton Development Program to increase    Formulate a program to reduce input costs and  Implemented partially. Full cost pricing remained
colton productivity and improve farmer's incomes.   wideii choice of inputs available to farmer while  in effect. Input costs were reduced substantially
conitiniuling full cost pricing of agricultural inputts.    between 1988 and 1990. FIurther improvement of
input program suffered from weakening of cost
consciousness after 1990, and from current
financial crisis.
Redefine responsibilities of ONDR and IRCT.     Done. Responsibilities were redefined. Major
tasks still ahead include improving selection and
distribution of varieties with higher ginning
efficiency (IRCT) and improving extension
services (ONDR).
I                                                                       11 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



POLICY AREAS AND OBJECTIVES               KEY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN UNDER FRC                     IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
PRFPARATION OF NEXT ADJUSTMENT
PlIASE
Prepare futiire policy reforms                 Study on legal and institutional franmework of  Completed in 1990, legal texts prepared but not
public en(erprises.                            adopted.
Diagnostic study of S public enterprises.      Completed. By 1992, 7 public enterprises put into
liquidation, 3 targeted for privatization and type of
divestiture for STT remained to be decided.
Study on cross arrears of parastatals.         Completed but follow-up was only partial.
Study of the banking seclor.                   Completed but no follow-up.
Study of the composition, configuration and    Decided to replace study by USAID TA program.
efficiency of the public administration        Progress under this program was very slow.
Computerization of payroll finalized in 1992.












7v AJ i ti1 (G
L                    14FAa 1,  1
S-pe-rt Fc  :               1 4.- C, I
I yP:e . FCR



