Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-37 CD
African Facility Credit Agreement
(Financial Rehabilitation Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated August 5, 1988
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-37 CD
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR 
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International Development Association 
(IDA) have established by their Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21,
1985 (the Resolution), a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African 
Facility) constituted by the funds which shall be contributed by the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other donors and administered 
by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in 
accordance with, the provisions of the Resolution; 
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter dated June 20, 1988 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
contribute to the financial rehabilitation of certain sectors of the Borrower's 
economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Administrator in the financing of urgently 
needed imports required during such execution and the Administrator has determined 
that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide additional assistance in 
support of the Program, and, by an agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and IDA (the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to eleven million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,900,000) (the IDA Credit);
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower and the Administrator intend, to the extent practicable, 
that the proceeds of the African Facility Credit provided for in this Agreement be 
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Program before disbursements of 
the proceeds of the first tranche of the IDA Credit provided for in the Development 
Credit Agreement are made; provided, however, that non-eligible expenditures under 
this Agreement shall be financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit; 
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development Fund (ADF) 
a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount of thirty million ADF Units of Accounts to assist 
in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF; and
(F)
on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Administrator has decided 
in support of the Program to extend the African Facility Credit to the Borrower in two 
tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated January 1, 1985, with 
the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association", when used in the General Conditions, means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the African Facility, 
except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
when used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "African Facility Credit 
Agreement", "African Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", 
respectively;
(c)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted; 
 
(d)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(e)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the African Facility Credit pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to the 
African Facility Credit Agreement.";
 
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Administrator, the 
Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the African Facility Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the African Facility Credit Agreement 
and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the African Facility Credit."; and
(g)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  3
(a)
"Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with respect to which the 
terms and conditions of membership are those prescribed in the Articles of Agreement 
of IDA for countries whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those 
Articles;
(b)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and IDA for the Program, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and 
all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Development Credit Agreement;
(c)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
(d)
"CFAF" and "CFA Franc" mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement; 
(f)
"BEAC" means the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale;
 
(g)
"COTONTCHAD" means Societe Cotonniere du Tchad, a company established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower and registered in the Registre du Commerce of 
the Borrower on November 1, 1971 under No. 12/B/72; and
(h)
"Development-Oriented Ministries" means the following ministries or any 
successor thereof: Ministere de l'Agriculture, Ministere de l'Elevage et de 
l'Hydraulique Pastorale; Ministere des Travaux Public, Habitat et Urbanisme; Ministere 
des Transports et de l'Aviation Civile; Ministere de l'Education Nationale; Ministere 
de la Sante Publique; Ministere des Affaires Sociales et de la Promotion Feminine; et 
Ministere du Tourisme et de la Protection de l'Environnement.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the African Facility Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit may be withdrawn 
from the African Facility Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expenditures for goods 
procured in the territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; (ii) any country 
designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions set forth in paragraph 4 (f) 
(ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in BEAC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the African Facility Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a 
rate to be set by IDA as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
Page  4
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account or 
cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied as of the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, except that the rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 
1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as IDA shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the amount withdrawn from the 
African Facility Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 1999 and ending on July 
15, 2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2008 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by IDA, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five 
consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, IDA may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive 
Directors of IDA and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not 
yet due until the principal amount of the African Facility Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, IDA may revise such modification to include, 
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with IDA on the principal amount of the 
African Facility Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of IDA, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, IDA determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, IDA may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09, (a) BEAC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BEAC with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the African Facility Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence 
to be furnished to the Administrator in support of such applications; such withdrawal 
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for 
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $300,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the eligibility 
restriction set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African 
Facility Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the African 
Facility Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the African 
Facility Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Page  6
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) an event has occurred which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IDA Credit or 
the ADF Loan made to the Borrower in support 
of the Program shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or 
(B)
the IDA Credit or the ADF Loan shall have become due and 
payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Administrator that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds required during the execution of the Program 
are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the African Facility Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of 
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of IDA decide to 
terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of the African Facility pursuant to 
paragraph 10 of the Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, 
designate another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall assume part 
or all of the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement in 
accordance with the Resolution and such decision of the Executive Directors, as 
specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Adoum
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
  SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By /s/ Michael Gillette
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the African Facility Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be withdrawn from the African Facility 
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during 
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
Page  8
sub-groups:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
 
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco refuse
 
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitute)
525
   -
Radio-active and associated materials
 
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of such other country;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,100,000 
may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date but 
after March 1, 1988;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent; 
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Administrator shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds 
of the African Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account and 
the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 
9,200,000, unless the Administrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Administrator: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken.
4.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the 
Administrator shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Administrator, 
then the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount 
of the African Facility Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Procurement
1.
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, contracts for the procurement of goods by the Borrower or public sector 
entities estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded 
through international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement: under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), 
subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the 
bidder 
to state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be stated in the tender or 
prequalification documents for the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph I of 
this Schedule.
3.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 
each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the 
purchaser of such goods.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to the submission to the 
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the African 
Facility Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such 
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for 
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such 
other information as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to the submission to the 
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the African 
Facility Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the 
Administrator may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of 
such contract.
6.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Schedule, where 
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, 
the copies of such contract or the documentation and the information to be furnished 
Page  10
to the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this 
Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the Administrator as part of the 
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
7.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Administrator has authorized withdrawals from the 
African Facility Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower has:
1.
adopted its three-year public investment program for 1989-1991;
 
2.
implemented the supplementary budget for 1988 in accordance with the Program;
 
3.
adopted its 1989 budget for current expenditures, including an increase in 
non-personnel operating expenditures of development-oriented ministries;
4.
completed the review of COTONTCHAD's performance for the 1988/89 cotton crop 
year, and lowered the floor price for the 1989/90 cotton crop year;
5.
established a fund to support cotton producer floor price and mechanism for 
distributing cotton sector surplus; and
6.
made significant progress in the public enterprises studies.
 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
420,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows: 
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator requests for 
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify. On the basis of such requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the 
African Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as 
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the 
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each 
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility Credit 
Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the 
Page  11
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Administrator when 
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals can be 
made by the Borrower directly from the African 
Facility Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the African Facility Credit, minus 
the amount 
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the 
Program, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African Facility Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No 
further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has made such deposit or refund. 
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting to 
the African Facility Credit Account.
