Page  1
June 22, 1993
His Excellency Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Amendment: Dutch Grant Agreement (Financial Rehabilitation Credit) -  No.  
1945
Excellency:
We refer to the Dutch Grant Agreement (Republic of Chad - Financial 
Rehabilitation Credit), dated August 31, 1990, as amended November 21, 1990, between 
the Republic of Chad (the Recipient) and the International Development Association, as 
administrator of Dutch Funds provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation of 
the Netherlands (the Administrator). Further to the discussions held with the 
representatives of the Recipient, we are pleased to inform you that the Administrator 
hereby agrees to the following amendments to the above-referenced Dutch Grant 
Agreement.
1.
The whereas clause (A) of the Preamble is amended by deleting the following 
parenthetical: "(the Program)".
2.
Section 1.01 is amended by replacing the "." at the end of paragraph (h) with 
";", and inserting thereafter:
"(i) the term "Cotontchad" means the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad, a 
company organized 
under the laws of Chad; 
 
(j)  the term "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and 
policies 
described in the Recipient's letter dated April 22, 1993;
 
(k)  the term "Program Expenditures Table" means the table entitled 
"Contrat-Plan II 
Revise, Tableau II - Plan de Financement Don Neerlandais" annexed 
to the Recipient's letter  dated April 22, 1993 describing the Program; and
 
(l)  the term "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of 
this Agreement."
 
3.
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 is amended and restated to read in its entirety as 
follows:
"(a) The Proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(which schedule is attached 
as Annex 1 to this Amendment). Except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for:
 
(i)  goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant 
shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, which is hereby 
incorporated into this Agreement with the 
same force and effect as 
if it were fully set forth herein, it being 
understood that the 
references in said Schedule to the 'Association' shall be 
deemed to be 
references to the Association acting as Administrator of the 
Dutch Grant, and (ii) services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch 
Grant shall be procured as follows: the Recipient shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall 
be satisfactory to the Administrator, and such 
consultants shall be selected 
in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Administrator 
an the basis of the 
'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and 
Page  2
by the World Bank as Executing Agency' published by the Bank in 
August 
1981."
4.
Section 2.04 is amended and restated to read in its entirety as  follows:
 
"The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 
Administrator 
shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date."
5.
Section 3.01 is amended by deleting all references therein to "Article IV of the 
Development Credit Agreement".
6.
The following is inserted as Sections 3.02 of Article III:
 
Section 3.02. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, 
the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)  a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out; and (b)  the 
macro-economic policy framework 
of the Recipient is not consistent with the 
objectives of the Program."
7.
The provisions of Annex 1 to this Amendment are incorporated into the Dutch 
Grant Agreement as Schedule I thereof.
8.
This Amendment shall not become effective until the suspension of the 
Recipient's right to make withdrawals under the Dutch Grant Agreement, declared by the 
Administrator by telex dated July 8, 1991, shall have been lifted.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating 
the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided and 
returning one original, as countersigned, to us.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Director
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
International Development Association,
  as administrator of the Dutch Grant
Confirmed
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date: 07/07/93
Annex 1
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch Grant Account for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Program 
and to be financed out of such proceeds.  The table
below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  3
Dutch Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Dutch Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                   Amount of the
       Dutch Grant
Allocated                % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category           
f. Equivalent)        to be Financed
 
(1)
Goods and 
  9,100,000           100%
Services
(2)    Consultants'           
  100%
       Services for
       (a)  Technical Audit           700,000
            of Cotontchad
      (b)  Financial Audit            200,000
           of Cotontchad for
           fiscal year ending
           October 31, 1992
      TOTAL                        10,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Administrator by notice to the Recipient:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
   -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                    or not containing tobacco
                    substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667 
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or
worked
718
718.1
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728.43
   -
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch casso)
and goldsmiths, or silversmiths,
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services 
Page  4
supplied from the territory of the Recipient, excluding, if the currency of the 
Recipient is also that of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of such other country;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement (i.e., 
August 31, 1990);
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Administrator shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and 
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Recipient in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant under Category (1) of paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule:
(a)
after the aggregate of such proceeds of the Dutch Grant withdrawn from 
the Dutch Grant Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached 
the equivalent of f. 4,300,000, unless the Administrator shall be satisfied, based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Administrator, that f. 2,000,000 equivalent shall have 
been expended by the Recipient after June 30, 1992 on the activities described, and in 
accordance with the budget set forth, in the Program Expenditures Table; and
(b)
after such aggregate and total shall have reached the equivalent of 
f.6,300,000, unless the Administrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Administrator: (i) with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
the carrying out of the Program (ii) that the actions described in paragraph 5 below 
have been taken, and (iii) that f. 4,000,000 equivalent shall have been expended by 
the Recipient after June 30, 1992 on the
activitiesdescribed, and in accordance with the budget set forth, in the    Program 
Expenditures Table.
4.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3(b) above, the 
Administrator shall have given notice to the Recipient that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Recipient shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, then the Administrator may, by notice to the
Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Dutch Grant or any part thereof.
5.
The actions referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) above are the following:
 
a.
Modification, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, of the 
convention, dated September 10, 1985, between the Recipient and Cotontchad and all 
other relevant legal texts to conform to: (i) the revised pricing formula for farmers 
agreed upon with the Administrator, (ii) the revised surplus distribution formula 
between Cotontchad and Government agreed upon with the Administrator, and (iii) 
liquidation of Cotton Price Stabilization Fund.
b.
Adoption and implementation by Cotontchad of a commercial policy for oil 
and soap production acceptable to the Administrator.
c.
Implementation of the action plan agreed upon with the Administrator 
regarding the recommendations set forth in the financial audit of Cotontchad for its 
fiscal year ending October 31, 1991.
d.
Receipt by the Administrator of (i) a financial audit, of such scope and 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonable requested and made in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, prepared by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Administrator, of Cotontchad's records and accounts for its 
fiscal year ending October 31, 1992, together with explanations by Cotontchad of any 
Page  5
deviations between its initial
budget for such year and actual expenditures, and (ii) adoption of an action plan, 
acceptable to the Administrator, to implement the recommendations of such. audit.
e.
(i)  Completion of a technical audit of Cotontchad's operations, under 
terms if reference acceptable to the Administrator, (ii) adoption of an action plan, 
acceptable to the Administrator, to implement the auditor's recommendations, and (iii) 
implementation, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, of the actions set out in 
such action plan relating either to the cotton ginning activities or to the oil/soap 
production activities.
f.
Adoption by the Recipient and Cotontchad of an action plan, acceptable to 
the Administrator, for settlement of the cross-debt situation between the Recipient 
and Cotontchad. 
g.
Application of the revised pricing and surplus distribution formulas, 
agreed upon with the Administrator, to Cotontchad Is activities beginning with its 
1990-1991 campaign.
