Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11518
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2036-UNI)
DECEMBER 31, 1992
World Bank Resident Mission in Nigeria
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Glossary
ASG                  Anambra State Government
ASESA                Anamnbra State Environmental Sanitation Authority
M/M                  Man-months
N                    Naira
OLG                  Onitsha Local Government
PCR                  Project Completion Report
SAP                  The Federal Government Macro-Economrics Structural
Adjustment Program initiated in 1986
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SMH                  Anambra State Ministry of Health



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect (Loan 2036-UNI)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Nigeria - Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2036-UNI)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No contribution was received from the
Borrower.
The project had too many components each of which was reduced in
scope during implementation.  The project only achieved part of its physical
objectives due, in a large part to design and procurement deficiencies.  The
implementing agency's financial situation is very poor. Accordingly, the project
outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and the sustainability of institutional
improvements and other benefits achieved under the project (e.g. improved water
supply and solid waste collection services) is rated as unlikely.
The Project Completion Report, prepared by the Bank's Resident
Mission in Nigeria, is marginally satisfactory as it fails to highlight the
Bank's inadequate preparation and appraisal performance.  The project will be
audited.
(C
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2036-UNI)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                           i
Evaluation Summary                                                                ii
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity                                                            1
Background                                                                  1
Project Objective and Description                                           2
Project Design and Organization                                             4
Project Implementation                                                      5
Project Results                                                             7
Project Sustainability                                                      8
Bank Performance
Borrower Performance                                                       10
Consultant Services                                                        11
H.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                  12
iM.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                    13
Table 1. Related Bank Loans                                                13
Table 2. Project Timetable                                                 14
Table 3. Loan Disbursements                                                14
Table 4. Targets Achieved by Project Completion                            1S
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing                                        16
Table 6. Project Results                                                   17
Table 7. Status of Covenants                                               18
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources                                             19
ANXES
A.    Anambra State Water Corporation - Financial Highlights 1983-1990           20
B.    Anambra State Water Corporation Revenue Accounts, 1983-1990                21
C.    Anambra State Water Corporation Balance Sheet, 1984-1990                   22
D.    Anambra State Water Corporation - Connections, Billings and Collection,    23
1986-1990, Water Production 19801990.
E.    Anambra State Water Corporation - Staffing Contingent by Level             24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2036-UNI)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Anambra Water and Sanitation
Project in Nigeria for which Loan 2036-UNI in an amount of US$67 million was approved on
July 7, 1981. The Loan was closed on July 31, 1991, 3 years and 10 months after the
original closing date. An unutilized balance of US$2,655.22 was canceled on September 6,
1991.
2.    The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and m of the PCR were prepared by the
Resident Mission in Nigeria with comments and contributions from current and previous staff
members of the Infrastructure Division of the Western Africa Department. In August 1991,
Anambra State was divided to create two new states: Anambra and Enugu. The assets of the
old Anambra State, including the agencies responsible for implementing the project, are being
divided up between the two new states. The authorities of the new States were invited to
prepare a project review from the Borrower's perspective on November 7, 1991 and to this
date no review has been received. In early February 1992 the same authorities were invited
to comment on drafts of Parts I and m of this report with a request to prepare Part II by
March 31, 1992. The comments to Parts I and III were received on June 5, 1992, however,
no reply has been received to date with regards to Part IH.
3.    Preparation of the PCR was started in October 1991 and was based inter alia, on the
following sources: the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Project and State Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence and discussions between the Bank, state authorities and
executing agencies and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2036-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objetives       
1.    The project's overall objective was to enhance living conditions in Anambra State by
improving water supply, solid waste collection and disposal, urban infrastructure and health
education. The project's physical works addressed the needs of the State's second largest
city, Onitsha, which was to serve as an example for other urban centers in the state. Though
not mentioned in the legal agreements, an implicit objective was the establishment of
autonomous institutions with the necessary human and financial resources to provide water
and sanitation on a financially sustainable basis (Part I, paras 6 and 7).
Implementation Experience
2.    Project implementation took almost four years longer than expected. The delay was
due to a variety of factors which included: late releases of counterpart funds; initial delays in
obtaining the necessary exchange control clearances to import equipment; frequent changes in
Anambra State Government (ASG) officials, which sometimes resulted in misunderstandings
on procurement issues that had to be resolved, and unforeseen developments during project
implementation (Part I, para 13).
3.    The most important unforeseen developments were in the water supply component
which was the largest in the project. These were (i) siltation of treatment plant's raw water
intake at the Nkisi river which required construction of a new intake 2.9 km upriver; (ii) an
increase in demand for water in Onitsha resulting from higher than projected population
growth, which required drilling of new boreholes and an extension of the water distribution
system, and (iii) substantial devaluations of the naira which altered the relative costs of treated
surface and borehole water and changed the Anambra State Water Corporation's (ASWC's)
water development strategy (Part I, paras 15 to 18).
4.    When the Onitsha Local Government (OLG) took longer than expected to start
implementing the solid waste collection and disposal component, the State authorities
established the Anambra State Environmental Sanitation Authority (ASESA) to assume
responsibility for it. Project implementation made good progress thereafter (Part I, para 19).
5.    The cost of urban drainage works proved to be substantially higher than estimated
during appraisal and the scope of the component had to be reduced. However, the four
strategically placed drains that were constructed greatly reduced the risk of flooding in
Onitsha. Upgrading works in the Okpoko low-income area were not carried out because of
unresolved differences with the Bank over procurement procedures and also to save costs (see
Part I, para. 20).



- iii -
6.     Only a small part of the health education component was carried out as the State's
Ministry of Health was fully occupied with other programs (Part I, para 21).
Results
7.     The project succeeded in substantially improving water supply, drainage and sanitation
services in Onitsha and both the ASWC and the ASESA improved their internal efficiency
with technical assistance (Part I, paras 22 and 37-39). The scope of policy and institutional
objeetives was expanded during project implementation as commercialization of water and
sanitation services was undertaken in Anambra State as a whole, rather than in Onitsha only,
as originally intended (Part I, paras 19 and 23).
8.     ASWC took early steps to improve its financial performance. Progress in the
efficiency of billing and collections started in the early stages of project implementation. The
ASG supported the necessary tariff increases to enable ASWC to recover higher proportions
of operating costs and eventually gave ASWC the freedom to make limited tariff adjustments
without reference to it. In spite of increases in operating expenses due to devaluations of the
naira, ASWC increased its operating cost recovery ratio from 28 percent in 1983 to 91
percent in 1989. However, the ratio declined to 81 percent as costs increased faster than
revenues in 1990. The objective of recovering part of capital costs from consumers was not
met, initially because ASG was reluctant to approve sufficiently large tariff increases, but
eventually because repeated devaluations of the naira made it impossible for ASWC to service
the Bank loan, as provided in arrangements for the project (Part I, paras 24 and 25). ASESA
also made progress towards financial self-sufficiency up to 1988, but its performance declined
somewhat the following year (Part I, para 26). The State has intervened and is servicing the
foreign debt through its foreign currency earnings from the Federation account. The Borrower
has therefore been advised to treat the foreign debt as equity from the State.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    The project demonstrated that consumers are prepared to contribute to the cost of
water provided that its quality is acceptable and its supply regular. Substantial progress was
made during the project period towards the recovery of operating costs through water charges.
The governments of the two states that have recently been created out of Anambra could build
on the success achieved by ASWC by allowing their water utilities greater flexibility to set
tariffs so that operating costs are fully recovered and an increasing proportion of capital costs
to be recovered over a period of time. This would enable their water corporations to invest in
further improvements of water services at a moderate cost to state treasuries (Part I, para 28).
10.   Delays in providing State Government contributions to the project slowed down
execution on several occasions. Means of assuring regular and uninterrupted counterpart fund
contributions should be put in place by Federal and State authorities for future projects (Part
I, para 34).
11.   Loan closing date extensions were granted by the Bank one year at a time though in
some cases it was evident that a longer time period was required to complete the project. The
Bank should extend closing dates by longer periods than one year when there are good
grounds for doing so (Part I, para 32).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2036-UNI)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name: Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Loa: 2036 - UNI of US$ 67 million dated November 13, 1981
RVP Unit: Africa
County: Nigeria
Sco: Infrastructure
Subseo: Water supply and sanitation.
Background
2.    Nigeria has the largest urban population in Africa. It is estimated that 35 percent of its total
population of about 88.5 million live in urban areas, of which one quarter live in cities of one million
inhabitants or more. While the overall rate of populations growth is estimated at 3.4 percent per
annum, urban population is estimated to have increased at 6.2 percent per annum over the last
decade.
3.    The pace of urban population growth has overtaken the capacity of local authorities to provide
the necessary services. Many Nigerian cities have extensive low income areas with limited piped
drinking water services and no sewage disposal services; stormwater drainage and adequate
transportation services are also frequently lacking. State governments have the primary responsibility
for developing water supply services. At the time of appraisal of this project, water services were
provided only in the principal urban centers and as a social service, with little attempt to recover costs
from consumers. The extent of such services were consequently limited to the resources that state
governments could provide from their budgets, which were (and continue to be) limited in relation to
total development needs. Local governments were responsible for sanitation services, but they had
even more limited resources and, in addition, lacked sufficient management capacity with the result
that sanitation services were almost totally lacking in most parts of the country.



2
4.    The Federal Government attached high priority to orderly urban development and in 1976-77
asked the Bank to review water supply needs and programs in several states. These reviews resulted
in the identification of the first water supply project financed by the Bank in Nigeria: the Kaduna
State Water Project for which a Loan was approved in 1979. The project reviewed in this PCR was
the second financed by the Bank in the water supply sector. It was appraised in late 1979 and the
Loan became effective in March 1982. As the Kaduna Water Supply project had only
recently started implementation when this one was appraised, it was not possible to derive many
lessons from it that could be applied to the Anambra project.
5.    In Anambra State, more than three quarters of the urban population was not served by piped
water at the time of appraisal. Sewerage, drainage, refuse and human waste disposal services were
even more limited. There were no water borne sewerage services and only about 4 percent of the
urban population used septic tanks and -pit latrines. About one quarter relied on bucket latrines, with
the rest having no systematic means of human waste disposal. By the late 1970s, the Anambra State
Government (ASG) had determined that water supply and sanitation services should be significantly
improved in Onitsha, the State's second largest city, which had suffered considerable damage during
the 1967-70 Civil War. The difficulties caused by inadequate physical facilities, which had been
severely damaged in the hostilities, were compounded by Onitsha's rapid population growth, which
resulted from its favorable location as a trade center.
Proiect Objectives and Description
ODbiectives
6.    The project's overall objective was to enhance living conditions in Anambra State by assisting
the authorities improve and extend water supply services, solid waste and nightsoil collection and
disposal, urban infrastructure and health education in Onitsha.
7.    Though not specifically mentioned in the Legal Agreements but nevertheless implicit in the
Staff Appraisal Report, a principal objective of the Project was to develop autonomous institutions
with the necessary management and technical expertise, and internal financial resources, to provide
water supply and sanitation services on a sustained basis in Anambra State. The establishment of such
institutions would make it possible to spread the benefits of the project to urban centers other than
Onitsha.
Project Description
8.    The project consisted of the following principal components to:
(A) for water supy
(a)    upgrade and extend the existing Nkisi intake and water treatment plant capacity from
11,000 m3/day to 40,000 m31day;
(b)   increase service storage capacity from 4,500 m3/day to 45,000 m3/day;



3
(c)    add 87 km of tranismission and 160 km of distribution mains;
(d)   install about 260 new public standpipes;
(e)   supply 6,000 water meters and materials to connect private subscribers;
(f)    construct and equip a new Anambra State Water Corporations (ASWC) headquarters
in Enugu, zonal offices in Onitsha, workshops in Enugu and Onitsha and staff
quarters for 6 taanagerial and 30 junior staff;
(g)    provide 246 man-months (m/m) of technical assistance for project management;
commercial and financial operations; training; mechanical, electrical and distribution
network maintenance, and water treatment and metering;
(h)    provide overseas training for ASWC senior staff and the development of a training
section within ASWC;
(B)   for Solid Waste and Nightsoil Collection
(i)    provide refuse vehicles, equipment and slurry tankers;
j)    establish maintenance and parking facilities for vehicles;
(k)    design and construct a landfill disposal facilities;
provide 84 m/m of technical assistance for sanitation, vehicle maintenance, town
planning, traffic management and municipal finance;
(C)   for Urban Infrastructure
(im)   construct 1.4 km of large canals and 4 km of main and secondary drains to dispose of
floodwater during the rainy season;
(n)    provide roadside drainage improvements in the Okpoko low-income area to facilitate
water and sanitation services;
(o)    construct 3.5 km of roadside drains and remove drain bottlenecks;
(p)    provide public toilet blocks at four market sites;
(D) for Health Education
(q)    establish a pilot health office in Onitsha;
(r)    construct additional classrooms and accommodation in the State health superintendent
school;



4
(s)    supply equipment-to teach good hygiene practices in primary schools;
(t)    provide 6 mJm of technical assistance to the State Ministry of Health for the pilot
office;
(E) General
(u)    provide consultancy services for the design and supervision of all components.
Proiect Design and Orzanization
9.     There were two principal features of the project that were innovative in Anambra State. The
first was that, up to the time the project was undertaken, ASWC's function was to ensure the physical
delivery of water, while billing and collection of water charges were carried out by local
governrments. The efficiency of billing and collections was not high and local governments kept most
of the funds collected to cover their own expenditures. On the other hand, ASWC's production costs
were met with funds provided by the State treasury. Thus, water revenues were unrelated to
production costs. As part of the project, and in order to recover the higher cost of treated surface
water, ASG accepted that ASWC should commercialize its operations and assume responsibility for
billing and collecting, with the ultimate objective of making ASWC financially self-sufficient. The
second was that technical innovations in waste disposal were introduced with the sanitation
component. The use of more appropriate equipment, such as night soil slurry tankers instead of
buckets, and tractors to pull specialized refuse containers, was to greatly improve the efficiency of
sanitation services.
10.    Given that 40,000 m3/day of raw water were required for the level of treated water supply
services envisaged for Onitsha by 1988, three possible sources of supply were considered during
appraisal. One was to extract groundwater from aquifers bordering the Niger River, but this was
discarded because of insufficient data on the aquifers. The other was to use surface water from a
more reliable source on the Idemili River; this was, however, at a greater distance from Onitsha and
therefore more costly to develop. It was rejected during appraisal in favor of the third alternative,
which was to fully develop the existing intake on the Nkisi River. This seemed preferable given: a)
the uncertainty over demand estimates; b) that use of the Nkisi intake resulted in investment costs that
were 30 percent lower; and c) that it provided greater flexibility to select future investment sites,
giving ASWC sufficient time to decide whether the next service expansion should be based on
groundwater or treated surface water. This decision was to prove controversial during implementation
and is further discussed in para 15 below.
11.    On the whole, the project was well prepared. As part of preparation, a state-wide planning
program was carried out by ASWC with the assistance of consultants. Its main purpose was to
establish the likely costs of improving water and sanitation to various levels of service in several
centers. Estimated costs for the water supply component were based on detailed designs that were
prepared after thorough investigation of the distribution and works sites and on quotations obtained
for similar works tendered over the year preceding appraisal. However, cost estimates for the solid
waste management and drainage components were only based on preliminary proposals.



5
12.   There was broad consensus on the project when it was appraised. There was agreement on
the volumes of water to be provided, the kinds of clients to be served and on objectives for the
sanitary and drainage components. The roles that the ASG; the ASWC (which had been established as
an autonomous corporation in 1976) and the Onitsha Local Government (OLG), as well as the
consultants would play in implementing the project were understood and agreed upon. The following
risks were identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR):
i) that project implementation would be complex. Several different State ministries and a
larger number of units.within these ministries would be involved. A Project Steering
Committee chaired by a Permanent Secretary was established to deal with this difficulty;
ii) that there was a shortage of suitably qualified and experienced staff in the institutions that
would be involved in project execution. In the short term this was to be addressed by
extensive technical assistance and in the longer term by training;
iii) that the amount of time normally allowed by the Bank for project supervision was
insufficient for a project of this complexity. Additional resources were accordingly requested.
Project Implementation
13.   A delay of almost four years in completing the project was due to a variety of factors which
included late releases of counterpart funds; initial delays in obtaining the necessary exchange control
clearances to import equipment; frequent changes in ASG officials which sometimes resulted in
misunderstandings on procurement issues that had to be resolved, and unforseen developments during
project implementation. The water supply component was the largest in the project and received a
major part of supervision mission attention.
14.   During 1982 and 1983 savings of about $ 12 million of the Loan amount were made on
procurement of capital investments, principally machinery. ASG proposed in early 1984 that Loan
savings be applied to increasing the disbursement percentage of Bank funds for civil works and that,
in addition, a portion of them be set aside to purchase foreign spare parts, lack of which was
adversely affecting ASWC's operations. After reaching understandings with the ASG on its future
contributions to the cost of capital investments and on the magnitude of subventions, the Bank agreed
to increase its share of civil works costs from 42 percent to approximately 60 percent (100 percent of
the foreign cost and 20 percent of the local cost) and to create a new Loan Category for spare parts
with an allocation of $ 750,000. These amendments were made on March 1, 1985 and helped to
reduce shortages of counterpart funds until project costs increased due to unforseen developments
discussed below.
15.   Water Supply. Choice of the Nkisi River water intake alternative, discussed in para 10
above, resulted in serious raw water supply problems during implementation. Unplanned and
uncontrolled building development in the Nkisi River's catchment area with inadequate drainage
facilities caused unforseen soil erosion, siltation and an increase in the river bed's elevation at the
intake point. By late 1987, it became evident that the intake would have to be relocated 2.8 km
upriver to enable the amounts of water required for the new plant to be abstracted from the Nkisi
River, as available supply had been reduced to less than one quarter of the amount needed. The cost
of this intake, which was comrnissioned in 1989, gravity mains to the treatment plant site and
additional engineering and supervision services added $ 5.8 million equivalent to the project's cost, of



6
which the Bank financed $ 3.3 mnillion from the Loan. By late 1990, it appeared that additional
works would be required to protect the pumping station from the effects of flooding caused by
continued siltation of the Nkisi River. The nature and extent of these works were being considered by
ASWC and its consultants at the Closing Date.
16.   In early 1987, two unexpected developments caused ASWC to completely reassess its strategy
for water supply development. Firstly, population in the project area was growing at a faster rate than
the 5 percent per annum anticipated during appraisal and it became evident that there was a real
danger of prolonged water shoftages unless urgent measures were taken to improve the efficiency of
the supply system and new sources of supply were developed. Secondly, the first of several
devaluations of the naira associated with the Federal Government's economic Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) trebled the naira cost of imported capital goods, chemicals and other inputs used in
the treatment of surface water. This dramatically altering the relative costs of treated surface water on
the one hand and borehole water on the other, to the detriment of surface water.
17.   In the light of these developments, ASWC decided to: i) almost double the length of
distribution works in the project to serve a larger number of clients, ii) initiate leak detection
programs to realize savings in the cost of chemicals and electricity, iii) install a greater amount of
water meters than previously planned, as metered consumers were found to make more efficient use
of water, iii) carry out emergency borehole drilling programs in the Onitsha and Enugu regions to
increase the supply of lower cost borehole water in these areas, iv) adopt a policy of making moderate
yearly tariff adjustments to ensure recovery of at least recurrent costs, and v) carry out a socio-
economic tariff study.
18.    To support adjustment to these new conditions, the Bank agreed to help finance the cost of
leak detection programs, extensions of the transmission and distribution systems, additional water
meters, a borehole drilling program near Onitsha, a treatment plant to extract iron from borehole
water, erosion control works in the Nkisi catchment area and an additional stock of water treatment
chemicals. Implementation of all these components required ASWC's full attention during the 46
month period between the Loan's original Closing Date (September 30, 1987) and the one agreed to
for the fourth extension (July 31, 1991). These new components not only altered the water supply
element of the project considerably but added to its cost, even though some components of the
original project valued at $ 5.8 million were not carried out. These included the urban upgrading
works in the low-income Okpoko area, hydrogeological investigations in Onitsha, construction of
ASWC headquarters buildings and workshops, and communications and training facilities for ASWC.
In spite of these savings, the ASG had outstanding payments to contractors for the water supply
component amounting to N 23.5 million ($ 2.9 million) at the Closing Date.
19.   Sanitation. It was agreed during negotiations that the OLG would be responsible for
improvements in solid waste and night soil collection under the project. However, because OLG took
a long time to start implementing this component, the ASG established a sanitation task force which
quickly succeeded in bringing about significant sanitary improvements in Onitsha. In view of the task
force's success, it was transformed into the Anarnbra State Environmental Sanitation Authority
(ASESA) in July 1985 with a mandate to provide sanitation services in the State's five main urban
centers, including Onitsha. Responsibility for carrying out the sanitation component of the project,
which was redefined with the assistance of a consultant in 1985, was formally transferred to ASESA
on January 31, 1986. Because of delays in initiating this component, equipment for solid waste
disposal did not arrive on site until late 1988; however, by mid-1989 supervision missions were



7
already reporting remarkable improvements in Onitsha's sanitary condition. The monthly volume of
refuse collected increased from 5,264 cubic meters during the first quarter of 1989 to 16,745 cubic
meters during the last quarter of the same year and averaged 13,415 and 13,785 cubic meters per
month in 1990 and 1991 respectively.
20.   Urban Infrastructure. The cost of drainage works to prevent flooding in Onitsha during the
rainy season proved to be substantially higher (by about 40 percent) than estimated during appraisal.
While provision had been made to construct six drains, only four were built, but these were
strategically located and reduced the risk of flooding. One drains the central area of Onitsha and
prevents blockage of the important Onitsha-Enugu expressway. The upgrading works in the Okpoko
low-income area were tendered but not carried out because of unresolved procurement issues between
the ASG and the Bank. The savings were applied to carry out additional works for water supply.
21.   Health Educatio. Responsibility for this project component was given to the State Ministry
of Health (SMH), which did not give the component much priority because it was fully occupied with
other programs. An order was, however, placed with a foreign supplier for hygiene teaching aids and
these were ready for shipment in September 1984. However, the aids were not received until 1990
because of long delays in obtaining import authorizations. Other parts of this component were not
carried out.
Project Results
22.   The project succeeded in substantially improving water supply, drainage and sanitation
services in Onitsha. Because records on the evolution of water supply and sanitation services in
Onitsha were mislaid when ASWC and ASESA were divided up between Anambra's successor States
during the second half of 1991, quantitative information on the improvements brought about by the
project is scarce. The limited data that is available is shown in Table 4.
23.   Cost Recovy. Because ASWC's accounting standards and financial performance were still
poor at the time of appraisal, the SAR recommended that a gradual approach be adopted towards
commercialization of water services, with recovery attempted first in the Onitsha zone, extending it to
other zones as experience was gained. The SAR anticipated that the Onitsha zone, which would have
its own water tariffs and accounts, would recover 40 percent of recurrent expenditures in 1981 and
100 percent from 1983 onwards, obtaining additional contributions from consumers towards the cost
of capital expenditures averaging 23 percent of capital costs over the 1983-86 period. In the event, it
was not found practicable to maintain separate water tariffs and accounts for Onitsha and an
understanding was reached with the Bank that comparable improvement in ASWC's overall financial
performance would be pursued instead.
24.   ASWC took early steps to improve its financial performance. Starting from a low level of
billing and collection efficiency, improvements were realized during 1983 and 1984 with the help of
consultants. These, and a 75 percent tariff increase in 1983, resulted in ASWC's operating cost
recovery ratios 1/ increasing from 28 percent in 1983 to 72 and 76 percent respectively in 1984 and
1985. However, with the commissioning of new water supply works and the need to purchase
1/ Revenues from saes over opeating costs and overhead; but excluding from the ltter depreciaton, interest
charges on the Bank Loan and forign exchange loses.



8
chemicals for water treatment, many of which were imported, ASWC's operating expenses increased
substantially in 1986 and 1987 when the naira was devalued as part of the SAP. ASWC accordingly
proposed tariff increases to ASG, but approval was delayed and limited increases were only granted
with effect on January 1, 1987 and 1988. Operating cost recovery ratios accordingly declined to 55
and 44 percent in 1986 and 1987 respectively and only recovered to 69 percent in 1988. Thereafter,
ASWC was allowed to make yearly tariff adjustments of up to 20 percent without reference to ASG.
This policy, and the strategy of developing lower cost water from boreholes discussed in paras. 16
and 17 above, enabled ASWC to gradually improve its financial performance. By 1989, ASWC's
operating cost recovery ratio had increased to 91 percent. However, provisional accounts for 1990
indicate that the ratio declined to 71 percent that year as costs increased faster than revenue. (Annex
A shows highlights of ASWC's financial performance between 1983 and 1990 and Annexes B and C
show, respectively, ASWC's projected and actual revenue accounts and balance sheets.)
25.   Under arrangements made for the project, ASWC was to be fully responsible for servicing the
Bank Loan and carry the associated foreign exchange risk. The extent to which ASWC should recover
capital costs from water consumers (in addition to recurrent costs) was discussed on several occasions
by supervision missions with ASG authorities and no clear understandings were reached on the
necessary tariff adjustments. The matter was largely overtaken by events as repeated devaluations of
the naira after 1986 substantially increasing ASWC's naira liabilities and made it impossible for
ASWC to service the Bank Loan from water revenues.
26.   ASESA also made progress towards financial self sufficiency. Its income from sanitation and
other fees accounted for 84 percent of recurrent cash expenditures in 1988 with ASG subventions
accounting for the balance. However, a sharp increase in costs the following year (mostly in wages)
required an increased subvention as ASESA's own revenues only covered 74 percent of recurrent
costs.
27.   Economic Rate of Retum. As it is difficult to quantify the benefits of the sanitation and
drainage components, an economic rate of return was calculated for the water supply component only.
The principal assumption made was that consumers are willing to pay N 4 per cubic meter of treated
water. This is consistent with a study on consumer willingness to pay for water carried out by
consultants in 1988 2. At this price, the economic rate of return is 9.6 percent, compared with the
SAR base case estimate of 8.9 percent.3
Project Sustainability
28.   Prior to the project, Anambra consumers had grown to believe that piped drinking water was
provided as a virtually free public service, but Inew that in practice it was available to only a few
citizens and that its supply was uncertain. The project succeeded in demonstrating that consumers of
widely varied income are prepared to contribute towards the cost of piped water provided that its
2/ 'Wllingness to Pay for Water and Water Vending in AniLmbra State', two volumes, Donald T. LAuria, Dale
Witington and Xiuning Mu, December 1988.
' In fact the value of actual collections was much less. If water is valued at the actual price
charged (N 2 per cubic meter) and collected, the rate of return would be in the region of 4.8 to 5
percent.



9
quality is acceptable and its supply regular. Up to and including 1989, ASWC made substantial
progress towards recovering operating costs though the limit imposed by the ASG on yearly tariff
increases did not allow ASWC to keep up with rising costs in 1990 or to begin to recover capital
costs. These setbacks do not negate that substantial progress was made during the project period. The
Governments of the new States that have recently been created out of Anambra could build on the
success achieved by ASWC by allowing their water utilities more flexibility to set tariffs so that
operating costs may be fully recovered and an increasing proportion of capital costs to be recovered
over a period of time. This would enable their water corporations to invest in further improvements in
water services at moderate cost to their state treasuries; ASESA's financial performance also
demonstrates that Anambra's citizens were willing to pay for effective and regular sanitation services
rather than not have any services at all.
Bank Performance
29.   With the possible exception of the decision taken at appraisal to abstract raw water from the
Nkisi River, the Bank's performance was good on the whole. Project supervision missions were
frequent and of high caliber and they helped to identify problems and address them at an early stage.
The Bank demonstrated flexibility in resolving issues and adapting the project to new circumstances,
as when changes were made in 1987 to cope with increased consumer demand and altered relative
water costs. However, these changes added to the project's cost and the Loan proved to be
insufficient to finance the foreign exchange cost of the last components to be implemented, which the
ASG was left to finance.
30.   The decision taken at the time of appraisal to draw raw water from the Nkisi rather than the
Idemili River, as recommended by the consultants, was controversial and the Bank was heavily
criticized when erosion problems and siltation reduced water intake significantly. Yet, on the basis of
the information available at appraisal and given that the Bank has a mandate to adopt a least-cost
solution to project design, the decision does not appear to have been faulty. There was no way to
anticipate at the time of appraisal that the Nkisi River basin would be developed to the extent that it
was over the following years, or that development would take place in an uncoordinated and
uncontrolled manner that would result in heavy siltation and blockage of the raw water intake.
31.   As noted in para 25, arrangements for the Loan provided that ASWC should assume
responsibility for servicing that part of the Loan that financed water supply costs, including the
foreign exchange risk. In retrospect, this proved to be an unrealistic arrangement as ASWC could not
possibly generate the naira resources necessary to meet this obligation after the SAP devaluations took
place. This was recognized by the ASG, which did not require ASWC to service its part of the Loan.
It should be noted that when the Bank financed a third water supply project in Nigeria (Borno State
Water Supply Project - Loan 2528-UNI of February 1986), the agreements did not require that the
water utility assume the foreign exchange risk associated with borrowing Bank funds.
32.   The decisions to make important alterations to the project discussed in paras 17 and 18, were
taken shortly before the Loan's original Closing Date of September 1987 and almost certainly in the
knowledge that the added works could not be completed during the one-year extension period granted.
Because of the Bank's policy of extending closing dates by one year at most, three additional
extensions were required before the Loan could be fully disbursed. This policy seems unrealistic
under the circumstances presented by this project and it is recommended that the Bank should have
greater flexibility to extend closing dates by more than one year when there are good grounds for



10
doing so.
Borrower Performance
33. The Federal and State Governments gave good support to the project throughout its complete
cycle. During appraisal and negotiations, the ASG accepted the principle that water supply services
should be provided in Onitsha on a cost recovery basis. During implementation it extended this
principle to the State as a whole and to sanitation services as well, though the issue of what
proportion of capital costs should be recovered from consumers was not resolved at Closing. Though
with some delay, ASG acceded to ASWC's requests for tariff increases as the recurrent cost of
providing water went up, and subsequently-delegated responsibility for limited tariff adjustments to
ASWC itself. In addition, ASG established ASESA as an autonomous entity with the right to charge
consumers realistic fees for extended and improved sanitation services.
34.   Delays in State Government contributions to the project were experienced from the initial
stages of implementation. By mid-1983, supervision missions were reporting that implementation of
four civil works contracts and two pipe supply contracts was behind schedule because the local
currency portion of mobilization payments had not been made, that no counterpart contributions for
the project's investments had been made for 18 months, that agreed recurrent cost subventions were
in arrears and that payments to ASWC for local government water bills, which the ASG had
undertaken to meet, were also in arrears. Delays in ASG contributions to the project were
experienced throughout construction even though cost sharing arrangements were altered so that the
Bank financed a larger proportion of costs than initially planned. At the Closing Date, the State
Treasury had significant overdue payments to contractors and, while it can be argued that these were
largely for items that were added to the project after appraisal, it must be recalled that several
components were dropped during implementation in order to contain costs. On balance, the State
Government's readiness and/or ability to provide counterpart funding did not match its eagerness to
see the project completed. Means of assuring regular and uninterrupted counterpart fund
contributions should be put in place by state and Federal authorities for future projects.
35.   The autonomy of ASWC and ASESA to run their day-to-day operations was, on the whole,
respected during project implementation. Their respective Boards and managements had considerable
freedom from the start, and gained independence as their reliance on State subventions diminished'.
On the other hand, both ASWC and ASESA's capacity to take capital procurement decisions were
hampered by frequent involvement of state officials in decision making; many officials were not
familiar with Bank procurement guidelines, in part because of the high turnover among their ranks. In
addition, State regulations required that all procurement in excess of N 250,000 should be referred to
State Tenders Board. This provision became increasingly restrictive as the real value of the naira
diminished. On several occasions there were differences between ASG and the Bank on contract
awards. Though in most cases these differences were eventually settled, in others (e.g. an urban
upgrading contract and another for engineering design of a follow-up project) contracts were not
awarded to the detriment to the project.
36.   Auditors' Re2=. There were frequent reminders to ASWC, ASESA and State authorities
4 ASWC's Board wu dissolved in Septenber 1990 but it is understood that the new states will name boards for
their weter uilities.



11
from supervision missions about standard Loan Agreement provisions on auditors' reports and
accounts. Auditors' reports on accounts were never provided within the allowed period of six months
after the end of the fiscal year and were usually sent after considerable delay. This may be because
State agencies were not used to having their accounts examined by external auditors and there was no
established procedures for appointing auditors. However, the ASG has now adopted procedures for
appointing auditors to review the accounts of parastatals.
Consultant Services
37.   Technical assistance for institutional development in ASWC was provided between 1982 and
1988 by the National Water Council of the U.K. and its successor British Water International, as well
as North West Water. Assistance was provided to improve management, including distribution,
metering and project management and electrical installation and maintenance. The program was
successful largely because good working relations were developed between ASWC's Management and
the technical assistance team. The greatest achievement was the installation of a billing and collection
system. Others included improvements in project management, training and equipment in n.
38.   The contract for technical assistance to ASESA was awarded in September 1987 to GKW
Consult of Germany in association with GKW Nigeria Ltd., Otto BV and Coopers and Lybrand
Associates. It provided for assistance to design and assist operate a sanitary landfill for Onitsha;
rationalize and improve the efficiency of refuse collection; improve financial management, including
accounting, budgeting, billing and collection; establish and operate a vehicle and equipment repair
worishop; prepare a study on industrial waste and train counterpart staff to assume responsibility for
all the above operations. The tasks were completed successfully, with supervision missions and other
visitors to Onitsha noting during 1990 that sanitation standards had improved substantially since new
methods had been introduced. The consultants' final report recommended measures to maintain
service standards.
39.   Engineering services for design and supervision of the water supply scheme were of good
quality. Tahal Consulting (Nigeria) Ltd. in association with Tahal Consulting Engineers of Israel
provided services for the Nkisi river scheme while Wardrop Engineering Inc. of Canada was retained
to develop ground water sources. Both firms maintained good working relations with the client.
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECI1VE
40.   The Borrower did not respond to the Bank's invitation of November 7, 1991 to prepare Part
II of the Report.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIQERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2036-UNI
PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 Related Bank Loans and Credits
Priect Loa                     Puros          Yea ApoMved                    Preeat Stats
Loa 1711-UNI            Expand water            1979                     Completed
Kaduna State            supply in Kaduna
Water Supply            and improve
Project                 maement of
sector.
Loan 2528-UNI           Provide surface         1986                     Under
Borno Water             water tratment                                  implementation.
Supply Project          plant for                                       Main iues ar
Maiduguri,                                      lack of
expand                                          counterpart funds
distribution and                                and institutional
improve                                         constraints.
mnagement,
including cost
recovery.
Loan 2985-UNI           Double capacity         1989                     Under
Lagos State Water       for potable water,                              implementation.
Supply Project          extend distribution                             Main issue is
system and                                      institutional
improve                                         construaints to
management,                                     project execution.
including cost
recovery.
Loan                    Provide funding         1991                    Loan signature
National Water          to all states to                                 pending but
Rehabilitation          improve capacity                                 implementation
Project                 utilization,                                     underway.
institutional
improvements
including cost
recovery.
Credit                  Improve and             1992                    Negotiated,
Multi-State Water       expand water                                     awaiting approval
Supply Project I        supply in Kaduna                                 of Executive
and Katsina                                     Directors.
States.



13
Table 2. Project Time Table
IXm                ~~~~~~Planned Dato    Actual Date
Identification                                         late 1978
Preparation                       Mid 1979             May & Sept 1979
Appraisal                         December 1979        December 1979
Loan Negotiations                 July 1980            January 1981
Board Approval                    November 1980        June 1981
Loan Signature                    December 1980        November 13, 1981
Loan Effectiveness                February 13, 1982    March 1982
Loan Closing                      Sept. 30, 1987       July 31, 1991
Project Completion                Sept. 30, 1986       January, 1991



14
Table 3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements (in $ mns.)
Bank Fiscal Year                   Estimated                 Actual            Actual as %
and Quarter                       Amount                    Amount            of Estimated
19S2     -
1                         0                         0.9               1.4
2                         0.4                       1.9               2.9
3                         2.7                       1.9               2.9
4                          6.0                      2.0               3.0
1933
1                         7.7                       2.0              3.0
2                         14.5                      5.2               7.3
3                         22.2                      5.6               8.4
4                         26.2                      6.2               9.3
1934
1                         35.0                      6.7               10.0
2                         41.2                      11.3              16.9
3                         47.2                      12.6              13.3
4                         50.6                      13.2              19.7
1935
1                         52.4                      16.6             24.3
2                         55.0                      19.8              29.6
3                         57.0                      21.2              31.7
4                         58.9                      23.6              35.2
1936
1                         60.9                      24.1             36.1
2                         62.3                      26.0              38.9
3                         64.7                      30.0              44.8
4                         66.4                      30.6              45.7
1937
1                         67.0                      31.0              46.3
2                         67.0                      31.8              47.5
3                         67.0                      34.5              51.5
4                         67.0                      36.4              54.4
1933
1                         67.0                      40.2             60.0
2                         67.0                      44.3              66.1
3                         67.0                      48.2              72.0
4                         67.0                      52.5              78.3
1939
1                         67.0                      55.1              32.3
2                         67.0                      56.2             U3.9
3                         67.0                      58.2              36.9
4                         67.0                      60.2              39.9
1990
1                         67.0                      61.7              92.0
2                         67.0                      64.1              95.8
3                         67.0                      65.1              97.2
4                         67.0                      66.9              99.9
1991
1                         67.0                      67.0              100
2                         67.0                      67.0              100
3                         67.0                      67.0              100



15
Table 4.  Targets Achieved by Project Completion
Indicators                        Appraisal                  Actual
-      Estimate (Onitsha)          (1990)
Water Supply (ASWC)
Total number of connections       40,139                      n.a.
Number of metered connections      19,119                     7,582 '
Total volume of production 6       82,152                     n.a.
Total volume of consumption 5     67,365                      n.a.
domestic                    43,440                      n.a.
institutional               8,680                      n.a.
connected industries        15,245                      n.a.
Metered consumption 5             50,501                     9,865
% metered consumption              75                         n.a.
Financial Performance
Revenues/recurrent costs          > 1.0                       0.81
% of capital cost covered        over 23                      0.00
ASESA
People served by night soil
collection                        270,000                    324,256'
People served by improved
drainage                          65,000                      n.a.
m/ ay 1991.
6/ Average cubic meters per day.
7 Assuming 8 persons per house served.



16
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(in millions of USS)
Aoortisal Estimate                      Actual
Local   Foreign Total           -Leal  Foreign Total
Water Suvulv
Onitsha works           21.0    33.5    54.5             12.7   44.2    56.9
Building & Communic.     2.9     2.1     5.0              -       0.2     0.2
Trmining & T/A           1.3     2.9     4.2              -       1.9     1.9
Design, Sup. & Studies   2.0     5.4     7.4              0.9     5.8     6.7
Urban Infastructure and Health
Onituha Ding & San.      5.7     5.9    11.6              5.7    11.8    17.5
Design, Sup & Studies    0.3     0.8      1.1             0.1     0.9     1.0
Tech. Assistance         0.2     0.7     0.9              0.1     1.9     2.0
Okpoko Infstr.           1.6     1.3     2.9              -      -         -
Health Educa.   _        Q       0       0.9              _       O 1     0 1
Base Cost             35.6    52.9    88.5
Physical Contin.         4.1     4.7     8.8
Price Contin.           1 9      9 4      ;
TOTAL COSTS           3A      67.0    120.6            19 S    6       863.
B. Proieet Financinz
(in millions of USS equivaleot)
Source                  Planned          Actual           oment
Items financed
by Bank Loan            67.0              67.0
Anamba State
Goverrment              48.1              19.3           Devaluation of naim reduced ASG contribution
Anambrm State
Water Corp.              5.5               0.0           ASWC had no current surpluses
TOTAL                 120.6               86.3 'I
Devaluation of the naira during the period of implementation reduced project cost and ASG's contribution when
expressed in dollar terms.



17
Table 6. Proiect Results
A. Economic Imp
Appraisal           Actual
Estirne             FUll Development
Economic Rate of Return                   8.9 %               9.6 %
Assumptions:
Benefits were based on the assumption that consumers are willing to pay N 4 per cu. mt. of delivered
treated water; this is consistent with the findings of the Willingness to Pay..." report listed in Part B
below. The calculation was made over a 30 year period in 1988 naira and yearly maintenance costs
of 2 percent of plant costs were added to actual operating costs in 1988. System losses of 40 percent
were assumed; this is consistent with probable losses for 1988. Rehabilitation investments of N 0.6,
N 2.5 and N 11.8 million were assumed in 1993, 1996 and 2000 respectively.
Comment:
The actual economic rate of return could be higher as system losses are reduced as a result of leak
detection and repair programs.
Purpose at
Appraisal       Status of Stud           I=a
"Willingness to Pay for
Water and Water Vending in     help set tariffs  concluded 12/88      recommendations
Anambra State' (Dec. 1988,                                            partially adopted
two vloumes)
Onitsha Solid Waste            help improve       concluded 4/86      recommendations
Management                      management                                adopted



18
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Anambra State Agreement
Section           Descrintion                   Comment on ComvIiance
2.04              ASG to provide counterpart    Substantial depreciation of the nura after
funds quarterly in advance.  appraisal resulted in much larger needs than
anticipated. Counterpart funds frequently
provided with delay.
2.05              ASG to approve new job        Compliance not feasible during austerity
classification and salary scale    program introduced with SAP.
for ASWC.
2.07              ASG to provide adequate       Subventions sometimes provided late but their
subventions for recurrent    need decreased over time as ASWC's financial
costs.                       performance improved.
2.08              ASG to ensure that both       Condition met, though Board now dissolved.
private and public sector
represented on Board.
2.09              ASG to ensure that local      Condition met though sometimes with some
governments pay water bills  delay.
or ASG to pay for them.
ASWC Proiect Agreement
Section           Descriptioa                   Comment on Comnliance
2.02              ASWC to establish and         Condition met.
maintain project unit
4.02              ASWC to segregate cash flow    Compliance waived since it was found not to
for Onitsha zone.            be practicable.
4.04              Generate 25 percent of capital   Tariff autonomy within limits allowed by ASG
needs in Onitsha.            but capital costs not being recovered.
4.05              ASWC not to take on more      Since foreign exchange risk of Bank Loan
debt unless revenues are at  assumed by ASWC, it was unable to keep
least 1.5 greater than service  within this limit after large devaluations of
needs.                       naira took place. However, ASG is not
requiring ASWC to service loan.
4.06              Revalue assets annually.      This proved not to be practicable.



19
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle              Planned         Final                Commen
- Through Appraisal                                             78.8
- Appraisal through Board Presentation                         104.7
- Other                                                         30.7
- Supervision                                                  196.4
TOTAL                                                  410.6
B. Missions
Stage of                      No. of                        Kind         Performance       Tce
Proiect Cycle    Month/Yr.      Persons      Days in Field    Exper       Rating & Status    Pro6 O
Sup. 1        7/83                 2              2         E,F                2/1        F
Sup. 2         11/84               2               2        E,F                2/1        D,F
Sup. 3        3/85                  2              4        E,F                2/1        D,F
Sup. 4        9/85                  1              6        F                  2/1        D,F
Sup. 5         11/85               2               3        E,F                2/1        D,F,I
Sup. 6        2/86                 2               8        E,F                2/2        D,F,I
Sup. 7        6/86                 2               4        E,F                 3         D,F,I
Sup. 8         10186               2               7        E,F                 3         D,F,I
Sup. 9        2/87                  3              6        E,F,Ec              3         D,F,I
Sup. 10       6/87                 3              20        E,F,Ec              2         D,F,I
Sup. 11       9/87                 2               4        E,F                 2         D,E,I
Sup. 12        11/87               2               1        E,F                 2         D,E,I
Sup. 13       2/88                 2               7        E,F                 2         D,E,F
Sup. 14       6/88                 2               6        E,F                 2         P,F,I
Sup. 15       8/88                  1              4        E                   2         P,F,I
Sup. 16        12/88               3               7        E,E,F               2         E,P,I
Sup. 17       2/89                  1              7        E                   2         E,P,I
Sup. 18       4/89                  1             4         E                   3         E,P
Sup. 19       6/89                 2              10        F,E                 3         E,P,F
Sup. 20        10/89                2              4        F,E                 2         E,F
Sup. 21       7/90                  1              5        E                   2         D
Sup. 22        11/90                3              3        E,E,F               1         D,E
9E=Engineer; F=Financial Analyst; Ec=Economist.
10 D=Disbursements; F=Financial; I=Institutional; E=Engineering; P=Procurement.



20
Annex A
Anambra Water Suply and Sanitation Project
Project Com=letion ReBort
ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 1983 - 1990
i198    1984   198    198 1M    i     1988   12B2   1990l
Draft
Net op. revenue (N mn)       -4.8   -1.9   -1.8   -4.7   -10.4  -5.5   -1.7   -7.2
Operating Cost Coverage (%)   28    72      76     55      44      69     91      75
Accounts Recbl/Sales (X)     na     120    27       19     19      34     38      50
Depreciation (N mn)          2.4    2.3    2.2    7.4    6.3    6.5    8.2    7.1
LT loan int (N mn)           -      -       -       11.3   11.2   17.2   33.1   na
Exchange losses              -      -       -      -       7.0    53.0   128.6  na
Operating revenue losses,
including depreciation,
charges on IBRD Ln &
exch losses (N mn)           7.2    4.2    4.0    23.4   34.9   82.2   171.6  na
Source: ASWC audited accounts for years 1983 to 1989, and draft accounts for 1990.
(Final audited accounts for 1990 and 1991 not yet available.)



21
ANNEX B
ANAMBRA SrATE WATER CORPORATION
_... .... _. _. ......................____
PROJECT CCOPLETION REPCRT
__.. .......... ......................__
REVENUE ACCOUJNT
(Naira Thousand)
YEAR                 1983    1983    1984    198s4       1985    1985    1986   1986    1987    1987    1988    1988    1989    1990
.__-    .__. ..  ..   ._ ..  ---    ....     .....   .... .   .   ....  ....   .... .. ....      .... .    _ .... .._ ........ ..._ 
APR    ACT      APR      ACT       APR      ACT    APR      ACT      APR      ACT     ACT      ACT      ACT      ACT
___....  .....   .... ,__.....      ---      -- ....   ....  __.....    ....   ....  ,___.....  _,,.....__,_,
OPERATING REVENUES
Water SaLes         3833    1669    5766    4642         8714    5399  13057   5463   15152    7009   17520   11830   16259  20401
Other                 348      190     437      234       548      245     629     348      708    1333       809      328    1431      846
.............................._...................................................................... _.............................................................
Total Revenue       4181    1859    6203    4876         9262    5644  13686   5813   15860    8342   18329   12158   17690  21247
COSTS
Direct Oper.Exp. 1674    1614    2469    1806            2921    2096   3478   5364    4115    6569    4843    9779    9581   15125
Est.and Admin.      467    4969       612    4919        673    5285      741    5100      815    5834       896    7233    8395   11348
Fin.Charges          582        52     924       46      1078       39   1266        49    1479    6364    1722        625    1471    2040
____............. _.... _.... ... ... ,,,........ .... ...... ... .... . .... ... ......... ..................__.__........._..__.... . 
Total Oper.Costs 2723    6635    4005    6771            4672    7420   5485   10513    6409   18767    7461   17637   19447  28513
......................................................................
Net Op. Revenue  1458   -4776    2198   -1895            4590   -1776   8201   -4700    9451 -10425   10868   5479   -1757   7266
Av.Net Assets                        42645  140392    46178 149283  53389 193787  59406 238720  64584 266813 313764 395236
Ratios
R of R                       neg      0.05    neg        0.10    neg      0.15   neg       0.16    neg       0.17    neg       neg     neg
Op.Costs Coveragel.54    0.28    1.55    0.72            1.98    0.76   2.50   0.55    2.47    0.44    2.46    0.69    0.91    0.75
SOURCE: ASWC Audited Accounts frorn 1983 to  1989 and draft accounts for 1990



.22
ANNEX C
AJ4AI4ARA STATE WATcR CCRPCRAriCN
.. *..............................
PqCJECT COMPLET1ION AORT
........... .............
iALANtCE SAE-1S
.. .     .... . .
Cl4aira Thousand)
1984       198t      1985       1985      1986       1986      1987      1987       19e8       19t8      1989      1990
-._.,......._... _ ..__ ..... .  -- -  -----. ... ----  . .......  -----    . ......    ..... .............
APR       ACT        APR        ACT       APR       ACr        APR       ACT        APR       ACT        ACT       ACT
.....~~~~~--        -     .....   .  .....     .....     .....   .  . .....   -----   .  -----      .....  .  ..... .................. .. ... .. ... .. ... ..
Assets
As. ....
Gross Fixad Assecs                 50553     35403      661Z7   11'.236    77879    114259    88692    115118    103310    116272    11551a   116553
Acc: .utatd Oepr.cisCion           1664a      12296     23332      14511     31528    21651       '1355    27742    5Z97Z         34231t    .0364    4635;
................ .............................. ..... ....... ..... ....... ... ... ... ........ ........... ... ... ............ ..................... .............. .
Not Fixed AssSCs                   33 ;0      23107     427$5      99725     46351    92608    47337    87376          50;3a      82041      75182    70199
Cons,ruction In Przgr,ss            6340    104966        2a70    4.338       4400   12196a        9120    144461      10z90    186204    243041   35274
rocaL Fixed AssCes                 'C.245    125s073    4a365   143113       5073l   214576       56.;57   23Za37    60623    263245    318230   422933
Long- Tar.n ASSecs
C.rren: Assets                      24-0      12319      4.6       15C61      6316      14823      52S7    16a03        6795      17310      237.13    255;5
-. . .. ...... ..... .. ... .... ..... . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .. . . . .  . . .  . .  . . . . . . . .
TocaL Assecs                      42645    140392       49711   15817-    57067   2293;9    6174A    240o40    67423    2sssas    341943    45Z23
Equicy and LiabiLities
Capital Funr8d 168                           114016      1773a   128i406      18248   136897      1a824    145053      18248    14a198    150939   16775a
CApitaL Crants                         0      14389          0      8.41          a      8155          0      3145          0      2740      10268       -5I
aeposics For Capital Works              0       871          a       871          a       871          a       871          a       871       1030      144
Assoc R.aluation                   10291      17351      16138     17851      23810     17351    32843       17351    43131       17851      17851    17851
Ac:U.jLaced 3urpLus/COQficI    -6994    -22248           .9085    -23967   .10541   -63671    -13257   -8Ss89   -16206  -165971   *329762  -3367n2
. ... ... .. .. .. .. . .. .. ... ... .. .. ... ... ............   ., ........ .... ... ........ .. ... .. ...... .. .. .. . ... ..  .... ... .......................... ......................:
rotaL Ecuicy                       20165    124879      24791    131652    31517   100103         37824    78081    45173          36a9  -149674  *14;725
Long Torm Oebe                     21&30      1219      Z33540     24229      z3220    97853      21500   1z26a9       19780    204603    349066   451294
C-rr*mc Liabitties                   650       2694       1380      2293       2330    31443       2420    4727a        247a      77293    14255I   146;60
rTcaL Equiry and LiabiLicie   42645    140392           49711    15,817       57067   229399    61744   24ZC4c0    67423    28558a    341943   '48525
.. . . ..... . ..... . ... . .... .... ... .... ......... ...... .. ... .... ..... ... ...... .... . ... ... .. .... ... .............
DbcZ/E;uity Ratio                52:4a      9:91       49:51       16 :3     42:58      16:14     36:64   61:39       61:39      97:3       175:100  180:10
Curront Racio                        3.7        4.6        3.5       6.6        2.7       0.5       2.2        0.3        Z.t        0.2       0.2       0.2
Accouncs Rtceivabte/SaLes                      1.20                 0.27                 0.19                 0.19                  0.34      0.38      0.50
SOfJRCE  ASWC Audf cd Accounts from  1983 to 1989 ard draft accauncs for 1990



23
Annex D
Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Proiect
Project Completion Report
ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION
CONNECTIONS. BILLINGS AND COLLECTIONS. 1986 to 1990
1986         1987         i98           1989         1990
Connections       23,054        27,030       30,183        24,443       25,784
of which metered:    107          275         2,613        6,854         6,597
Billings (N million)   12.0      22.6          20.8         23.2          20.8
Collect. (N million)   5.7        7.3          9.1          11.7          16.0
Collect. (percentage)  48        32            44           50             77
WATER PRODUCTION (in millions of cubic meters)
1980         1982         198           1990
Total ASWC   23.1          24.6         32.6        154.7
Onitsha       4.2          5.2           3.5          11.2
Source: ASWC



24
Annex E
Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Completion Report
ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION
STAFFING CONTINGENT BY LEVEL
198     192I    1984    198   12U        1990
Senior Staff         66      121    n.a      257   n.a       288
Intermediary
Supervisory         110     175    n.a       148   n.a       156
Junior Staff       1,539    1,560   n.a    1,267  n.a       1,363
Daily                5       -      n.a      -       -       -
1,720    1,856   n.a    1,672   n.a      1,807
Source: ASWC



