Document of              g11C   (Y(p
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3036-UNI
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
April 28, 1981
Regional Project Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Naira (N)  =  100 kobos (k)
N 1.00          =    US$1.82
US$1.00         =    N 0.55
UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
mm   =    millimeter            (1 mm       =    0.039 inches)
cm   =    centimeter           (1 cm        =    0.39 inches)
m    =    meter                (1 m         =    3.28 feet)
m2    =    square meter         (1 m2       =    10.76 square feet)
m3    =    cubic meter          (1 m3       =    264.2 US gallons = 35.3 cu. ft.)
km   =    kilometer            (1 km        =    0.62 miles)
km2  =    square kilometer    (1 km2        =    247.1 acres = 100 ha)
ha   =    hectare              (1 ha        =    2.47 acres = 10,000 m2)
lcd  =    litres per head
per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSG           Anambra State Government
ASWC           Anambra State Water Corporation
FGN            Federal Government of Nigeria
FMWR           Federal Ministry of Water Resources
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
LG             Local Government
MLG            Ministry of Local Government
MPU            Ministry of Public Utilities
MPW            Ministry of Public Works
OLG            Onitsha Local Government
OMIP           Operations and Management Improvement
Program in ASWC
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
TCE            Tahal Consulting Engineers
WHO            World Health Organization
WHO/CP         WHO-Bank Cooperative Program
FISCAL YEAR
The Fiscal Year of ANSG, ASWC and OLG has hitherto ended on
March 31. Because of the change in the fiscal year through-
out Nigeria from January 1, 1981 there are two fiscal years
for 1980. In this SAR the 12 months ended March 31, 1980
are referred to as FY 80 (12) and the 9 months ending
December 31, 1980 as FY 80 (9).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - ANAMBRA STATE
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR ...................                      1
Background .....................................................    1
National Aspects of Sector Developments ........................    1
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade .............    2
Urbanization and Urban Services  ...............................                   2
Sector Organization in Anambra State ...........................    4
Water Resources in Anambra State ...............................    5
Water Supply and Sanitation in Anambra State
and Levels of Service ......................................                    5
Water Supply ................................................    5
Sanitation ..................................................    5
Sector Priorities and Programs .................................    6
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ..............................................                      6
Location .......................................................    6
Population and Regional Development ............................    7
Residential Patterns ...........................................    8
Water Supply Conditions and Demand .............................    9
Existing Facilities and Levels of Service ...................                   9
Future Water Demand .........................................   10
Sanitation Conditions and Needs ...............................   10
Sewage Disposal .............................................   10
Drainage ....................................................   11
Refuse Collection and Disposal ..............................   11
Existing Public Health Conditions ..............................   12
Service to the Urban Poor ......................................   12
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................................    13
Project Preparation and History ................................   13
Objectives .....................................................   14
Technological alternatives and service standards ...............   15
Anticipated levels of service.and quality of service ....                 ......   15
Project Description ............................................   16
A.  Water Supply ............................................   16
B.  Training and Technical Assistance to ASWC                   .     .       17
1. Training .............................................   17
2. Technical Assistance                         ..                       17
3. Operations and Management Improvement
Program (OMIP) ....................................   18
C.  Solid Waste and Night Soil    .............. ...............   18
D. Urban Infrastructure and Health                        .        .          18
Cost Estimates .............................................                       19
Project Financing and Lending Arrangements                      .        .         21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Implementation ..................................................    22
Procurement .....................................................    23
Prior Contracting  and Retroactive  Financing  ....................                                                                                                           24
Disbursements ..................................                                                                                                                              24
IV.   ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL  ANALYSIS  ...................................                                                                                                                 26
Water  Supply   ...................................................                                                                                                           26
Least Cost Solution ..........................................    26
Average Incremental Cost and Pricing Considerations ..........    27
Consumer Ability to Pay ......................................    27
Standpipe,  Connection,  and Metering Policies  ....                                                                                     ............                 28
Internal Rate of Return ......................................    29
Sanitation ......................................................    31
A. Solid Waste Management ....................................    31
B. Night Soil Collection ..........................                                                                                                                   31
C. Drainage ..................................................    31
Impact on the Urban Poverty Group                                                                                        ..                                                   32
V.    THE  BENEFICIARIES   ..............................................                                                                                                               32
A.  Anambra State Water Corporation .............................    32
Organization ..............................................    32
Operation and Maintenance ............................-.                                                                                                       34
Management Systems ........................................    35
Billing and Collection ....................................    36
Fixed  Assets   .............................................                                                                                                  36
Training ..................................................    37
B.  Onitsha Local Government ....................................    38
Organization ..............................................    38
Financial Management and Systems ..........................    39
Reporting and Monitoring ..................................    40
VI.  FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS   .............................................                                                                                                                41
A.  Anambra State Water Corporation .............................    41
Past and Present Financial Performance ....................    41
Tariffs ...................................................    41
Financial Strategy ........................................    42
Financing Plan ............................................    43
Future Financial Performance ..............................    44
B.  Onitsha Local Government ....................................    46
Financial Performance .....................................    46
Cost Recovery .............................................    47
VII.   CONCLUSIONS  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ...............................                                                                                                                  48
Project Merit and Risks ........................................    48
Agreements  Reached   ............................................                                                                                                          49
Recommendation .................................................    51



ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
A. List of Annexes
2.1       Onitsha Water Consumption Projections
2.2       Onitsha Demand Projections
3.1       Detailed Cost Estimates
3.2       Project Implementation Schedule Chart
3.3       Project Steering Committee:  Terms of Reference and Composition
4.1       Existing Water Tariffs in Anambra State and in selected Western
African countries.
4.2       Internal Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.1       ASWC-Proposed Organization Chart
5.2       Training Component and Cost Estimates
5.3       OLG-Existing Organization Chart
5.4       OLG-Proposed Sanitation Department Chart
5.5       Proposed Monitoring Indicators
6.1       Data Sources and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
6.2       ASWC Onitsha Zone Sources & Applications of Funds Statement
6.3       ASWC Onitsha Zone Income Statement
6.4       ASWC Onitsha Zone Balance Sheets
6.5       OLG Summary Budget Statement
7.1       ASWC Operations and Management Improvement Program
7.2       List of Documents in Project File
B. Lists of Maps
No. 1     River Basin Development Authorities (IBRD 13973R)
No. 2     Onitsha Urban Poverty Areas and Location of Sanitation Component
(IBRD 15071)
No. 3     Onitsha Water Supply Component (IBRD 15072)
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited Nigeria in December, 1979 comprising Messrs. Motte (Sanitary
Engineer), Andersen (Financial Analyst), Courtney (Urban Development
Specialist), Katsu (Economist), and Densham and Mmes Cointreau and
Leone (Consultants).






I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Background
1.01      Nigeria, with a 1980 population of approximately 80 million, is the
most populous nation in Africa. Anambra State, which was created in 1976,
lies around 60 latitude north of the equator and covers an area of 17,300
km2 or 1.9% of the total area of Nigeria (see Map 1). The last census which
serves as a basis of all population estimates and forecasts, dates back to
1963, and the present State population is estimated to be about 5 million or
6% of Nigeria's total population. Anambra State is one of the most densely
populated areas of Nigeria. About 20% of the State population lives in the
main centers of Enugu, Onitsha, Nsukka and Abakaliki and four other centers,
while the remainder lives in high density rural areas. Anambra State was the
center of the Civil War that took place between 1967 and 1970 and much of the
infrastructure and services, though reconstructed, still bear the scars of the
calamity and badly needs rehabilitation and extension.
1.02      The proposed project would be the second Bank involvement in the
Nigerian water supply sector; the Kaduna State Water Supply project (Loan
1711-UNI) was approved in 1979. The Bank-s first complete study of the water
and sanitation sector in Nigeria began in Anambra and Cross River States in
April 1979, and will continue on a state-by-state basis, as part of the
Bank/WHO Cooperative Program (WHO/CP). This work follows from the rapid
assessment reports prepared by sector officials in the framework of the
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (see para 1.06).
National Aspects of Sector Developments
1.03      Under Nigeria's federal system of government, the 19 individual
states have the primary responsibility for the development of the water supply
and waste disposal sector. However, the recently appointed civilian regime
of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has created a Ministry of Water
Resources (FMWR) which is responsible for the national and international
aspects of water resources allocation and for approving large water resource
projects for which Federal Government financing is requested. At this stage,
FMWR has insufficient staff and capabilities to exercise its responsibilities
of overall strategy, planning, guidance for project preparation, and monitor-
ing of projects. FMWR controls the eleven river basin authorities, created in
1976 by Federal decree, for the planning and development of water resources on
a national basis throughout Nigeria. Since Anambra State straddles two
different catchments, two river basin authorities, the Cross River and the
Anambra-Imo, with headquarters in Calabar and Owerri respectively, have
jurisdiction over the eastern and western parts of the State. These authori-
ties are not yet able to fully discharge their responsibilities which consist
of obtaining and recording basic hydrological, meteorological and hydrogeo-
logical data and allocating water resources for development schemes. Since no
large development schemes have been designed in Anambra there has been no
competition for the use of water resources by potential abstractors.



- 2 -
1.04      Nigeria's plans for economic development for the coming five years
are under preparation by the new civilian administration and will be outlined
in the Fourth National Development Plan 1981-85 for which approval is imminent.
Each State will have its own plan for the same period, as part of the National
Development Plan. During the previous Plan period (1975-1980) the objectives
of the Federal Government for the sector aimed at (i) ensuring that all
communities above 20,000 are provided with pipe borne water by 1980 and (ii)
providing 115 litres (25 gallons) per capita per day in all urban centers.
Since sector developments have taken place in an uncoordinated manner and
because of serious financial constraints these objectives have not been
achieved and the level of service has even deteriorated in many States.
1.05      The new civilian Federal Government has stated that it considers
orderly urban development one of its highest priorities together with all the
attendant infrastructural investment such as water supply, drainage and sewage
disposal. Wishing to pursue harmonious development of water supplies in the
various States, the Government has asked the Bank to participate in the financ-
ing of water supply programs in about 5 States, of which one is the State of
Anambra, and to assist the coordinating and policy making Ministry (FMWR) in
strengthening its capabilities in water resources planning and policy formula-
tion for an orderly development of the water sector. Discussions are under
way with FMWR to determine the most appropriate means of Bank assistance.
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade
1.06      In March 1977, the United Nations Water Conference held in Mar de
la Plata, Argentina declared the period 1981-1990 the International Drinking
Water and Sanitation Decade. All developing countries were requested to
prepare by 1980 detailed investment plans including identification of neces-
sary financial and manpower resources to provide all people with access to
safe water and, to the extent possible with sanitation, by 1990.  The invest-
ment plans and financial and human resources needed to achieve these plans
would be reviewed by a special meeting of the Economic and Social Council of
the United Nations (ECOSOC) in November 1980 and a plan prepared to mobilize
these resources. The World Health Organization's thirtieth assembly resolved
to collaborate with member countries during the initial stage and pledged WHO
staff assistance to these countries for a rapid assessment of ongoing programs
and their possible extensions. For Nigeria the rapid assessment exercise
carried out by WHO/CP staff with assistance from Bank staff has yielded
reports from 14 States which were transmitted to FMWR; a preliminary report
for overall Nigeria has been drafted pointing out the constraints and the
need for establishing meaningful programs for the 1981-85 plan period and
establishing strategies to attempt to meet the onerous demand of the decade.
This exercise and a sector survey produced state by state are expected to
increase sector knowledge significantly and Governments' awareness of sector
requirements and development activities.
Urbanization and Urban Services
1.07      Nigeria has the largest urban population in Africa, with an esti-
mated 24 million people living in some 1,000 towns with a population over
20,000. Roughly a third of this urban population, about 8 million persons,
live in the 20 largest cities and towns, including the federal capital at



- 3 -
Lagos with a population estimated to be 3.5 million in 1976. In contrast to
an estimated annual national population growth rate of 2.5%, the urban popu-
lation increased at an annual rate of about 7% between 1970 and 1975, with
existing large centers continuing to grow, and many previously small centers
rapidly doubling and tripling their size since 1975. The creation of a
federal system of 12 states following the civil war and the 1976 addition of 7
new states has stimulated the dispersion of urban population into the new
state capitals as well as to secondary centers within states. The rapid
growth of urban employment opportunities throughout Nigeria, resulting from
1970-76 period of high oil revenues and massive public expenditures, has led
to high urban income levels relative to returns to agriculture and induced
large-scale migration to towns of all sizes.
1.08      The rapid growth of the urban population however, was not accom-
panied by a commensurate increase in the provision of urban services. Many
Nigerian towns have vast slum areas, unconnected to existing infrastructure
networks of piped water, stormwater drainage, sewage disposal, roads or
transportation. While some urban master plans have been prepared, the focus
of these plans like those recently commissioned for Onitsha and Enugu has
often left major gaps in dealing with the near term problems of managing and
improving the immediate urban environment and the related services of infra-
structure.
1.09      A 1973 report 1/ on 20 urban centers assessing the amount of
financial requirements to cover the current needs for urban services deter-
mined that 67% of the total should go towards housing as compared to 12% for
roads, 6-8% for sewerage and lesser amounts for water supply, drainage and
refuse collection. In spite of this ranking of urban service needs major
deficiencies in water supply and sanitation exist in Anambra State, where in
1976, only 22% of the population in urban areas was served by a piped water
supply system. Similar low percentages prevailed across the country apart
from Lagos. Sewerage, drainage, refuse and human waste disposal is also a
relatively neglected subsector in Nigeria. Urban areas generally have highly
inadequate service systems. No one town has a modern or central sewerage
system; yet under the Third Development Plan, this subsector was allocated
only 1.3% of the total public sector capital expenditure program for 1975-80,
whereas the allocation to water supply was 2.8%. Inappropriate methods of
solid waste disposal are prevalent, domestic refuse clutters the streets
because of irregular collection and disposal and flooding often occurs after
storms because of inadequate or clogged storm drainage systems. In Anambra
State approximately 4% of the urban population use septic tanks and pit
latrines, 26% rely on bucket latrines with the remainder having no means for
human waste disposal.
1/   Nigeria--Development Problems and Future Needs of Major Urban Centers--
Twenty Urban Centers, Report No. 23, prepared by Doxiadis Associates
Int. 1973.



1.10      The greatest impact of these shortages of urban services and housing
is felt by the urban poor. The World Bank estimated absolute urban poverty
threshold for 1978 is N283 or US$515 annual income per capita, implying
monthly incomes of N24 or US$43 per capita. This is above the per capita
income of Nll or US$20 for a household of six persons where the minimum
monthly wage of N65 or US$118 is earned by a laborer in the Nigerian public
sector. This minimum public wage, while usually serving as an indicator of
the median of urban income distributions in most West African cities, does not
serve this function in Nigeria; the high cost of living leaves such households
with N65 per month well below the urban poverty threshold. While reliable
urban income distribution data is lacking in Nigeria, partial data for some
regions indicate that there are substantial differences in regional income
levels.
Sector Organization in Anambra State
1.11      The principal authority is the Anambra State Government (ANSG)
centered in Enugu and responsible to the elected Governor and State Assembly.
Anambra's Ministry of Economic Development is concerned with the allocation
of financial resources. Anambra State consists of 23 local government
divisions including the capital city of Enugu. Local governments have prime
responsibility for services of a local nature (town planning; local roads
and drainage; disposal of solid and liquid wastes; town markets; etc...) but
most lack the human and financial resources to plan and finance their develop-
ment effectively.
1.12      In Anambra the main water supply agency is the Anambra State Water
Corporation (ASWC) created in 1976 with the basic function of developing and
providing water for public, domestic and industrial purposes throughout the
State. ASWCGs organization and activities are discussed in paras 5.01 to
5.21. ASWC is answerable to and controlled by the newly created Ministry of
Public Utilities (MPU).
1.13      The new assignment of responsibilities between State Ministries
gives Ministry of Public Works (MPW) responsibility for the planning and
construction of drainage and sewage disposal facilities, while local Govern-
ments retain the responsibility for operating and maintaining these facilities
together with solid wastes disposal. MPW will monitor progress of the master
plans for sewerage, drainage and flood control of Enugu and Onitsha, awarded
to separate joint ventures of consultants in 1979. Preliminary reports for
sewerage and storm drainage have been completed for Onitsha. Since other
Governmental agencies are also affected by proposed developments arising from
these master plans, ANSG has set up an interministerial advisory committee,
to jointly review progress of the studies.
1.14      The Ministry of Health is marginally involved in the sector.  It
monitors the quality of water provided by ASWC to its consumers. It has
discharged its main responsibility of monitoring health and providing related
shelter and curative health services without being financially able to expand
its role to education of the public on the prevention of diseases.
I



- 5-
Water Resources in Anambra State
1.15      Rainfall in Anambra State varies from about 1,600 mm per annum along
the northern boundary of the State to over 2,000 mm per annum in the South-
eastern section. The wet season extends from April through October with
rainfall peaking often in September. Runoff from the western section of the
State flows into the Niger and the delta rivers, while the section east of
Enugu has all streams and rivers flowing in a southeasterly direction towards
the Cross river. The main rivers are perennial which indicates that their
base flow originates from groundwater. While groundwater resources have not
yet been explored in detail they are believed to be available in limited but
sufficient quantities to allow development of groundwater for water supply
schemes. Prospects for high yield boreholes as would be required for irriga-
tion or larger scale water supply are uncertain and will require field
investigation.
Water Supply and Sanitation in Anambra State and Levels of Service
Water Supply
1.16      As part of the WHO/CP, a study of the water and sanitation sector in
Anambra State was carried out in April 1979. This study shows that the seven
largest centers in Anambra State, with a total 1979 population of about one
million, have about 15,500 registered house connections and 400 standposts
which would give access to about one quarter and one third of the total
population respectively 1/. Overall access to service is thus likely to be
about 60% of total population. Access to service in Onitsha (1979 population
276,000) is about the same as the average for the seven largest centers in the
State. Because of the intermittent operation of the services 2/, the amount
of water supplied (allowing for 30% losses) to those with access to service
ranges from a high of 60 lcd in Enugu to 30 lcd in Onitsha, to 6 lcd in the
five other large urban centers. Service in 29 other centers managed by ASWC
is similar to these last five urban centers.
Sanitation
1.17      There are no water borne sewerage services in the State; however,
existing legislation requires that every house be constructed with a septic
tank. In fact, this only occurs in newly built, well developed and high
income urban areas. The remainder of the urban population depends on bucket
latrines, the rural population on pit latrines or nothing. Refuse collec-
tion is the responsibility of local governments and is grossly inadequate as
evidenced in the two major towns of Enugu and Onitsha where the population
dumps its refuse into the streets. The technology used makes it difficult to
serve densely populated areas without paved roads and the population not
receiving service is usually among the lower income groups.
1/   Assuming 15 persons/house connection and 800/standpipe.
2/   6 to 8 hours/day in Enugu and Onitsha; 4 hours in each of remaining
5 larger centers.



-6-
Sector Priorities and Programs
1.18      No overall detailed planning had been carried out nationally or
statewide prior to preparation of the proposed project; nor had financing and
manpower availability been taken into consideration in setting sector objec-
tives. In order to address this shortcoming in Anambra, a water supply sector
planning exercise financed by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF; para 3.02)
was carried out during 1979 by Consultants jointly with the ASWC. For the
urban water supply sector, it showed that depending on the selected levels
of service, annual capital investments would range from N13 million to N17.5
million over the next 5 years, excluding operating costs which would add about
N3.4 million per year. For rural water supply development, annual capital
investment costs were estimated in the range of N18 million to N42 million,
depending on the selected pace of development and levels of service for the
1981-1985 period. Additionally, about N6.6 million would be required for
annual operating costs since no appropriate mechanisms of cost recovery have
been established for the rural schemes. The consultants reports have been
discussed within the Corporation and with the Ministry of Economic Development
which intended to use the results to request funds for the water supply sector
in the forthcoming five-year plan. Priorities are being determined by the new
civilian State Government as part of its fourth five year plan preparations.
ASWC has formed a Planning Committee to update the sector planning exercise
and to maintain the initial momentum.
1.19      A planning exercise similar to the one completed for water supply
is expected to be carried out for the sanitation sector to provide acceptable
investment alternatives to MPW for medium sized and small centers as well as
for rural areas. Clearly the level of investment involved in waterborne
sewerage would be too high, but other alternatives remain acceptable in most
areas. During negotiations discussions were held with ANSG to ensure that the
five year investment plan and yearly budget will be adjusted as necessary to
adequately reflect the proposed levels of investment of the planning reports
prepared by ASWC and MPW.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      Onitsha is the second largest city of the State of Anambra.  It is
located on the eastern bank of the Niger River about 700 km east of Lagos,
Nigeria's federal capital (see Map 1), and at about 110 km west of Enugu,
the state capital city. Enugu and Onitsha have had a continuous significant
growth, with Enugu at a lesser rate because of the transfer of administrative
responsibilities to Owerri following the split of the former East Central
State into Anambra and Imo States. Onitsha continues to expand as a regional



- 7 -
trading center. The two cities account for 77% of the commercial establish-
ments and 81% of the industries in the State. 1/ Historically, Onitsha's
development first took place close to the river ford and gradually extended
radially landward from the river and along the main road to Enugu. Thus the
present urban area constituting Greater Onitsha extends eastwards into the
area under the jurisdiction of the Idemili Local Government. Areas of the
Onitsha and Idemili Local Governments covered by the Project represent approxi-
mately 35 and 25 sq km respectively, and are included in a potential water
supply service area for Greater Onitsha of about 120 sq.km.
Population and Regional Development
2.02      Onitsha is located on the eastern bank of the Niger River, at the
only Niger River road bridge downstream from Jebba/Lokoja, about 1 km south
of the confluence with the Anambra River. This strategic position favoured
Onitsha's rise to one of the most important national trade centers and to
becoming the gateway to the Eastern States of Nigeria. Onitsha's infrastruc-
ture, especially its water supply system, was particularly hard hit during the
1967-70 Civil War. Nevertheless, and in spite of the slow pace of its reha-
bilitation, its attraction as a trading center was rapidly re-established.
The resumption of immigration has further compounded the problems created by
congestion and inadequate, almost non-existent, urban services, particularly
water supply and sanitation.
2.03      There is considerable uncertainty about the current level of
Onitsha's population, particularly in view of the disruptive effects of the
1967-70 period, and the unsettled situation immediately thereafter. Massive
short term migratory movements were a consequence of the war along with a
declining birth rate and an increased death rate. It is apparent, however,
that despite this war-related decrease population subsequently reached a level
higher than that of 1966. The last census carried out in 1963 indicated a
population of 163,000. In the framework of preparation of the urban Master
Plan for Onitsha (para. 1.08), the consultants conducted a population survey.
Their estimate appears somewhat conservative, an opinion shared by local
officials. Tahal Consulting Engineers Nigeria (TCE), the consultants retained
by the ASWC for the preparation of the Onitsha Water Supply Project, conducted
another survey to reflect the unique population structure of Onitsha (see para
2.04). The revised estimates, judged to be realistic, and accepted by State
officials, indicate a population of 276,000 in 1979. Using this estimate,
population growth for Onitsha has been reconstructed as follows:
1952           1963           1979
Total Population (000)         76.9          163.0          276.0
Average Annual Growth Rate            7.1%           3.4%
1/   As per the Directories of Distributive Trades and Services and of
Industrial Establishments published respectively in 1975 and 1977 by
the State Ministry of Finance and Economic Development.



Of the three alternatives envisaged for the population growth over the
1980-2000 period TCE adopted the medium projection which assumes a population
growth of 5% p.a. from now until 1990, tapering off to 3.7% p.a. after 1990.
On this basis Onitsha's present population would double by year 1993. These
figures include the transient population (para. 2.04) which uses the city-s
infrastructure just as much as the residents.
1980     1990      2000
Adopted Population Projection       291,900  475,200   683,400
2.04      The transient population is made up principally of the night guests
and the daytime only population. The former consist of single persons or
small families who, as traders, workers or day laborers, reside in Onitsha
during work days and return to their villages during the weekends. The latter
are persons who commute to Onitsha from rural areas daily. The transient
population is estimated at about 30% of Onitsha's total population. Although
this pattern may enhance the importance of Onitsha-s economic status, it has
been accompanied by some negative aspects. This transient population has
contributed to serious loosening of the traditional community feeling, while
no modern institution has been able to take its place.
2.05      This weak community feeling is readily identifiable in Onitsha,
and can be regarded as one of the reasons for the continuous decay of urban
services e.g. water supply systems. As many people do not regard Onitsha as
their home, or home-town, there is little interest in rehabilitating the
physical environment by people's active contribution. The progressive decay
of the environment then deters newcomers from moving their families to Onitsha
and prevents the rekindling of some kind of community feeling. The rehabilita-
tion of urban services such as water supply and environmental sanitation and
health would help to break this vicious circle. Carefully planned restoration
of the urban infrastructure would contribute to an orderly growth in conjunc-
tion with proper application of land use controls and traffic/transportation
development.
Residential Patterns
2.06      Residential areas in the older parts of Onitsha are mixed in both
quality of housing and wealth of the occupants without any obviously poor
neighborhoods, except Okpoko (Map 2). There is no sewerage and inadequate
night soil collection in the places that do have bucket latrines. Streets in
many areas are inadequately paved and drainage is not satisfactory. Living
conditions throughout Onitsha--except in the new and high cost residential
areas like American Quarters and the Government Residential Area (GRA)--
are generally poor. While of solid construction, houses are not adequately
maintained, a situation which is not helped by the transient nature of a large
part of the population.
2.07      In parts of the city, particularly Otu, Fegge, Okpoko and Odoakpu,
residential densities are relatively high with Fegge at 532 persons per hectare
and Odoakpu at 408 persons per hectare. Many of the poor are interspersed
among the higher income residents. Housing is in compounds with landlords



- 9 -
often occupying one dwelling unit and tenants the others. As a comparison,
densities in the GRA range from 14 to 36 persons per hectare. Okpoko occupies
an area of approximately 120 hectares on which 42,000 people reside in approxi-
mately 1,100 single story compound structures, 5-7 per room. At least half of
the population falls below the urban poverty threshold. The area at present
lacks basic water and sanitation services as well as essential access roads,
drainage and solid waste collection.
Water Supply Conditions and Demand
Existing Facilities and Levels of Service
2.08      Onitsha's first public water supply system was constructed in the
1940s and extended in the early 60s to cope with a fast growing city. Neigh-
boring centers now part of the Greater Onitsha area have been served by
independent and rudimentary facilities since the 1960's. The water supply
works currently produce 11,000 m3 daily and consist of a plant of a daily
capacity of 5,400 m3 treating surface water from a small impoundment site
on the Nkisi river and of 5 boreholes tapping ground water of high iron
content producing the balance. Storage and treatment facilities have deterio-
rated and need rehabilitation to supply safe water. The latest significant
extensions of the distribution system date back to the early 1960's and many
small diameter cast iron pipelines, now corroded, account for much of the
system leakage loss and incidence of burst pipes. Parts of the Onitsha water
supply zone are served by extensions carried out piecemeal and receive little
flows even when the system is under pressure. Because the current supply is
insufficient to cope with existing demand, service is provided intermittently
twice daily for about 4 hours. With OLG financial assistance, ASWC is imple-
menting a crash programme of 4 boreholes plus rehabilitation of existing
facilities to increase the daily water production by about 18,000 m3.  This
programme is expected to provide continuous service to the existing system
until 1983.
2.09      Onitsha has about 6,900 registered connections and some 140 stand-
pipes of which only about 60 are functioning. About 300 connections are
metered, most of them with faulty meters. Since many connections serve multi-
storey houses and compounds, the distribution network is estimated to serve
intermittently 60% of the Onitsha population. In some areas the inhabitants
use private or collective shallow wells, the quality of the water from which
is hardly ever monitored. Almost all the large water consuming industries are
located in the southern part of the district and depend on their own boreholes
which tap good quality water from the Niger alluvium.
2.10      In Onitsha as well as in smaller centers the standard of maintenance
of plant, equipment and structures is generally poor. Many installations have
been operated part-time mostly because of lack of fuel. Distribution systems
are not mapped, no systematic inspection of mains is carried out and pipes are
often left exposed following erosion on unsurfaced roads. Laboratory control
is minimal and too remote from centers of operation to be efficient. Several
pumps and diesel generators are broken down and are inadequately repaired or
maintained to provide standby capacity. Workshops are cramped and without



- 10 -
basic tools. Severe shortages of transport are evident in rural zones and
in the Mechanical and Electrical section in Enugu, preventing quick liaison
with the zones and repairs by Headquarters. ASWC has no adequate communica-
tion system between Headquarters and the various zones. Almost all production,
distribution and customer meters are broken, many connections are unregistered
and unaccounted for water is thought to be high.
Future Water Demand
2.11      Projections of water consumption, sales and production, and of
future capacity are shown in Annex 2.2. These projections indicate that water
sales would increase three fold by 1985 and double again in the next 5 years.
Annex 2.1 summarizes the projected future average and peak daily water demand
in Onitsha. Since Onitsha-s present population and demand patterns are not
well known, projections of future demand for services are necessarily uncertain.
2.12      ASWC-s consultants have estimated future water requirements for
various categories of domestic consumers as follows: (i) consumers served by
private connections initially between 154 lcd for low density areas and 108
lcd for medium and high density areas; (ii) consumers served by courtyard
connections, 55 lcd; and persons served by standpipe, 25 lcd. The proportion
of people served by private connections would slowly increase from 21% in
1980 to 27% in 1985 as the project provides equipment; at that time policies
enabling increased access to individual connection would then be reviewed to
bring this service to 45% in 1990. Correspondingly, people served by yard-tap
connections and standpipes would initially jump from 7% and 12% in 1980 to 29%
and 38% respectively in 1985. The number of people served by standpipes would
thereafter begin to decline and would stabilize by 1990 at around 41% for yard-
tap connections and 14% for standpipes. Although actual consumption averages
76 lcd for those now served, the calculated average demand is 30 lcd (assuming
supply to all population). This demand is expected to increase to 94 lcd by
1990 as improvements in the standard of living take place, and social policies
are implemented.
2.13      Industrial and commercial demand is expected to grow at about the
same rate as the domestic demand. Such organizations are expected to connect
to the public system progressively as their own existing private water facili-
ties become obsolete and as confidence in the public water system builds up.
Unaccounted for water, including losses and illegal connections, is estimated
to decrease from about 30% of total water produced to 22.5% by 1985, when
better monitoring and inspection of mains will have resumed.
Sanitation Conditions and Needs
Sewage Disposal
2.14      Onitsha has no sewerage system and its inhabitants rely on septic
tanks, pail system or pit latrine for disposal of human wastes. About 28%
of the population is served by septic tanks in areas where soil and ground-
water conditions are suitable; however, there is no regular and reliable
desludging service and consequently the overflowing sewage enters surface
drains. Another 15% of the population is served by pit latrines mostly in



- 1. -
Inland Town and Okpoko areas. While the existing designs seem appropriate,
they may cause serious health hazards in compounds which use groundwater from
wells close to the latrines. Most of the remainder (50%) is served by bucket
latrines, and local investigations have proved that the emptying system is
currently very unreliable; less than 20% of the night soil is collected. OLG
has subcontracted this activity to private contractors who have no special
vehicles and who besides overspilling during collection and en route to the
disposal site, often dispose the excreta on uncontrolled sites. A few public
toilets had been installed at market areas prior to the civil war but service
has been discontinued because of lack of water to maintain them.
2.15      Sewerage studies commissioned by MPW are at the preliminary design
stage. The consultants conclude that the long term sewage disposal strategy
for Onitsha consists of a combination of a piped sewerage system for medium
and high density areas and the septic tank system for the low density areas;
and that, since piped sewerage can only be implemented in stages, other
interim disposal facilities have to be generated for the built up areas not
initially sewered. These studies however lack review of financial and insti-
tutional aspects which will be investigated under the proposed project.
Drainage
2.16      Both the Nkisi and the Niger rivers serve as stormwater outfalls
for the existing town and the Niger into which the Nkisi flows upstream of the
city, has the capacity to absorb all the storm water. Most of Onitsha's drains
are open lined drains, but only extend to less than half of the asphalted
roads. All these drains and the natural channels converge in a big depression,
Otumoye Creek, which divides the city. Because of its inadequate outlet to
the Niger, the creek remains flooded for many months each year and provides
shelter to mosquito breeding. Because of illegal dumping of refuse in the
receiving water bodies many districts around the creek suffer from extensive
flooding, which results in traffic congestion and unsanitary situations.
Maintenance of existing lined drains is the responsibility of OLG's Department
of Works which is unable to cope because of lack of equipment and organiza-
tional capacity.
Refuse Collection and Disposal
2.17      OLG-s Department of Health is presently responsible for refuse
collection and disposal (see para 5.25). Some institutions and major indus-
tries dispose of their own refuse. Only one fourth of Onitsha's residential
and commercial waste is collected and less than one half of the market waste
is collected. Within the urban area about 430 m3 of solid waste are added
daily to the backlog of uncollected waste, 70% then disappears through natural
consolidation and biodegradation mechanisms. While each neighborhood receives
service from 1 to 3 trucks, service levels vary from 10% to 80% depending on
the length of trip to the disposal site. Low income areas within the southern
portion of the city receive the lowest level of services while the high income
areas closer to the disposal site are adequately served. The official town
landfill site is not operated in accordance with acceptable sanitary landfill
procedures. Although new Refuse Byelaws have recently been introduced they



- 12 -
have not been fully implemented. The regulations compel all households to
use refuse containers, but there is still considerable dumping of refuse in
unauthorized places and in surface water drainage channels. OLG considers
that the reintroduction of customary courts will help speed up prosecution of
refuse/litter offenders under the new regulations.
2.18      The market areas are the hub of the commercial activity of Onitsha,
but are being strangled by traffic congestion and bad roads especially in
Fegge area. Although the OLG has two vehicles stationed at the markets to
take away refuse they cannot get around very easily and often only manage
to make two trips each day. Access to the market for refuse collection is
therefore generally limited to Sundays when traffic is reduced.
Existing Public Health Conditions
2.19      The health profile in Onitsha is very similar to that for the whole
of Nigeria and reflects high levels of respiratory and intestinal infections
due inter alia to impure water, poor sanitation and congested housing condi-
tions. Malaria accounts for the largest proportion of illness followed by
measles and dysentary. Reporting is likely to understate the problem since
populations at risk are those who may not use health clinics. According to
local Health personnel the majority of diseases in Onitsha involve a complex
set of interlocking circumstances, including reduced resistance to infection
because of malnutrition, poor absorption of nutrients because of diarrhoea,
high level of respiratory and gastro intestinal diseases due to overcrowding,
environmental degradation and poor personal hygiene. While illness could be
reduced with continuous and safe water, education is needed to overcome
malnutrition and poor personal hygiene.
Service to the Urban Poor
2.20      The urban poor in Onitsha are spread throughout the city, generally
interspersed among the higher income residents. Of the 276,000 people in
Onitsha in 1979, about 27% or 74,200 are below the poverty threshold. In the
existing city most of them are concentrated in Fegge and Odoakpu, (47,000)
and Otu, the mixed residential and commercial district which has an estimated
5,000 poor; and in Okpoko, the low income settlement in the south of the city,
22,000 or 50% of the people who can be considered at or below the poverty
threshold. By 1985 this group is expected to grow to 96,000. Map 2 shows the
locations of the low income areas. At the present time most of the poor
population obtain their water from wells, rivers, streams, through water
vendors and from the 40 functioning standpipes when these are properly located
and supply water; the privately-owned wells in Okpoko provide water for 75% of
the local population.   Sanitation in low income areas is predominantly by
bucket latrines and pit latrines; there is practically no collection of the
night soil in the low income areas. The current system of refuse collection
is not adapted to the narrow and unpaved streets and systematically limits
collection in the inner parts of these areas, some of which like Okpoko are
not served at all. Drainage conditions are no better, since many of the
districts housing the poverty group are located in low lying areas subject to
flooding and deprived of even the most simple natural drainage systems.



- 13 -
2.21      The infrastructure and services in Okpoko have not been developed
because the area has always been considered a temporary living area for
rural migrants. In spite of its unauthorized development status, Okpoko
has been provided with a school and had a representative on the City Council.
OLG officials agreed with Bank staff that the Okpoko area should receive
official attention and should therefore be included in the urban master plan.
The area could be easily upgraded and receive infrastructure once a develop-
ment plan has been approved for both occupied and uninhabited zones. A
consultant is now preparing a development plan that will be discussed and
approved by the OLG, thereby formally establishing and integrating the Okpoko
Community into Onitsha. As a condition of disbursement of the Urban Infra-
structure Civil works component OLG would be required to submit the approved
layout plan of Okpoko to the Bank.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Preparation and History
3.01      As part of the long-term association with the Bank requested by
the FGN in the water supply and sanitation sector (see para 1.05), Nigeria
originally sought Bank support for a water supply project in Onitsha and Enugu
in late 1978 when a joint WHO/IBRD mission visited Enugu.  Following FGN's
endorsement of areas of possible assistance in March 1979 two preparation
missions in May and September 1979 defined and reviewed complementary work to
be done under a PPF approved by the Bank in May 1979. Also following the
first preparation mission the Bank suggested that the preparation be enlarged
to consider the sanitation aspects in Onitsha for possible inclusion in the
project. The project was appraised in December 1979. During negotiations of
the project ANSG requested that the Enugu component of the project be deleted
since the State Government was obtaining separate external financing to
complete the entire Enugu scheme.
3.02      The PPF approved in May 1979 amounted to $415,000; it covers the
following aspects of Project preparation:
(i) feasibility studies for development of medium and long term water
supply needs of Onitsha;
(ii) development planning exercises for urban and rural water supply
subsectors;
(iii) assessment of a rehabilitation program for the existing facili-
ties and of operations and maintenance needs for the next two
years; and
(iv) inventory of existing assets and definition of appropriate account-
ing manuals, financial regulations and accounting systems, including
billing and collection systems.
All these activities were carried out by consultants appointed by the ASWC
and completed for the appraisal of the project.



- 14 -
3.03      Simultaneously a consortium of consultants, ENPLAN-GKW (Nigeria and
Germany), completed the first stage of the Master Plan for sewage, storm water
and solid wastes disposals in Onitsha.  Their report suggested a series of
early measures and investments to improve the currently bad sanitation condi-
tion of Onitsha. These were reviewed by the appraisal mission for possible
inclusion in the proposed project.
Objectives
3.04      The foremost project objective is to assist State authorities (ASWC,
MPU, OLG) in improving water supplies and the Anambra urban infrastructure,
thereby contributing to enhanced living conditions. This will be achieved
first in the city of Onitsha through an improvement of the basic community
services. Onitsha has priority because of its importance in the development
of the State; the Bank could assist more quickly here, than elsewhere, because
of the availability of various studies. Although the Bank's involvement is
primarily through water supply, it was found necessary to address various
other sub-sectoral sanitation issues because of their close association with
successful implementation of the proposed water supply project and which, if
not dealt with, would have worsened and would have had an adverse impact on
the environment in Onitsha. This water supply and urban infrastructure
objective can be further detailed as follows:
(a) for water supply
(i) to improve and expand the Onitsha water supply system so that
adequate supplies of safe water are provided in the Greater
Onitsha metropolitan area;
(ii) to improve and strengthen the technical and financial capabili-
ties of ASWC; and
(iii) to prepare through appropriate studies and assistance (a) a
long term water supply development plan for Enugu; (b) an
inventory of groundwater resources around Onitsha for their
potential use in a later development stage of production
facilities.
(b) for urban infrastructure
(i) to redress current deficiencies of the Onitsha sanitation
conditions (drainage, sewage disposal and refuse collection)
and assist the responsible authorities in better planning and
management of their activities; and
(ii) to assist State Health authorities in setting up a pilot Health
Education programme oriented towards the improvement of people's
knowledge and practices when dealing with water.



- 15 -
Technological alternatives and service standards
3.05      While groundwater development from aquifers bordering the Niger
River appeared to be an alternative sufficiently attractive to meet the
Onitsha water needs over the next ten years the basic information was too
limited to propose the use of the alluvium aquifer at this stage. Similarly,
proposals consisting of using reliable surface water at a farther distance
from Onitsha were abandoned for an alternative consisting of fully developing
the existing Nkisi site currently tapped. The selected alternative will
provide a long term water supply facility and simultaneously provide enough
time for the full investigation of the groundwater alluvium before 1985 when
the decision for construction of additional production facilities should be
made; by adopting this alternative it will be possible to concentrate ASWC's
limited human and financial resources on one location.
3.06      ASWC's service policy has always favored providing individual con-
nections to all domestic consumers and limiting the service through standpipes
because of their costly maintenance requirements. Yet it was recognized
during the planning exercises (para 1.18) that (i) the service standard had
to be related to basic needs and to the standards of existing in-house water
and waste disposal facilities; and that (ii) because of financial and manpower
contraints increasing reliance on standpipe service and on courtyard connec-
tion for low and possibly middle income areas had to be accepted for at least
the next ten years.
3.07      Existing systems of refuse and night soil are inadequate to meet the
needs of the lowest income areas of Onitsha. While existing curbside vehicles
would be allocated to refuse collection in suitable neighborhoods, purchase of
new equipment under the project will rely on vehicles such as containers and
tractors to be used along narrow unpaved and congested commercial streets.
Night-soil collection will be maintained and improved with the addition of
slurry tankers to the fleet of tractors also purchased for refuse collection.
OLG and MPW recognize that the bucket system is not the appropriate long term
alternative to disposal of night soil; yet with the proposed improvements in
equipment and organization of services the existing system constitutes the
optimal medium term alternative over the next five year period pending con-
struction of a centrally sewered system.
Anticipated levels of service and quality of service
3.08      About 333,000 people or 89% of the population are expected to be
adequately served by the Onitsha water supply system upon completion of the
project. This increase from the present service level of 60% is expected to
arise both from the installation of 260 additional standpipes in the southern
and poorer areas of the city and from a gradual buildup of the private con-
nection programme. The strengthening of night soil collection in Onitsha
by increase of vehicles and appropriate equipment would result in an increase
of service from 100,000, many of which are now inadequately served, to about
270,000 by 1983. Construction of drainage canals would mostly improve living
conditions of about 65,000 people of the southern areas while the rehabilita-
tion of street drains around the market area would benefit all market users
and ease traffic conditions.



- 16 -
Project Description
3.09      The principal elements of the various components of the Project are
illustrated on Maps 2 and 3. The major components are as follows:
A)   Water Supply
(i) Upgrading and extending the existing Onitsha headworks on the Nkisi
River by modification of the raw water intake and weir structure to
divert the maximum safe yield of the river estimated at 48,000 m3
daily; and construction and equipment of a low lift pumping station
capable of delivering 2,160 m per hr.;
(ii) Extension/Upgrading of the Onitsha water treatment facilities at
Nkisi with a nominal average day capacity of 40,000 m3, to include
flocculation, sedimentation and filtration units with subsequent
disinfection. Diesel alternators will be provided at headworks to
supply 100 percent standby capacity for all facilities;
(iii) Construction of a high lift pumping station at the Nkisi site,
composed of two sets of pumps delivering water to three reservoirs,
and supply and installation of rising mains of about 4 km in length;
(iv) Construction of four ground level reservoirs at different elevations,
determining three zones of service and of one elevated water tower,
as well as rehabilitation of the existing reservoir in the GRA area.
Thus the total storage capacity of the Onitsha system would increase
from the current 4,500 m3 to about 45,000 mi3;
(v) Extension of Onitsha's existing transmission network by about 87 km
of mains ranging in diameter from 150 mm to 750 mm to be installed
in existing areas as well as in new areas scheduled for development
between 1980 and 1985;
(vi) Reinforcement and expansion of the Onitsha distribution system.
Preliminary estimates indicate that some 160 km of pipelines may be
required over the project period, of which about 20 km for replace-
ment of old and encrusted pipes in parts of the city. In addition
to the distribution system expansion, about 260 new standpipes will
also be installed in high density areas to supply population who
cannot afford to have connections to the distribution network;
(vii) Supply of about 6,000 water meters and material for connections for
private subscribers, corresponding to equipment required for the
1981-84 connection programme in Onitsha;
(viii) Construction and equipment of the following operating facilities
i.e. (a) new headquarters in Enugu to bring together staff currently
in dispersed and cramped offices; (b) zonal offices in Onitsha to
accommodate staff presently scattered in small and non functional
places; (c) expanded mechanical and metering workshops in Enugu, and



- 17 -
base workshops and stores in Onitsha; (d) 30 junior staff quarters
and 6 managerial quarters in Onitsha and Enugu to allow operational
staff to live closer to out of town and isolated water supply
facilities; and
(ix)  Supply and erection of a communications system between Headquarters
and the Corporation's eight zones and communications with emergency
crews in the field.
B.   Training and Technical Assistance to ASWC and Operations and
Management Improvement Program for ASWC
1.   Training
(i) Services of an internationally recruited training expert (24
man-months) to help ASWCGs newly appointed Chief Training
Officer to produce an overall training program, design and
implement training modules; and
(ii) Provisions for (a) an overseas training and skill development
program (6 man-months) for the designated Chief Training
Officer and the two superintendent instructors; (b) introducing
and adapting the Kaduna Works Superintendent program into the
Enugu Training program; (c) extending and upgrading the existing
training school, and (d) training abroad through fellowships
and attachments to overseas water sector utilities. Full
details are in Annex 5.2.
2.   Technical Assistance
(i) 222 man-months of internationally recruited expert services to
assist ASWC in the area of a) project management for the first
two years of project implementation (24 man months); b) finance
and commercial activities (2 experts; 54 man months); mechanical
and electrical maintenance (2 experts; 72 man months); distri-
bution maintenance, water treatment and metering (3 experts; 72
man months) so that ASWC can restore appropriate operations and
maintenance procedures and rehabilitate existing facilities.
The operational experts should preferably be recruited from the
same water supply entity to ensure that a systematic and
uniform approach is adopted in setting up the operational
procedures. The recruitment of the commercial expert, the
Chief Training Officer and of the two mechanical and electrical
superintendents should take place before September 1981 to
speed up the initiation of commercial systems and implementa-
tion of the training proposals and of the 2 year rehabilitation
programme;
(ii) Design and construction supervision of the water supply facili-
ties for Onitsha and of the operating facilities; and



- 18 -
(iii) Feasibility studies of (a) the long term needs of the Enugu
water supply and (b) the use of the Onitsha groundwater alluvium
as a supply source for a second phase of the reinforcement of
the production works.
3.   Operations and Management Improvement Program (OMIP)
In order to achieve successful implementation of the water
supply component as a whole, it is necessary for ASWC to take comple-
mentary action to improve its operations and management. During negotia-
tions ASWC assured the Bank that it would pursue other measures as listed
in Annex 7.1 and as to be agreed from time to time between the ASWC and
the Bank.
C.   Solid Waste and Night Soil
(i) Refuse and Night Soil Collection and Disposal:
(a) Supply of refuse equipment and vehicles such as tractors,
containers, tow trucks and tippers to Onitsha Local Govern-
ment to upgrade collection and disposal of the city refuse,
particularly in areas now without collection;
(b) Design and implementation of parking, maintenance, and disposal
facilities to efficiently utilize crews, vehicles and landfill
sites;
(c) Supply of slurry tankers and tractors to provide appropriate
handling of night soil in areas having mostly bucket latrine
systems; and
(d) services for design of the solid wastes civil works and land
disposal component.
(ii)  84 man months of technical assistance services in (a) urban sanita-
tion disposal/treatment and vehicle maintenance to assist OLG in
setting up its sanitation department with appropriate operating
standards; (b) town planning and traffic issues; and (c) municipal
finance. Further amplification on these services is given in para
5.26.
D.   Urban Infrastructure and Health Education
(i)  Drainage and sanitation:  (a) construction of public toilet blocks
at 4 market sites; (b) improvement of drain bottlenecks, in the
downtown area and construction of about 3.5 km of road side drains
in various parts of the city; (c) construction of approximately 4 km
of main and secondary drains and of 1.4 km of large open canals in
Onitsha's most populated districts, to help relieve systematic
flooding of low lying areas and improve city traffic patterns; (d)
services for construction supervision of the above works;



- 19 -
(ii)  Infrastructure in the Okpoko district.  In order to bring in basic
services (water supply, solid wastes and night soil removal) des-
cribed above, Okpoko infrastructure would require some improvements.
This project component would consist of (a) providing improved
vehicular and pedestrian access to existing dwellings by rectifying
major current road tracks in built up areas, (b) establishing an
appropriate layout in areas presently undeveloped and (c) con-
structing lined and unlined drainage channels along major roads;
(iii)  Studies for complementing the first stage of Onitsha Urban Master
Plan under completion by defining strategies to address high priority
basic needs, costing the particular courses of urban growth and
development, and evaluating economic implications of these courses;
and
(iv)   Establishment of a pilot program under the State Ministry of Health,
consisting of (a) setting up a pilot zone office at the Onitsha
district level staffed with sufficient health superintendents to
expand the Ministry of Health's current activities to educate and
create greater awareness of the Onitsha population through target
groups (children attending school and women visiting health centers)
on prevention of water related diseases; (b) reinforcing existing
output of health superintendents by providing additional accommoda-
tion and classrooms to the State Health Superintendent school; (c)
equipping all Onitsha primary schools with appropriate water supply
and sanitation facilities to permit appropriate teaching of hygiene
practice to school children; (d) technical assistance (6 man-months)
to assist the Pilot Unit in dispensing appropriate messages to the
target groups.
Cost Estimates
3.10      The total estimated cost of the project is N66.3 million including
taxes and duties ($120.6 million) with a foreign exchange component of N36.8
million ($67.0 million) representing 55% of total costs. The summary cost
estimate, which is shown below, is further detailed in Annexes 3.1 and 5.2.
3.11      Project costs are based on preliminary designs and on quotations
obtained for similar works tendered for in Nigeria over the past year; all
costs have been adjusted to reflect end of 1980 unit prices. Detailed design
is under way for the water supply component and updated cost estimates have
been made available in February 1981 following detailed site investigations
for distribution and civil works. The cost estimates for technical assistance
experts are based on an average unit cost of $8,500 per month and $2,000 for
accommodation and utilities; estimates for consulting services are based on
available quotations for some of the proposed services and on proposals for
similar studies in Nigeria.



- 20 -
3.12       The foreign exchange component of project costs was estimated
assuming that all equipment supply contracts would be won by foreign firms.
Foreign, but locally established, contractors are expected to win most large
civil works contracts. The foreign exchange component of technical assistance
and consulting services are based on the nature of services to be performed
and on the length of time the services would be required. Import taxes and
duties on all directly imported goods currently average 10% and are included
in the local cost component.
Summary Project Costs
Foreign Local  Total  Foreign Local  Total   Percent
Costs Costs  Costs   Costs  Costs  Costs   of Total
-in millioni Nairas--   -in million Dollars--
A. Water Supplyv
Equipnent ard rlant for Onitsha     10.23  3.12  13.35   lP.60   5.67   24.27   20.1.
Civil Works for Onitsha              8.24  8.48  16.72   14.97  15.42   30.39   25.2
Buildings and Communications         1.14  1.60   2.74   2.07  2.90   4.97    4.1
Trziining and Technical Assistance   1.64  0.71    2.35    2.94  1.28   4.22 1  3.5
Design, Supervision and studies    . 2.94  1.12   4.06   5.35  2.05    7.40 i  6.1
SubLotal A Base costs            24.19  15.03  39.22  43.93  27.32  7Y-7,   59.0
Physic.nl and price contingencies   6.15  8.54  14.69   11.24  15.53   26.77 I 22.2
Subtotal A                       30.34  23.57   53.91   55.17  42.85  98.02       81.2
B. Urban Infrastructure and Health
Drainage and Sanitation              2.13  2.20         4.33   3.88  4.01    7.89    6.5
Refuse and night soil                1.14  0.92   2.06 I 2.08  1.67    3.75    3.1
Design, Supervision and studies      0.45  0.15   .0.60    0.83  0.27    1.10       .9
Technical Assistance                 0.37  0.12   0.49   0.66  0.22   0.88         .7
Infrastructure for the Okpoko area    0.71  0.73    1.44   1.29  1.65    2.94    2.4
Health Education                     0.16  0.32    0.48   0.?9.  0.58  _0.87        .7
Subtotal B Base costs             4.96  4.44    9.40   9.03  8.40  17.43   14.3
Physical and price contingencies     1.54   1.44    2.98    2.79  2.56   5.35    < .5
Sujbtotal B                       6.50  5.88   12.38  11.82  10.96  22.78         18.8
Grand Total                                                 .
Base costs                          29.15 19.47   48.62  52.96  35.53   88.49   73.4
Physical and price contingencies     7.67  9.98  17.65  14.04  18.09   32.13   26.6
Base Costs + Physical + Price Coatin.36.82  29.45  66.27   67.00  53.62  120.62  100
of which taxes and duties            -    2.60   2.60    -    4.28   4.28    3.5
Percent of total                    55.5  44.5  100.    55.5  4h.5  100.
3.13       Allowance has been made on each component requiring physical
works for physical contingencies ranging from 7 to 15% depending on the
probability of unforeseen additional work. In addition allowance has been
made for price contingencies at the rate of 15% p.a. for local cost components
and rates of 10.5%, 10%, 9% and 8% for 1981, 1982, 1983 and 1984-86 res-
pectively for foreign exchange components. Because the project is expected
to extend through 1986, and, because of assumed high rates for increases in
local prices, the total allowance for price increases effectively increases
the estimated costs (expressed in December 1980 price levels) by 36%.



- 21 -
3.14      All project costs, expressed in dollars, are calculated on the
assumption of a fixed rate of exchange of NO.55 to the US dollar, throughout
the project period.
Project Financing and Lending Arrangements
3.15      The proposed financing of the project would be as follows:
All costs expressed in US$ million units.
(Figures between brackets are in Nigerian currency - N million)
Anambra           ASWC
State          Internal
Total Costs       IBRD         Govt.       Cash Generation
1. Water Supply
Investments
Technical Assistance      98.0 (53.9)   55.2 (30.3)  37.3 (20.6)   5.5   (3.0)
2. Drainage, Sanitation
and Health Education      17.2  (9.5)    8.8  (4.9)   8.4  (4.6)    -          -
3. Solid Wastes and Night
Soil Collection            5.4  (2.9)    3.0  (1.6)   2.4  (1.3)    -          -
Total                    120.6 (66.3)   67.0 (36.8)  48.1 (26.5)   5.5   (3.0)
The proposed Bank Loan of US$67.0 million (N36.8 million) would cover the
foreign exchange cost of the project which is about 55% of total project
costs. Counterpart costs would be met through contributions of US$48.lm
(N26.5 million) by Anambra State Government and US$5.5m (N3.0 million) by
ASWC.
3.16      The Federal Government of Nigeria would be the Borrower for the
full amount of the Loan. All proceeds from the Loan would be on-lent to the
Anambra State Government on Bank terms. Amounts of $55.2 million and US$3.0
million of the sub-loan corresponding to the foreign exchange components of
the Water Supply and Solid Wastes and Night Soil components would be further
on-lent to the ASWC and the OLG respectively, on Bank terms. Accordingly,
the Bank would enter into a loan agreement with the FGN and project agree-
ments with ANSG, ASWC and OLG.
3.17      ANSG and ASWC would provide all additional financing for the water
supply and urban infrastructure components. During negotiations assurances
have been obtained from ANSG and ASWC that they will provide counterpart funds
of US$48.1 and US$5.5 million respectively, that ANSG will meet any possible
cost overruns and that ANSG's yearly contributions to the implementing agencies
will be timely allocated and no later than 3 months after the beginning of the
fiscal year. A condition of effectiveness of the project would be the signing
of subsidiary loan agreements between FGN and ANSG, ANSG and ASWC, and ANSG
and OLG.



- 22 -
Implementation
3.18      Implementation would be under the general responsibility of the
following entities:
A.   Water Supply Works                         -   ASWC
B.   Water Supply Technical Assistance, etc.  -   ASWC
D.   Onitsha Drainage and Sanitation/Okpoko   -   MPW and OLG
C.   Onitsha Refuse and Night Soil              -   OLG
D.   Health Education                           -   MPH
3.19      ASWC has requested TCE to prepare detailed design for the Onitsha
scheme.  Terms of reference were reviewed and judged acceptable by Bank staff
prior to the signature of the contract; detailed cost estimates of the Onitsha
scheme have been made available in January 1981 and tender documents will be
ready for bidding by June 1981. MPW has a contract with GKW-ENPLAN for the
detailed design and bidding documents of the first phase drainage investments.
Since there are not enough qualified personnel to effectively supervise the
implementation of these components, MPW and ASWC representatives indicated
during appraisal, and confirmed during negotiations, that qualified consultants
would be recruited to supervise the water supply and sanitation components in
association with the responsible entities. The physical implementation of the
project would start in early 1982 and extend to mid 1986, the main works being
completed by mid 1985.
3.20      ASWC requires further consulting assistance to prepare designs,
tender documents and supervise construction of the operating facilities
included in the project (headquarters building, zonal offices and depots,
training facilities and accommodation quarters). ASWC is in the process of
selecting a short list of qualified Nigerian consulting firms and has agreed
to submit the list and their terms of reference for review and agreement by
the Bank before signing of the contract.
3.21      ASWC will also require technical assistance to proceed with
establishing the commercial department and initiating operations improvement
and rehabilitation programmes. Terms of reference for the experts who will
most likely be recruited overseas, have been discussed and agreed with the
Bank, and are being dispatched by ASWC to entities that could potentially
second qualified staff.
3.22      OLG will require technical assistance to set up and operate the
reorganized Sanitation Department, and to assist the Town Engineer resolve
some of the planning and traffic problems in Onitsha. OLG has recently
recruited a qualified Nigerian to head the Sanitation Department. Terms of
reference for the experts and job specification for the Sanitation Department
Manager have been prepared by Bank staff and submitted to OLG for discussion
and selection of candidates. The recruitment of two of the internationally
recruited experts should take place before September 30, 1981.



- 23 -
3.23      In order to ensure appropriate coordination and decision among
the various agencies involved in the project implementation (ASWC, MPU, MPH,
OLG) a Project Steering Committee has been set up by the Anambra State Govern-
ment. The Committee is chaired by a MPU high official and composed of the
project officers responsible for the project component in the respective
entities as well as representatives from the Ministries of Finance and Eco-
nomic Development. ANSG officials submitted draft terms of reference for this
Steering Committee, which are satisfactory to the Bank (see Annex 3.4), and
were subsequently published in the State Gazette. ASWC has appointed a
project manager directly responsible to the General Manager and heading a Unit
within ASWC responsible for the Water Supply component. Project management
would also be provided with two man-years of expert assistance during the
initial period of project execution. The staff allocated to the internal ASWC
unit would also be responsible for assuring the logistical and administrative
support of all project components.
Procurement
3.24      All contracts above US$500,000 for plant and equipment, and above
US$1,000,000 for civil works would be awarded through ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts below these limits and above
US$100,000 for plant and equipment and US$200,000 for civil works would be
awarded through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Local and international shopping with at least 3 quotations would take place
for: (i) equipment up to US$100,000 aggregating to less than US$1 million,
and (ii) civil works up to US$200,000 aggregating to less than US$2 million.
Prior review by Bank staff would apply for all supply contracts above
US$200,000 and civil works contracts above US$500,000. ASWC would carry out
works by force account valued at US$0.5 million related to installation of
connections in Onitsha. Their staff is qualified to carry out this work and
their cost accounting presently undergoing improvement would be adequate to
permit proper control of expenditures by the Bank. The aggregate amount of
supply contracts awarded under ICB is estimated to reach US$33 million, out of
which local suppliers are likely to win contracts totalling US$15 million for
small diameter pipes, meters, refuse collection equipment and minor equipment.
The value of major civil works, with contracts above the value of US$1 million
is about US$22 million. These contracts would be awarded through interna-
tional competitive bidding and are likely to be won by foreign, but locally
established, contractors. Contracts for installation of pipes and drains
would be packaged to enable local Nigerian firms to tender for sections of
these. The aggregate amount of contracts let under local competitive bidding
is about US$10 million.
3.25      Nigerian law requires that foreign contractors operating in Nigeria
be incorporated in the country with local ownership of 60%. Many large
foreign contractors are already established on this basis in Nigeria and will
be strong competitors for obtaining project contracts. However the magnitude
of a few contracts to be let is likely to attract additional foreign competi-
tion. During negotiations of the 5th Power Project (Loan 1766-UNI) in 1979
assurances were given that foreign companies executing Bank assisted projects



- 24 -
would not be affected by federal guidelines requiring incorporation within a
year of their arrival in Nigeria. The bidding documents will require that all
companies should employ Nigerian staff in order to promote the transfer of
skills and technology from expatriate staff to Nigerians.
Prior Contracting and Retroactive Financing
3.26      The completion of detailed design and tender documents for water
supply has been essential to the firming up of cost estimates and early start
of the project construction; similarly the implementation of the long awaited
rehabilitation program and commercial system is critical for the early improve-
ment of ASWC's operations. Detailed design is now under way under terms of
reference agreed by the Bank and the recruitment of operational experts under
terms and conditions also agreed with the Bank is expected to take place
in May 1981 subject to prior review of the candidates' qualifications and
experience by Bank staff. It is proposed that the foreign exchange costs
of these services estimated at US$0.9 million, of which US$0.8 million for
detailed design, be financed retroactively with the proceeds from the proposed
Loan. As shown on the implementation schedule (Annex 3.2), it is not expected
that any other contract would be signed before the Loan is approved.
Disbursements
3.27      The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
Amount          Percentage of
Category                           US$ million   Expenditure Financed
Water Supply
I.     Contracts for the supply of         24.6        100% of c.i.f. costs of
plant, equipment and materials                  plant and materials or
80% of expenditures for
items purchased locally
II.    Civil works contracts for           18.9        42% of total expenditures
water supply facilities
III.   Consulting services, training        9.3        75% of total expenditures
and technical assistance                        or 100% of foreign costs
IV.    Unallocated                          2.4
55.2
Urban Infrastructure
V.     Contracts for equipment for          2.6        100% of c.i.f. costs of
solid wastes and night soil                     plant and material or 62%
collection                                      of expenditures if pro-
cured locally



- 25 -
Amount          Percentage of
Category                           US$ million   Expenditure Financed
Urban Infrastructure (cont'd)
VI.    Civil works contracts for             5.5        42% of total expenditures
roads in Okpoko district
and drains for Onitsha
VII.   Technical assistance and              1.8        75% of total costs or 100%
consulting services                             of foreign costs
VIII.  Unallocated                           1.5
11.4
Health Education
IX.    Civil works and equipment
contract                             0.3        60% of total expenditures
X.     Technical assistance                  0.1        100% of total expenditures
0.4
3.28      Disbursements will be fully documented.  Work done by force account
under category II would be against statements of expenditures certified by the
Resident Engineer. All documentation would be retained by ASWC and provided
upon request to Bank supervision missions.
The estimated schedule of disbursements of the loan is shown below. The
closing date would be December 31, 1986.
Bank FY &        Cumulative    Percentage    Bank FY &          Cumulative    Percentage
Quarter       Disbursement    of total         Quarter        Disbursement    of Total
(US$ m)                                           (US$ m)
1982                                          1985
1st Quarter        0              0          1st Quarter         52.4            78
2nd Quarter        0.4            1          2nd Quarter         55.0            82
3rd Quarter        2.7            4          3rd Quarter         57,0            85
4th Quarter        6.0            9          4th Quarter         58.9            88
1983                                          1986
1st Quarter        7.7           11          1st Quarter         60.9            91
2nd Quarter       14.5           22          2nd Quarter         62.8            94
3rd Quarter       22.2           33          3rd Quarter         64.7            96
4th Quarter       26.2           39          4th Quarter         66.4            99
1984                                          1987
1st Quarter       35.0           52          1st Quarter         67.0           100
2nd Quarter       41.2           61
3rd Quarter       47.2           70
4th Quarter       50.6           75



- 26 -
IV. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
4.01      The primary benefits of the proposed Project would be improvements
in sanitary and general environmental conditions leading to improvements in
health. The population of Onitsha will be able to rely on continuous supply
of safe water instead of water served intermittently or taken from contami-
nated sources. Waste and storm water and solid waste would be removed from
high density residential and commercial neighborhoods, and night soil collec-
tion practices upgraded, thus reducing the environmental health hazards
presently permeating every aspect of life in Onitsha. As a necessary adjunct
to the physical facilities to be provided, the public health education program
would seek to maximize the health benefits by ultimately leading to improved
sanitary practices. Improvements in health would lead to increased produc-
tivity and reduced medical cost.
4.02      Particular attention would be paid to the low income area of Okpoko,
which presently does not enjoy any kind of municipal service. The project
would provide the foundation for the orderly future development of this
neighborhood through the introduction of basic water supply, night soil
collection services and construction of surface drainage and access roads
which would make these services possible.
4.03      Additional employment opportunities would be provided.  At the peak
phase of construction activity, the project construction force would comprise
approximately 400 workers. Moreover, ASWC as well as OLG would require about
200 additional permanent employees to operate and maintain the expanded
systems.
Water Supply
Least Cost Solution
4.04      Since groundwater could not be developed at this stage (para 3.05)
two surface water production programs were considered with similar results as
to the average incremental cost of producing water. The proposed project
alternative to expand the existing Nkisi facilities and exploit the potential
of this river to the fullest rather than constructing an entirely new surface
water treatment plant was chosen given, (a) the uncertainty of the demand
estimates; (b) a 30% lower investment to meet the production needs to 1988;
and (c) a higher degree of flexibility of medium term investment decisions.
Together with the other existing production sources, this additional production
capacity of about 35,000 m3 per day would satisfy the projected average
demand up to 1988; this will permit ASWC to gather more information so that a
clearer choice of groundwater versus a new surface water source and treatment
plant could be made prior to 1985.
4.05      The project has been planned to provide minimum acceptable standards
of service at the lowest possible cost. The layout of the distribution network
would be designed primarily to encourage in-filling of existing areas rather
than the development of new peripheral areas along main roads, and to account
for new development areas under construction.



- 27 -
Average Incremental Cost and Pricing Considerations
4.06      Introduction of marginal cost pricing in conjunction with acce-
lerated metering policies would enable the tariff to fulfill its role of
reflecting the economic cost of water and possibly discourage water wastage.
To cope with the expected growth in demand beyond 1988 up to the year 2000 a
second substantial investment would have to be made in a few years- time.
Hence, the marginal cost calculations also reflect these latter investments.
The long-run marginal cost, as approximated by the Average Incremental Cost
(AIC) of water production, treatment, and distribution to final consumers is
estimated to be NO.40/m3. 1/ Likely variations in demand growth will result
in no major difference in the AIC. Details of the calcuiations are provided
in the project file.
4.07      The present tariff for metered consumers averages only NO.28/m3
(see Annex 4.1). Therefore implementation of substantial tariff increases
will be required starting in 1982, and while future tariffs will be set
primarily on financial grounds (see para. 6.06), the proposed increases would
result in an average metered tariff of NO.42/m3 (in 1980 prices), which is
compatible with the AIC. Particularly, the large-volume consumers would be
subject to metering (see para. 4.13) and the general tariff level would be set
at the AIC level. Some reduction would appear to be required with regard to
the monthly minimum charges to increase the proportion of total consumption
subject to effective metering.  Flat rate structures have to continue until
all consumers are metered, but they should be adjusted in order to reverse a
situation where the better-off consumers are charged less than people who
cannot afford house connections.
4.08      During negotiations ASWC agreed to continuously review its tariff
structure and levels.  For this ASWC would be assisted by the Financial
Advisor and the Commercial Expert and would benefit, to the extent applicable,
from conclusions and recommendations of the tariff study initiated under the
Kaduna Water Supply Project (Loan 1711-UNI).
Consumer Ability to Pay
4.09      Available information concerning average per capita or per family
incomes in Onitsha as well as their distribution is limited to a survey
carried out by TCE in April 1979. Local officials and TCE themselves believe
that the findings of the survey appear to considerably underestimate the
actual income levels. On the basis of these data, as well as data from a yet
unreleased household expenditure survey conducted in 1975/76 by the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development of ANSG, the following income distribution
was estimated:
1/   The AIC is calculated as the present value of all incremental cost during
the period 1980-2000 divided by the present value of all incremental
water sales during the same period at the discount rate (opportunity cost
of capital). The opportunity cost of capital is currently estimated at
11% for Nigeria.



- 28 -
Per capita Income   Per family income
N/month              N/month        1/  % of Population  Cumulative %
0 -   9                 0-  79                      4%                4%
10 -  19                80- 159                     15%               19%
20 -  29               160 - 234                    33%              52%
30 -  39               240 - 319                    26%               78%
40 -  49               320 - 399                     8%               86%
50 -  59               400 - 477                     4%               90%
above 60               above 480                    10%              100%
4.10      The typical existing monthly water rate for a family of 8 served by
courtyard connection at a consumption of 55 lcd has been estimated at N3.50;
this would represent less than 2% of a monthly family income of N189 which
has been estimated as the Urban Poverty Threshold for a family of this size.
This level is not excessive, and appears affordable in the light of data from
the above-mentioned Household Expenditure Survey on expenses for soft drinks,
beer, alcohol, tobacco, etc. Future tariff levels adjusted to the AIC of
40 k/m3 (at domestic prices) would then translate into a monthly charge of
N5.28 for the same average family or about 3% of its monthly income, assuming
the family income remains constant in real terms over the project period.
This would still be within the affordable limit generally set at 5% of monthly
family income. Lower income families will have access to water at no direct
charge through standpipes for so long as they cannot afford house connections
because of the prevailing high connection costs (para. 4.11).
Standpipe, Connection, and Metering Policies
4.11      It is generally considered that one month-s income is the maximum
amount affordable for a house connection. At present, the total cost to the
consumer for a 20m connection amounts to about N 250, which represents the
sum of the labor cost and the cost of pipeline supplies. From the income
data, it would appear that only about 40% of the households could afford a
private connection. However considering that the cost for a connection in a
courtyard would most likely be shared by more than two families, more than 80%
of the population would have access to private or semi-private connections.
Once the water production has been increased, the upgrading of service levels
through accelerated house connection campaigns will become an important
1/   a)  Assuming an average family of 8 persons; no consideration is given
to variation of family sizes correlated to income levels, as no data
is available.
b)  The statistical "average" family size would be 5.1 persons, according
to the survey conducted by the consultants who prepared the Onitsha
Master Plan. However, these results take into account the large
number of single member households (estimated between 14 and 20%).
The size of the more typical families have been found to be closer
to 8 persons, an estimate which has been adopted here.



- 29 -
objective of the Project. Connection equipment, purchased in bulk, will be
provided under the project, and this, together with contracting of installa-
tion operations on a large scale would bring about cost savings, of up to 15%
which could then be passed on to the customer. In order to meet the basic
needs of Onitsha's population, standpipes will play an important role during
the project period, until the courtyard and household connecting programs
come on stream. In the past, high maintenance cost to be shouldered by ASWC
and the inability of OLG to pay for standpipe service led to a decay of this
type of water supply to the extent that less than 30% of the total number of
standpipes are functioning (para 2.09). Therefore, one area of the immediate
action under the project will be to rehabilitate the existing standpipes and,
additionally, install new ones in order to reach as many consumers as possible.
During negotiations it was agreed that (i) all Local Governments would be
obliged to pay the bills due to ASWC for water consumed at standpipes, as and
when presented for payment after January 1981; and (ii) the Ministry of Local
Government would underwrite payments for standpipe consumption if there is
default by any of the 23 Local Governments after 60 days of being billed.
4.12      ASWC will not be in a financial situation to support subsidization
of courtyard and private installation cost over the next few years. Taking
this into account, the strategy for the medium term will be (a) to tap the
high and medium income group with expressed demand and ability to pay the full
cost; (b) to provide standpipes for the low income group and courtyard connec-
tions, as a halfway measure for the lower middle-income groups, and (c) to
introduce at a later stage subsidized connections to phase out standpipes
when ASWC's finances permit and its administrative capacity improves. During
negotiations, assurances have been obtained that as part of the OMIP ASWC
would in the meantime charge the full cost of connections, and proceed with
the rehabilitation of existing standpipes and the installation of additional
ones in areas of Onitsha where people are unlikely to afford connections.
4.13      Metering of domestic connections is virtually nonexistent at pre-
sent. Under the Project, a metering campaign would be introduced by 1982 in
conjunction with the proposed tariff increases to focus particularly on the
large-volume consumers. It is expected that by 1985, 35% of the consumers
with house connection will be metered, accounting for 70% of the total con-
sumption in this category. By 1990, this should increase to 40% of all
consumers in this category. Overall, by 1990, about 75% of the total water
consumption in Onitsha would be metered. The increase in the percentage of
domestic connections metered may not appear that high, however, this is
explained by the overlapping period of high growth of house connections.
Internal Rate of Return
4.14      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the Onitsha Water
supply component of this project takes into account: (a) as benefits,
revenues associated with incremental water sales as a result of the project,
and (b) as costs, the capital cost relating to the project and all incremental
recurrent costs. The IERR in border prices is 2% with existing tariff levels
(assuming constant 1980 prices).



- 30 -
4.15      This low IERR does not reflect the full benefits of the project, as
consumers' surplus and external benefits (such as health improvement, increased
productivity) have not been taken into account. Furthermore, the current
demand price for water (which would more properly reflect the real value of
incremental water consumption) is much higher than the present average tariffs
as expressed in the consumers willingness to pay up to N30/m3 to private
vendors.
4.16      Implementation of future tariff levels as mentioned in para. 6.03
would result in an IERR of almost 9% and would be close to the shadow interest
rate (the marginal productivity of capital) of 11%.
Sensitivity analysis on cost variations yield the following picture:
---------------IERR-------------
Existing Tariff    Future Tariff
~~~~( )              
Base case                               2.0                8.9
All capital cost up by 10%              0.8                7.8
down by 10%             3.2               10.1
All recurrent cost up by 10%            1.1                8.4
down by 10%          2.7                 9.3
All foreign exch. cost up by 10%        0.8                8.0
The cost variations affect the rate of return by only +1%.  Other calculations
indicate that the IERR is:
i)   insensitive to changes in demand growth; a saturation period of
10 years instead of the anticipated 5 year period will affect the
IERR by less than 1%; and
ii)   highly sensitive to different schedules of tariff increase; two
other alternative tariff schedules (Annex 4.2) illustrate the
importance of an actual implementation of the proposed tariff
increases also on economic grounds.
Further details of the IERR calculation and the sensitivity analysis are
detailed in Annex 4-2.



- 31 -
Sanitation
A.   Solid Waste Management
Least Cost Solution and Justification
4.17      The proposed alternative of providing tractors and trailers for
extending waste collection and using existing land fill sites for disposal
makes use of the existing equipment and already available technology, and
relies as much as possible on labour-intensive strategies. A high degree of
flexibility is maintained and permits introduction of new technology as road
conditions improve and standards of living increase. Significant, but
unquantifiable, public health benefits are expected to result from implementa-
tion of improved solid waste management under the project.
4.18      Uncollected municipal refuse clogs drains and hinders traffic flow
particularly in those neighborhoods of Onitsha receiving less than 50% collec-
tion service. The clogged drains allow wastewaters to become stagnant and
provide breeding sites for insect vectors of malaria and filariasis. The
accumulated refuse provides breeding sites for flies which spread dysentery
and other diseases. In conjunction with the acquisition of new equipment, the
reorganization of the responsible department and creation of a sanitation
department within OLG (see para. 5.26) will lead to improved efficiency in
coping with these problems.
B.   Night Soil Collection
4.19      As noted in para. 2.14, probably less than 20% of the night soil is
collected, with the worst conditions prevailing in the lower income areas.
The hazards of inadequate collection and haphazard disposal of night soil are
significant.
4.20      The approach adopted in this component has been to provide a minimum
acceptable standard at lowest possible cost by means of introducing a slurry
tanker system organised by the OLG through its proposed Solid Waste Management
Department. This method remains the least cost alternative for all low income
areas lacking any means of sewage disposal, at least for the next 5 years
pending the implementation of a currently planned sewerage network.
C.   Drainage
4.22      Clogged drains present a particular environmental hazard in Onitsha.
In the rainy season, large parts of the low-lying areas are exposed to floods
because surface water is not able to run-off to the Otumoye Creek thereby
causing sanitary conditions to deteriorate even further. The drainage compo-
nent to be financed under the proposed project constitutes the first immediate
measures programmed for the development of an improved and expanded storm
water disposal and flood control system. As such, it focuses on bringing
about relief to critical bottlenecks, carrying out most urgently required
repairwork and reconstruction of existing drains, and implementation of
erosion control measures.



- 32 -
Impact on the Urban Poverty Group
4.22      The present levels of service are described in para 2.20.  It is
estimated that by 1985 all the estimated and projected 96,000 urban poor would
have access to safe water through standpipes, and that by 1990 about 50% of
the increased urban poor population will rely on standpipes, while the other
half would have access to courtyard connections assuming that the second phase
development proceeds as planned in 1986-1988. Assuming a per capita consump-
tion of 25 lpd for standpipes and 55 lcd for courtyard connection the urban
poverty group (27% of total population) will consume 12% of the total domestic
consumption by 1990.
4.23      The availability of safe water through standpipes and courtyard
connections (following extension and reinforcement of existing distribution
network) is only one component of the Project to benefit the urban poor, the
other benefits resulting from city-wide sanitation improvements, namely solid
waste and night soil management, drainage and a health education campaign. In
Okpoko, where about 50% of the population is in the urban poverty group, the
project would provide a package of basic environmental sanitation improvements
including solid waste and night soil management. Following the preparation
of an engineering and planning study, key access roads and drainage would be
constructed as a start for the orderly expansion of Okpoko. About 8% or
US$9.6 million of the project is urban poverty lending or funds exclusively
benefitting the poor.
V. THE BENEFICIARIES
A.   Anambra State Water Corporation
Organization
5.01      ASWC was constituted as a body corporate in April 1976 although
its governing Edict was only enacted, with retroactive effect, in June 1978.
Under this Edict, ASWC is responsible for all functions relating to the
development, provision, conservation and distribution of water in the Anambra
State for public, domestic and industrial purposes. It also has the power to
borrow money and can implement the proposed project in accordance with Bank
requirements. The ASWC is subject to financial control by ANSG which approves
capital and recurrent expenditure budgets, water tariffs and procurement for
all contracts above N250,000.
5.02      ASWC-s Board comprises five part-time members nominated by the State
Government and, until being dissolved after the civilian State Government took
office, had met irregularly, but at least four times per annum, to review
policies proposed by management. Whilst the former Board was conscientious in
its deliberations, it was heavily constrained under the previous military
regime and thereby inhibited from taking the steps necessary to enable the
Corporation to provide adequate services to its consumers; lack of finance
having been a particular limitation in these first four years of the Corpora-
tion's life.



- 33 -
5.03      ASWC is presently being managed by an Interim Board comprising the
Commissioner of ASWC's parent Ministry, the new Ministry of Public Utilities
as chairman of the board, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Public
Utilities, and the General Manager and the Chief Engineer (Construction) of
ASWC. The distinct roles of Government and Board specified in the Edict are
becoming blurred. Whereas ASWC management has in the past generally operated
autonomously on routine matters within policies agreed with the Board, this
prerogative is being undermined and is adversely affecting its ability to plan,
organize and operate in accordance with proper public utilities practices.
During negotiations, ANSG representatives confirmed that they intended to
restore appropriate Board membership, in conformity to the principles of
ASWC-s Edict.
5.04      During the preparation and appraisal of the project extensive dis-
cussions were held between ASWC, their engineering and financial consultants
and Bank staff about the weaknesses of the existing Headquarters and Zonal
organization structure; inadequacy of staffing; staff recruitment difficulties;
deficiencies in the present operational and financial systems; lack of office
and depot facilities and limited training activities.
5.05      The problem areas referred to in para 5.04 are partly due to the
very severe financial constraints in which the ASWC has been operating, as
tight financial control systems have been imposed by Headquarters over the
zones. Several members of the management team have often been involved in too
much detail as part of these controls. The ASWC has recognized the counter
productive nature of some of these controls and simultaneous with the develop-
ment of internally generated funds it intends to adopt a more realistic operat-
ing regime and budgetary control system for the Zones. Although the present
departmental and zonal framework appears substantially as in the proposed
new structure set out in Figure 5.1 there are important changes relating to
reporting responsibilities of the zones to the new post of Deputy General
Manager, to the allocation of functions within HQ Departments and between
Departments, and to the creation of properly staffed Commercial Department,
Training Unit and Performance Evaluation and Audit Unit. These improvements
will enable progression into reasonably independent zones each headed by a
Zone Manager supported by senior engineering, accounting and administration
staff. The zones will work within policy guidelines, budgets, systems and to
standards determined by or agreed with Headquarters. These new organizational
and system developments such as incurring expenditure without recourse to
Headquarters within prescribed budgetary control limits and others referred to
in para 5.12, would be introduced in Onitsha Zone first and then subsequently
to other zones.
5.06      The General Manager of ASWC is a qualified engineer.  The other
members of the management team, the Financial Controller, Secretary and three
Chief Engineers are also qualified in their respective professions. Apart
from these people only a few have the qualifications needed to undertake their
allotted tasks. As of September 1979 the staff employed by ASWC totalled
about 1,300. Of these, 130 are located in the Enugu Headquarters, 65 in the
central Construction Department and a further 100 in the Mechanical and
Electrical Division. The remaining staff of 1,000, being mostly low paid
operatives, are dispersed among the 8 Operating Zones - 170 are located in



- 34 -
Onitsha Zone, the second highest after Enugu with 400 staff and operatives.
Of the Corporation's 63 senior positions, one third (22) are vacant and this
places considerable stress on the management of the Corporation. Additionally,
there are over 300 other established vacancies. With a forecast doubling of
ASWC's manpower requirements during the next decade, recruitment and training
(see paras. 5.16 to 5.21) will be a major task.
5.07      The significant amount of technical assistance and training included
in the proposed project is essential to ensure that ASWC (and OLG) have the
capacity to execute the project, raise their operating standards and train on
the job the Nigerian counterparts who should take over the technical assis-
tance positions upon completion of their respective assignments. In spite
of its numerous recruitment drives, the Corporation is having difficulty in
attracting new staff at middle or senior management positions. Senior staff
positions are already insufficiently manned (para. 5.06), mostly because of
the uncompetitiveness of ASWC (and other State Water Corporations) with the
compensation packages of the private sector. Training under the project will
improve the qualification of water works operators and junior staff, but hardly
solve the present shortage of supervisory and senior staff. State officials
consider that it could be possible to upgrade these latter staff categories
by redefining the positions. During negotiations it was agreed that (i) as
part of the OMIP ASWC would undertake a review of job classifications and
remuneration, comparing these with private sector conditions by December 31,
1981; and that (ii) ANSG would approve a personnel statute based on this
review and prepared in consultation with the Bank, within 6 months of ASWC's
completion of the review and in any case not later than June 30, 1982.
5.08      Additionally, the critical importance of an efficient management
for the institutional developments and execution of the project have been
emphasized in discussions of the OMIP component (see Annex 7.1). During
negotiations, agreement was obtained from ANSG that future appointments to the
position of General Manager would be notified to the Bank. An undertaking was
also obtained from ASWC during negotiations that the Bank would be consulted
prior to the appointment of staff into the new posts of Project Manager,
Commercial Manager and Chief Training Officer.
Operation and Maintenance
5.09      Lack of finance, spare parts, supervisory staff, fuel, training
and operating manuals have been prevalent since the creation of ASWC. They
have prevented satisfactory performance in the operation and maintenance of
the Corporation-s water supply facilities. At the time of the Bank's first
involvement during 1979, the decay of the system was already evident. It is
reported that this overt decline, due essentially to financial constraints,
has been a contributing factor towards a lowering of morale among operatives
through their frustration at being unable to do much about arresting this
decline or improving water supplies to the populace.



- 35 -
5.10      During project preparation, a consultants  report identified need
for rehabilitation work estimated at N4.5 million (US$7.5 million) of which
about NI.2 million was for Onitsha alone. These consultants examined what
was needed to be done to bring ASWC-s water supply facilities back (nto full
operation and what level of budget was necessary to provide adequate manpower,
vehicles, chemicals, electricity, fuel, and spare parts in order to adequately
maintain all facilities once put back into operation. The State Government
has realized the importance of these actions to adequately redress operations
and maintenance of existing assets as a commitment towards maintaining the
proposed Bank financed assets; it has provided the sum of Nl.0 million for
1981 for water supply facility rehabilitation in a special fund managed by
ASWC. Funding of the balance would be reviewed yearly as part of ASWC's com-
mitment to complete the rehabilitation program by end 1983 and to adequately
budget for operations and maintenance expenditure - as expressed in the OMIP
(Annex 7.1). Since the implementation of the rehabilitation program is
dependent on the internationally recruited mechanical and electrical super-
intendents (para. 3.09 B2), their appointment is a condition to the loan and
they should be appointed no later than September 30, 1981.
Management Systems
5.11      Until recently, there has been no regular control information
on the financial position of the Corporation as a whole or of its individual
activities, apart from the annual accounts which in any case have been issued
too late to be of any help. The determination and operation of authorized
expenditure levels and other matters having a financial implication (appoint-
ment of staff, stockholding, etc.) has been adversely affected by a number of
factors:-
(i)  lack of a comprehensive document specifying authorization and
approval levels;
(ii)  administrative bottlenecks in approving and processing disbursement
requests or payments; and
(iii)  general lack of funds which has necessitated senior management
involvement in essentially routine matters.
5.12      The ASWC has begun to remedy the above mentioned weaknesses relating
to its management systems with the help of financial consultants funded
through the PPF. Basic activities covered by PPF involved the preparation
of financial regulations, an accounting manual, stock recording system and a
structured coding system. The report was completed in February 1980 and
remains to be implemented. The system recommendations, when implemented, will
result in a number of reports intended to provide management and the Board
with the necessary information to monitor the performance of the Corporation
on a regular basis. The purpose of these reports is to show the results of
the various activities of the Corporation at monthly/quarterly intervals and
to indicate whether the results are in line with predetermined plans or
budgets. The actual frequency of the reports will depend largely on the
Corporation's success in implementing improvements in the accounting systems



- 36 -
and in recruiting the requisite staff for both Headquarters and the Zones.
The improvement of ASWC financial management and the introduction of satis-
factory accounting systems has been agreed with ASWC during negotiations and
included in the OMIP.
Billing and Collection
5.13      One of the more urgent activities for implementation relates to the
billing and collection of water sales and of other amounts due to the Corpora-
tion. For various sound reasons, ASWC decided to dispense with the former
billing and collection agency operated by the 23 Local Governments for domestic
water supplies. ASWC's new tariff approved by the State Government and in
operation since January 1, 1980, assumes the direct billing of consumers by
ASWC. However, the new tariff for unmeasured supplies has no means of being
implemented because the billing system was only in the design stage at that
time. However, it is the financial consultants view that because of lack of
basic consumer records, appropriate numbers and quality of staff and inadequate
office accommodation plus the need for staff training, it could take ASWC up to
21 months to become properly geared up to the complete billing and collection
system requirements of all its eight zones. The availability of comprehensive
property valuation registers (para 5.31) may help to improve on this timing
and Onitsha Zone would be the first one in which the new system would be
implemented and could possibly be operational by late 1981.
5.14      Implementation of the newly developed billing and collection systems
requires the immediate appointment of a competent Commercial Manager and the
support of an internationally recruited Advisor. ASWC agreed to recruit two
such persons under terms of reference and on conditions acceptable to the Bank.
These appointments are viewed as critical to internal cash generation and to
the ultimate financial viability of the Onitsha Zone, in particular, as well
as to the improved performance of the ASWC as a whole. For these reasons the
appointment of the Commercial Manager is expected to be made in May 1981; and
the recruitment of his advisor, a condition to the loan, should take place
no later than September 30, 1981.
Fixed Assets
5.15      Consultants were retained under the PPF to identify, schedule and
value all assets of the ASWC on a zone by zone basis. This exercise was
completed in November 1979 and the assets at their revalued prices, will be
brought into the accounts for FY80(12). The survey gives the following data
for fixed assets status: -
Assets in Operation
Location                Present Replacement   Notional Written
Cost Value            down value
NOOO                     NOOO
Whole of ASWC                    46,463                   21,565
Onitsha Zone only                 8,155                     3,365



- 37 -
The ASWC has undertaken to write up an assets register and to annually index
the asset values to reflect current prices by using appropriate inflation
indices to be agreed with the Bank.
Training
5.16      With a few exceptions, ASWC staff training is done on-the-job.
However, the ASWC's management is aware of the need for manpower training and
development, and has established several training activities on an ad hoc
basis. One and three month courses are provided for plumber/pipe fitters and
pumper/plant operators, and there have also been occasional short seminars
for accounting/clerical, stores and other staff. In 1978, a small training
school was opened by ASWC and plans are in hand for additional training for
craftsmen and semi-skilled personnel.
5.17      There are several deficiencies in the existing training situation.
On-the-job instruction alone generally does not produce an adequate standard
of competence, for example, many staff are unable to diagnose and repair
simple problems in the equipment they operate. The formal training that is
provided does not result from a systematic identification of ASWC-s needs;
rather, people are simply nominated to attend whatever courses may be offered
by the Training Department. The courses tend to be based on government trade
tests rather than the ASWC-s specific skill requirements, and there is a lack
of teaching equipment and materials. The school is underutilized because
there is no accommodation for out-of-town staff. Staff members who are
responsible for instruction have themselves received no training in instruc-
tional methods.
5.18      A study of the water supply sector in Nigeria carried out in
1979 under the IBRD/WHO Co-operative Program forecasts that the ASWC will
have a training load of 500 staff per year, excluding security and unskilled
workers. This comprises new recruitment of about 260 people per year, plus
refresher training for about 20% of the existing staff per year. A strong
training unit will be required to service these requirements. Other addi-
tional key training needs have been identified such as training in management
and supervisory skills for sub-professional staff; expansion and improvement
of training programs for operational, administrative and support staff; and
development of systems to forecast manpower and training needs for each zone
and department of the Corporation.
5.19      The proposed training program, which is detailed in Annex 5.2, would
be designed and implemented under the direction of a Chief Training Officer
(CTO) at the senior management level. The appointee would be acceptable to
the Bank and should be in post no later than September 1981. The CTO would be
assisted by a training consultant or consultancy firm acceptable to the Bank.
Consultancy services amounting to 24 man-months would begin in January 1982,
after the CTO returns from a three-month overseas course. The CTO and the
consultants would undertake a detailed review of the ASWC's short and long
term manpower and training requirements. They would produce an overall
training plan for all staff. This plan would have regard to internal, state,
national and overseas training and education facilities, in both the public
and private sectors, including the services to be provided by the Federal
Water Resources Centre at Kaduna%



- 38 -
5.20      Additional full and part-time instructors would be appointed to ASWC
training staff and they would receive training in instructional techniques.
The training school would be expanded and upgraded, and additional training
equipment would be acquired. The school would play to a limited extent, the
role of a regional water supply staff training centre, and a strategy for
attracting trainees from other water authorities would be developed, including
establishment of fees payable to ASWC to cover costs related to trainees from
outside the State. The one-year Assistant Works Superintendent courses offered
by the Kaduna State Water Board, which is to be revised under the Kaduna Water
Supply Project (Loan 1711-UNI), could then be introduced at the ASWC Training
School and made available to staff from other water authorities in the eastern
region of Nigeria. The project would also provide for higher level ASWC staff
attachments to well-established overseas water supply authorities or fellow-
ships at other overseas institutions.
5.21      The particular short term training needs of the Onitsha zone
would be met by an intensive course for operational personnel who have
not received off-the-job training. At least two operational personnel would
be selected to attend the Assistant Works Superintendent Program in Kaduna.
B.   Onitsha Local Government
Organization
5.22      OLG is one of twenty-three LGs set up by Anambra State in 1976.  It
is responsible for the Onitsha Urban area and the adjacent Ogbarau District,
which itself includes 15 small settlements. Although the LGs are bodies
corporate, they are treated very much as if they were still Divisions of the
Ministry of Local Government based in Enugu. The main functions of LGs relate
to Education; preventive health; construction, repair and maintenance of roads
(other than Federal and State roads) as well as sanitary inspection, sewerage,
refuse and nightsoil disposal, public conveniences and other normal municipal
activities. LGs can provide and maintain works and services and enter into
contracts, but are permitted to borrow money only within Nigeria. However, in
respect of the solid waste management program to be financed by the Bank, no
amending legislation would be required because the FGN would be the borrower.
5.23      Until recently, OLG had a Council consisting of 28 representatives
elected for each electoral division in the area. At the present time, the
Chairman and three supervisory councillors nominated by the new Government are
overseeing the business of the Council on a caretaker basis pending local
government elections. Normally the Council is required to meet regularly
every month and to operate through a series of committees for Finance, Educa-
tion, Works and Health each chaired by a supervisory councillor.
5.24      The Secretary of OLG, a career civil servant, is the chief executive
and is the principal adviser to the Council of OLG. He is responsible for the
supervision and control of all employees of the Local Government and for
coordinating all activities of the departments of OLG. The principal depart-
ments apart from the Secretary's own are Education, Health, Works and Treasury
(see Annex 5.3). Each of the departmental heads also reports on policy
matters to a specified supervisory councillor.



- 39 -
5.25      An unsatisfactory organization for solid waste management has
resulted in acute problems in refuse and night soil collection and disposal
(Para 2.17). These solid waste management activities have hitherto been the
responsibility of OLG0s Medical Officer of Health, but have featured very low
in the hierarchy of priorities or organizational status. Supervision has been
ostensibly by middle grade Health Department Superintendents, but in practice
predominantly by 6 low grade Refuse Disposal Overseers and their assistants.
There are in excess of 100 operators at the lowest salary grade who undertake
the actual refuse collection and subsequent disposal at large ravine land fill
sites.
5.26      As part of the development of the solid waste management component
in the project, OLG agreed with Bank staff s recommendations that a new
Sanitation Department should be set up under a full time Manager having Chief
Officer status. Such a person is expected to be appointed in May 1981. The
proposed departmental structure is shown in Annex 5.4. The new Department
would be initially strengthened with the services of at least two or three
internationally recruited experts in the fields of landfill treatment, solid
wastes collection and mechanical workshop organization and supervision (para
3.22). Besides the technical assistance to the Sanitation Department, a
further 12 man-months of technical assistance would be provided to the Town
Engineer to help resolve some of the traffic congestion problems in Onitsha
(see para. 3.09 C ii).
5.27      OLG employs nearly 3,000 people of whom over 60% (1830) are engaged
in education. The Secretary-s and Works' Departments each have about 350
employees; Health Department 270; Treasurer's 130 and Agriculture 50.
5.28      Middle grade and senior staff are frequently moved at short notice
by the Ministry of Local Government from one Local Government Office to
another. This unsettling practice for the staff results in inefficient man-
power utilization. All staff have been asked to decide by March 31, 1981
whether they wish to be permanently assigned to Local Governments or to the
Ministry; there is the danger that OLG may lose several of its already depleted
senior staff group. Any substantial movements of senior staff from OLG will
undermine its performance and so any return to the Civil Service should be
regulated. Discussions would be held during project implementation with ANSG
to explore avenues for remedying the staff turnover and improving the overall
staff performance of OLG.
Financial Management & Systems
5.29      OLG, in common with other Local Governments, is required to
operate financial management and accounting systems in accordance with a
comprehensive document known as the Financial Memoranda which was prepared
by MLG in 1976 following substantially the earlier edition. The require-
ments and concepts are rather outdated, but do nevertheless dictate that
Vote Books - a municipal accounting record related to recurrent and capital
expenditure allocations (votes) made in the State Budget - be written up to
date and that monthly accounts be produced. The late approval of votes for
each LG by the ANSG (five months into the financial year for the last two
years) has meant that OLG has been unable to write up its Vote Books until



- 40 -
after that time or to produce any kind of relevant financial information.
Only a simple schedule of receipts and payments, listing each payer or payee
has been produced each month for the Council Meetings.
5.30      The last set of annual accounts are those for FY77 and these are
only in draft form. OLG has set up a special task force to prepare the annual
accounts for FY78 and 79. The use of the budget allocation as a basis of
analysis for receipts and payments does not lend itself to determining costs
of the various services that the Local Government provides. The main finan-
cial document in OLG is the Annual Budget prepared from September onwards and
which pursues a protracted process lasting several months until it receives
.final agreement by ANSG.  The budgets for FY79 and FY80(12) 1/ are set out in
Annex 6.5 and provide the only financial scenario available for OLG (see paras
6.16 to 6.22).
5.31      The revenues are primarily derived from government grants, market
fees/tolls, and property taxes in that order of importance (paras 6.17 to
6.19). But, the accounting system does not provide any clues regarding
whether the right costs are being charged to the right service and hence
correctly recovered. Similarly, the property tax system, although now based
on comprehensive valuation lists prepared by firms of chartered surveyors in
1979, is not being used to full advantage and the community (per capita) tax
collection is very weak.
5.32      Discussions on how to overcome these problems have been held with
MLG and OLG. Confirmation was received during negotiations, that as part of
the project expert assistance would be sought under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Such expertise would ensure the installation of
appropriate accounting and cost recovery systems in OLG and develop the
Property Rate Unit of OLG into a properly controlled billing and collection
activity. Additionally, assistance would be provided to the OLG Town Treasurer
whom it was agreed at negotiations would be appointed by OLG by September 30,
1981.
Reporting and Monitoring
5.33      Specific reporting procedures which would keep ASWC and OLG manage-
ment and the Bank informed of progress on the project, including meeting
institutional and financial objectives were discussed and agreed during
negotiations. Monitoring criteria to be included in the reporting require-
ments are listed in Annex 5.5.
1/   See Inside Front Cover regarding Nigeria's Fiscal Year.



- 41 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Anambra State Water Corporation
Past and Present Financial Performance
6.01      At the time of its creation in 1976 the ASWC took over various
assets and liabilities from the East Central State Water Board. For various
reasons, ASWC's records have been deficient from the outset. The State
Auditor General who had audited the 1977 Accounts agreed with the ASWC to have
these re-audited, and the 1978 and subsequent accounts audited by independent
professional auditors. The auditors were appointed in February 1980 but their
reports have not yet been received. Available records of past operations
reflect accounting weaknesses, suffer serious gaps and lack commercial orienta-
tion. Existing accounts do not therefore form an adequate basis for a meaning-
ful assessment of ASWC's past financial performance. During negotiations, it
was agreed that ASWC would continue to use a firm of independent professional
auditors. Furthermore, it was also agreed that there would be a more timely
preparation and audit of ASWC's accounts and the production of separate
accounts and audit for Onitsha Zone.
6.02      In the past, the ASWC has received operating subsidies from the
ANSG. These have been justified on the grounds that the ASWC was providing a
basic need without adequate cost recovery mechanism. While corrective actions
are underway and would be reinforced by the proposed OMIP (Annex 7.1) the need
for subsidies can be expected to continue for some time. Consultants have
determined that at FY80 prices, ASWC's recurrent expenditures should amount to
some N6.5 million, made up of N3.2 million for normal operations and mainte-
nance, N2.6 million for Headquarters and zones salaries and wages, and NO.7
million for other charges. For the 9 months of April 1 to December 31, 1980,
and after allowing for price increases, this is equivalent to N 6.2 million
(Nl.7 million for Onitsha Zone). Expected revenues would leave a N4.5 million
gap. However, it will take some time before the ASWC is geared to incur this
level of expenditure. The N2.7 million provided by ANSG for FY80(9) is
probably closer to ASWC-s absorptive capacity. During negotiations agreement
was reached for the continuation of annual State Government recurrent expendi-
ture subventions, pending revenue generation improvement by the ASWC.
Tariffs
6.03      The aspects of economic pricing, in relation to present tariff
structures and expected new tariff levels have already been dealt with in
paras. 4.06 to 4.08. From a financial point of view, substantial improvements
in the operating efficiency, rigorous debt recovery, optimal use of the
production capacity, and annual tariff increases of about 25% per annum for
several years after an initial 50% increase in FY1982 will be required for
the Project area (Onitsha Zone) to attain financial viability. Given the very
low level of existing tariffs, the proposed increase would result in levels
which would still compare favorably with those of neighboring countries.



- 42 -
Financial Strategy
6.04      Neither the ASWC as a whole, nor any of its Zones, is presently
financially viable. As the main thrust of the Bank investment would be in
the Onitsha Zone, improved financial performance would be pursued in that
Zone first, gradually extended to other Zones and then to the Water Corpora-
tion as a whole. It is anticipated that the Onitsha Zone would not move
towards financial viability until FY83, and state subventions will be neces-
sary for the Onitsha Zone during this interim period. Because of the transi-
tion from being heavily dependent upon Government for subvention to meet
its operating expenses to one of financial self sufficiency, the financial
strategy would be targetted over the period of project execution. Financial
viability in Onitsha Zone would eventually be achieved by adopting the cash
generation approach and financial discipline set down below. The same dis-
cipline would be extended to Enugu Zone in FY82, to Nsukka and Abakaliki Zones
in FY83 and to other zones by dates to be agreed during project execution.
During negotiations, it was agreed with ASWC:
(i) that the total revenues of the Onitsha Zone would be deposited in a
separate bank account and used giving priority to the payment of the
capital and operating expenditures of that zone, including a reason-
able share of the operating expenditures of the Water Corporation's
headquarters, meeting working capital requirements and the servicing
of the debt for the Onitsha part of the water supply component in
the project;
(ii) that an exercise would be undertaken annually (commencing Fall 1981)
in consultation with the Bank to ensure that tariffs are adjusted
as necessary to generate each year in Onitsha, aggregate revenues
sufficient to meet at least 40% of its operational expenditures
(including debt service and working capital requirements) in FY1981;
to meet 80% of its operational expenditures in FY1982, and there-
after to meet 100% of its operational expenditures and contribute a
minimum of 5%, 10% and 30% towards the average capital expenditures
of the Onitsha Zone for FY1983, FY1984 and for FY1985 onwards
respectively; for Onitsha Zone the target is an average 23% of the
capital expenditure of that zone for FY1983-86;
(iii) that additional debt would not be incurred in the Onitsha Zone, or
in other selected zones, unless their combined internal cash genera-
tion covers their maximum future debt service, 1.5 times; and
(iv) that the gradual incorporation of additional zones would be done by
agreement between the Corporation and the Bank.
6.05      The above strategy is appropriate for ASWC, since it proposes
attainable, realistic targets while contemplating the eventual integration
of all zones under the same financial discipline. The cash generation
covenant outlined above is also well indicated because:



- 43 -
(i) its implementation recognizes the continued financial support
required by the ASWC from the State Government in the early years
of project execution;
(ii) it is more readily understood by ASWC and ANSG officials who are
used to the Federal and State Governments' approach of budgeting to
meet cash flow requirements;
(iii) its implementation requires a lower level of sophistication of
ASWC's management and accounting staff; and
(iv) it addresses the crucial aspects of forward financial planning more
directly, requiring ASWC to forecast operating costs and investment
plans at least two years in advance and to establish its tariffs in
relation to those forecasts.
Financing Plan
6.06      In line with the financial strategy described in paras 6.04 and 6.05,
the financial projections which appear in Annexes 6.2 to 6.5 relate to the
Onitsha Zone. They are based on (i) an in-depth analysis of ASWC's records
and operations by its consultants, and (ii) various assumptions as shown in
Annex 6.1. Mainly it has been assumed that tariffs would increase by 50% from
January 1, 1982 and by 25% per annum in the four succeeding years. These
percentages and the timing reflect increased costs and inflation estimated
since the previous tariff increase as well as the availability of more water
to consumers. It is also expected that unaccounted for water in Onitsha Zone
would fall from about 30% in FY1980(9) to about 22.5% by FY1985 (para 2.13).
Operating and capital expenditures have been adjusted to reflect expected
local and international inflation. Interest payments on the proposed loan
during the grace period would be met by ANSG to ease the cash flow position
of both ASWC as a whole and its Onitsha Zone.
6.07      Based on the foregoing assumptions the Onitsha Zone Sources and
Applications of Funds Statements, which appear in Annex 6.2 may be summarized
as follows (in million Nairas):



- 44 -
1981
to    % of
Item/FY                        1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1986   Total
Sources
Cash Generation              0.3   0.6   1.6   2.2   4.6   8.2  17.5    31%
Debt Service                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   2.3   3.3         6%
Net Cash Generation         0.1   0.4   1.4   2.0   4.4   5.9  14.2    25%
Proposed IBRD Loan
(Onitsha Only)              0.2   5.5  11.1   5.1   2.6   1.4  25.9    45%
Govt. Contributions           1.1   6.1   7.2   1.3   0.9   0.5  17.1    30%
Total                     1.4  12.0  19.7   8.4   7.9   7.8  57.2   100%
Requirements
Proposed IBRD Project         1.3  11.6  19.3   7.4   4.5   1.9  46.0    80%
Other Projects                -      -     -      -    1.0   4.5   5.5    10%
Total Investments         1.3  11.6  19.3   7.4   5.5   6.4  51.5    90%
Working Capital Incr.        0.1   0.4   0.4   1.0   2.4   1.4   5.7    10%
1.4  12.0  19.7   8.4   7.9   7.8  57.2   100%
6.08      On this basis, the Onitsha Zone would generate about 25% of its
total capital requirements, the Government 30%, and the Bank 45%.  After
utilizing N5.7 million for desperately needed working capital increases in
Onitsha Zone, N8.5 million would be available towards capital investment in
the project and in the start up of phase two expenditure in FY1985. Because
of ASWC's financial situation, internally generated funds would not contribute
to investment in Onitsha Zone until FY1983.
6.09      During negotiations ANSG agreed that, during the project period, it
would allocate the amounts necessary to meet the financing requirement of the
proposed project including any cost overruns. This would be after taking into
account the amounts available from the proposed IBRD loan and the internal
cash generation of the Onitsha Zone. ANSG also agreed that such budgetary
allocations would be deposited, in advance each quarter, in the special bank
account to be used exclusively by ASWC for the capital expenditures of the
water supply components of the proposed project.
6.10      Current projections indicate that net cash generation as a percen-
tage of total investments will be lower in the early years of project execution
than in the latter years. However, the financial strategy set down in 6.04(ii)
ensures a steady development and improvement in internal cash generation. In
FY1985 the percentage rises to over 30% (N2.0m) which reflects the combined
results of expected tariff action, increased water sales, improved billing and
collection and reduction in unaccounted for water. Debt service is covered at
least 2 times in FY86 and FY87 when the full burden of servicing its share of
the IBRD loan falls on Onitsha Zone-s finances.



- 45 -
Future Financial Performance
6.11      The Onitsha Zone projected Income Statements appear in Annex 6.3.
These may be summarized as follows (in million Nairas):
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Revenues 1/                     2.3 2/  2.9 2/  4.2       6.2      9.3    13.7
Expenses 1/                     2.0      2.2     2.5      4.0      4.7     5.5
Gross Income                  0.3     0.7      1.7      2.2     4.6      8.2
Depreciation                    1.2      2.0     3.1      5.1      6.7     8.2
Operating Income (Deficit)   (0.9)   (1.3)   (1.4)   (2.9)   (2.1)          -
Interest                        0.1      -        -        -       -       1.5
Net Income (Deficit)         (0.8)   (1.3)   (1.4)   (2.9)  (2.1)    (1.5)
1/    Excluding Rehabilitation Program.
2/    Including Subvention of N1.1 m (FY81) and NO.2 m (FY82).
6.12      Operating costs (excluding depreciation) exceed revenues during FY81
and are marginally less than revenues in FY82 - these are expected to be the
last two years in which recurrent expenditure subvention should be required
for Onitsha Zone. Thereafter operating costs (excluding depreciation) are not
expected to exceed 65% of revenues.
6.13      Although net deficits are forecast, the Onitsha Zone could be in a
healthy cash position by the end of the project period (see para. 6.10). The
main reason for the deficit position is the high annual depreciation provi-
sions resulting from the revaluation of fixed assets. The annual revaluation
has been calculated on a basis consistent with the local and foreign inflation
factors used in costing the project. The rate of return on average revalued
net fixed assets in operation during project execution would be negative or
bordering on zero (FY86) at the forecast tariff levels. During negotiations,
the ASWC agreed (i) to maintain its assets at current prices through annual
revaluation using valuation methods acceptable to the Bank, and (ii) to
provide for annual depreciation based on revalued assets.



- 46 -
6.14      The Onitsha Zone projected Balanced Sheets appear in Annex 6.4.
These are summarized as follows (in million Nairas):
Item/FY                    1981    1982    1983       1984    1985    1986
ASSETS
Fixed Assets (Revalued)  6.3       17.3    35.3      40.2    44.9    50.7
Current Assets            0.6       1.0     1.5       2.4      4.8     6.3
Total                   6.9      18.3    36.8      42.6    49.7    57.0
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities       0.4       0.5     0.6       0.7      1.4     2.3
Long-Term Debt            0.8       6.0    16.9      21.8    23.5    23.2
Equity                    5.7      11.8    19.3      20.1    24.8    31.5
Total                  6.9      18.3    36.8      42.6    49.7    57.0
6.15      In Onitsha Zone the value of fixed assets will grow by eight times
during project execution from 1981 to 1986, an annual compound increase of 50%.
Current ratio is not expected to fall below 1.5 and debt to debt and equity
ratio would not go above 52% (FY84).
B.   ONITSHA LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Financial Performance
6.16      As indicated in para 5.30 recent financial performance cannot be
assessed for Onitsha Local Government due to lack of annual accounts. The only
available data are annual budgets (see Annex 6.5). OLG's three main sources
of income derive from grants, taxes and other charges; for FY80 (12) these were
forecast to amount to N4.1 million, N1.O million and N2.9 million respectively.
They are discussed below.
6.17      OLG's main source of income consists of government grants.  Of the
funds allotted by the Federal and State Governments to local government, 25%
is allocated equally between the 23 Local Governments in Anambra State and 75%
on the basis of their respective population (projected from 1963 for each
local government). For FY80 (12) the amount of State Government grant was not
known until June 1979, which prevented the annual estimates from being approved
until August 1979 -- some five months after the year had started. Steps have
been taken at both the Federal and State levels to try and improve on the
budgetary allocation system. Additionally, a new revenue allocation formula
has been developed by FGN which will improve the financial status of most LGs
throughout Nigeria.



- 47 -
6.18      Taxation revenues include the property and the community rates.  The
present property rate is 10 kobos per Ni of annual value. The determination
of this annual value is the responsibility of the MLG who in 1978 retained a
firm of surveyors to assess properties in all urban areas of Anambra. Property
rates were expected to produce N360,000 in FY80 (12) including recovery of
arrears of N100,000. The Community Rate of N10 is a per capita tax on all
employed people of 16 years and upwards; collection is hit and miss but was
expected to produce N300,000 in FY80 (12) including N50,000 from previous
years.
6.19      The third source of income derives from the application of charges
for various services and licences. The largest single source of revenue is
from the operation of the markets which produce N1.8 million in stallage
fees and NO.3 million in market tolls. Motor park fees amount to NO.15
million and liquor license fees to NO.35 million. Although these are sub-
stantial revenues, the OLG has no way of knowing from its accounts whether
or not it is covering all the costs incurred in the operation of its markets
or for any other OLG service.
6.20      Of all recurrent expenditure (N6.03 million), 80% relates to employee
costs (N4.84 million); the cost analysis between departments is similar to
the employee analysis in para. 5.27 with the Education Department accounting
for over 60% of all costs.
6.21      The capital expenditure budget for FY80 (12) included inter alia:
(i) the second NO.5 million installment of a N1.O million loan to Anambra
State Water Corporation; (ii) the provision of NO.6 million for construction
of roads, bridges and drains in places to be specified by the Town Engineer;
(iii) N1.O million for the purchase of plant associated with construction of
roads, bridges and drains and (iv) NO.2 million for night-soil disposal
equipment.
6.22      Until the annual accounts have been produced, accounting systems
reviewed, budgetary control introduced and cost recovery mechanisms worked
out, no reliable future financial performance can be predicted for OLG.
An undertaking was given by OLG at negotiations that these matters would be
properly addressed with expert assistance (para. 5.32).
Cost Recovery for Sanitation Components
6.23      During appraisal of the project, discussions were held with MLG
and OLG regarding financial arrangements to support the operation and
maintenance, replacement and debt service requirements of the solid waste
management program. The approach considered most appropriate was the annual
allocation of funds in OLG budget commencing FY81 to meet all operational
costs and to create funds adequate to meet debt service and asset renewal.
By FY83, the third and final year of project execution total costs are
expected to be approximately NO.87 million and NO.7 million for the refuse
and night soil programs respectively; these are equivalent to per capita
costs of about N2.9 for refuse and N2.3 for night soil. It is expected that
costs would be recovered by improved revenue billing and collection (including
property tax, stallage fees, market tolls, motor park fees, and liquor license



- 48 -
fees) by the OLG. Additionally it is believed that the population of Onitsha,
resident and itinerant, has the capacity to pay higher property taxes and
market fees and tolls. During negotiations, OLG agreed that adequate funds
would be earmarked and provided for in the annual budget of OLG to ensure the
effective operation of the solid waste management programs to be introduced by
the project.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Merit and Risks
7.01      The proposed water supply components will provide Onitsha with a
reliable supply of safe water, eliminate present shortages and strengthen the
system substantially. During the project approximately 260,000 additional
people, most of them low-income, will for the first time have access to piped
water as a result of the project. The sanitation component for Onitsha will
bring about substantial benefits to most of the urban population by the opera-
tion of regular refuse and night-soil collection in many low-income areas. The
health education program will increase awareness of the Onitsha population to
the incidence of diseases from bad habits in the use of water supply and its
disposal.
7.02      The risks of implementing a complex project are being reduced by the
establishment of a Project Steering Committee in Anambra State comprising all
sub-project responsible officers and representatives of ministries involved
in the project. Certain risks arise from the preliminary nature of the cost
estimates for the drainage and solid wastes component. Detailed designs of
the Onitsha water supply component are now available for the largest items to
be implemented and have been accounted for in the revised cost estimates.
7.03      The scarcity of qualified and experienced senior staff in ASWC has
caused management deficiencies. Staff shortages must be corrected if ASWC is
to implement this project efficiently and become financially less dependent on
the State. However, appointment of senior Nigerian and expatriate staff, for
which recruitment is under way is encouraging indication that ASWC is taking
appropriate action and ANSG is supporting this approach. Similarly development
and implementation of the training program is expected to provide adequately
qualified staff at the operating levels. Since the required expertise remains
limited and much sought after in Nigeria, the project carries some risk of
ASWC not being able to attract or retain competent management and staff in
sufficient numbers despite the relevant provisions of the project.
7.04      Because of its complexity, the Project will require considerably
higher and more varied manpower inputs for supervision, particularly in the
early stages of implementation, than allowed for by existing Bank supervision
coefficients. While staff will try and schedule missions to Nigeria so as to
optimize use of time - as for instance supervising the project in conjunction
with preparation of another project, etc. - the resulting time available for
this Project will still be insufficient unless the supervision coefficient is
raised substantially.



- 49 -
Agreements Reached
7.05      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following
points:
(i)  from Federal Government of Nigeria
the proposed lending and onlending arrangements (para.
3.15-3.16);
(ii)  from Anambra State Government
(a)  the onlending arrangements (para. 3.15-3.17);
(b)  project financing including cost overruns; timely availability
of yearly budget allocations to the implementing agencies, no
later than three months after the beginning of each fiscal year
(para 3.17); and quarterly and in advance transfer of all con-
tributions for the water supply component to a bank account
managed by ASWC (para 6.09);
(c)  discussion and endorsement of mutually agreed recommendations
on personnel statute for ASWC before June 30, 1982 (para. 5.07);
(d)  undertaking of any action required for the water sector
regarding:
(el)  restoration of an ASWC Board of members and operations
in accordance with ASWC Edict 1978 (para 5.03);
(e2)  notification to the Bank of changes in the post of
General Manager (para. 5.08);
(e3)  meeting shortfalls in operating expenditure for all ASWC
zones until revenue is sufficient (para. 6.02);
(e4)  endorsement of necessary tariff levels and structures
agreed with ASWC to generate desired cash flow (para.
6.06);
(e)  recruiting consultants for the construction supervision of the
sanitation component (para. 3.19);
(f)  undertaking to meet costs of standpipe consumption should LGs
default (para 4.11).
(iii)  from Onitsha Local Government (OLG)
(a)  recruitment of (i) a competent head of the Sanitation Depart-
ment at an early date; (ii) at least two technical experts
(para. 5.26), and a Town Treasurer (para 5.32) before
September 30, 1981; and (iii) experts for improving traffic
control and accounting systems (para 5.26 and 5.32);



- 50 -
(b) timely and appropriate release of funds to ASWC for the
payment of standpipe water consumption (para. 4.11);
(c) allotment of appropriate budget requirements for operations
and maintenance of the solid wastes and night soil activities
including debt service and equipment replacement (para. 6.23);
(d) implementation of improved accounting systems as agreed
between MLG, OLG and the Bank arising out of an expert review
(para. 5.32).
(iv) from Anambra State Water Corporation
(a) opening of a bank account into which would be deposited
quarterly and in advance all ANSG budgetary allocations for
the water supply component (para 6.09);
(b) extension of the financial discipline and cash generation
approach to zones other than Onitsha by agreed dates (para.
6.04);
(c) opening of a separate bank account for Onitsha Zone into
which would be deposited all revenues of that Zone and out of
which would be met capital and operating expenditures of that
zone, a reasonable share of ASWC Headquarter expenses and
servicing of debt for the Onitsha part of the water supply
component (para 6.04);
(d) reviewing annually with the Bank a three year rolling average
of its cash requirements and taking the consequential tariff
action (para. 6.04);
(e) refraining from incurring additional debt unless the internal
cash generation of Onitsha Zone (and aggregated with other
zones as agreed from time to time) covers future debt service
1.5 times (para. 6.04);
(f) recruitment of (i) a commercial adviser (para. 5.14); (ii) chief
training officer (para 5.08) two mechanical and electrical
superintendents (para 5.10) all appointed before September 30,
1981; and (iii) five additional operations experts (para 3.09
B2), and a training expert (para 5.19);
(g) early appointment and retention of a project manager (para
3.23) and a commercial manager (para 5.14) both having
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and
(h) endorsement of the Operations and Management Improvement
Program as specified in Annex 7.1 (para 3.09 B3).



- 51 -
7.06      It is recommended that the following points be condition of:
(i)  Effectiveness
Signing of subsidiary loan agreements between FGN and ANSG;
ANSG and ASWC, and between ANSG and OLG;
(ii)  Disbursement for the Urban Infrastructure Civil Works Component
Submission to the Bank of an approved layout plan of Okpoko
(para 2.21).
Recommendation
7.07      On the basis of these agreements and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$67.0 million at the current rates for interest
and commitment fees to be repaid over 20 years including a 5-year grace
period.



NI1ERIA
ANAnBRA STATE NATElt SUPPLY PROJECT
ON17sIA UATER CONSURP71oN PROJECTIONS
ASWC I ONITSNA REVENUE PROJECTIONS
C                                                                                       --- ---- ---- ---- ------_------ ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- -- -- ---- ---- ---- ----
10                                YEAR              1980          1981         1982          1983          1984          1t95         18           1987          1908         1939          199
POPULATION
x. Po                             291900        306300       321200         338200       354600       372300        19tto0        4t0500        43t000       452600        47520
DOWESTIC CONSUMPTION
03             PRIVAtE  IOUSE CONNECTIONO
ND. OF CONN.                        J600          6300          7300         8600         10200         12300        14400         17100         19900         22700         257"
PER rAPT.CONS.tCU n/DAYD           0.112         0.114         0.117         0.121        0.125         0.130         0.135        0.139         0.142         0.147         0.151
FEREONS PER CONN,                      11            is           0             9             I            8             a             a             a             8             0
NO.OF PEOPLE SERVFD                61600         69300         73500        30200        8*800         101700        122000       143700        159200        181600        205600
SUBTOT. CONS.(CU N/DAT)             6899          7900          8620          9678        10743         13222         16447        19949         22658         26745         30V64
COURFYARn CONNECTIONS
NO. nF CONN.                        1000          1340          1990         2800          3900          5200          6600         8100          9700          11200         12500
PER rAFT.CONS.(CU   ID/YA)         0.055         0.052         0.055         0.055        0.053         0.055        0.055         0.055         0.055          0.055        0.0SS
FEREIYIS PIEP CORN,                    20            20           20            20            18           to            t8            17            57            16            Is
NO OF FEOPFE SERVED              19900         26620        38840         54800         71850        91200        116000        133700        160100        178600        197400
USUTOT. CONS.(CU N/DAY)              1095         1464          2136          3014         3952          5016          6380         7354          8504           9823         1OS57
STANIF IPES
NO. OF STANSFPIES                     60           1oo           140           240          340           400          400           350           300            250           200
rEE CAPT.CONS(CU N/ODAT)           0.025         0.025         0.025        0.025         0. 02-        0.025        0.025         0.025         0.02s          0.025         O.Of
FESSONS3 FER STANDPSPE                600          600           521           0oo          400           350           350          340           335            330           323
NO. OF PEOPLE SFRVED               36000         60000         72940       120000        134000        140000       140000        119000        100500          82500         64400
SUSTOT.CONSNICU n/DAY)                900         1500          1824          3000         3400          3500          3500         2975          2513           2063          1151
TOTALS
TOTAL ND. OF CONN.                  660O          7740         9430         11640        14440         17900         21600        25550         29900          34450         39400
ITAL No. OF PEOPLE SERV          117500        155920       185280        252000       293650        332900        37000(1      396400        419800         442700        467600
l,IT.fnCM.CONs.(CU n/D)             8894         10864        12580         15692         18095        2173i         26327         3027P         33976          38630         43440
IERCENT.FRIv.CONN.                 0.211         0.226        0.229         0.237        0.242         0.273         0.312         0.350         0.369          0.401         0.433
*Y1rEN.T COURTYARD                 0.066         0.007        0.121         0.162        0.0            .4            .97.         036           031            0395          0.4153
-'cECET RSTANDP.                  0.123         0.196        0.227         0.355         0.384        0.376         0.358         0.2P0         0.233          0,102         0.136
FFOPORT. OF POP,SERv9D             0.403         0.509        0.577         0.754         0.o28        0.894         0.967         0.966         0.974          0.978         0. "4
._ . _  .,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, z   = ,,,_s ...... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ...........  ............. . ...............  ....,
Con. tINSTIT.CONSUMPTIO8                                                       -
CONSIUPTION                         1315          2173         2810          3589          4257         4928          5700          6460          7200           8100          8680
CONNECTED INDUSTRIES
CONSUI4PTION                         500          1191         1508          2334          3667         5008          6500          8300         110o0          12900         15245
1TAIL cUcHsIllSIO                  10709         14228        16898         21615         24019        31674         38527         45038        52176           59630         67164
TCTAL N0. OF CCtECTIONS             6945          8065        9s00          12053         14807        18408         22160         26159         30558          35148         I.n
ro. nF  CONNECTIONS NETER                                                                                                                                                                       5.2
11 OF TOTAL CONNECTICRS STEMED)      281 (41)      325(41)     2910(301)    4119(341)    5311(361)    6958 (38)    1144(611)   11293 (431)   1367&(45%)    16261 (us)   19119(4au
V'01 LliN  MFTERED
(1CYF TOTAL CCRSUOPTICSI)           8165 (171)   3364(24I)  10558(621)   13265(611)  16272(631)   20397 (641)  25663(6n)   31368 (7(I)  37114t lI)    43691 (7n)   5001(?M)
sysli.m EFFICIENCY
"YEkAGE DAY                        0.700         0.715        0.730         0.745        0.760         0.775         0.790        0.800         0.810           0.820         0.020
/EA, PAY                           0.710         0.725        0.740         0.755         0.770        0.780         0.790         0.800        0.810           0.825         0.25
.IR.'GE  PAY                       15298         19900        23148         29013         34235        40871         48768        56297         64415           72720        82152
FEAK I-AY                          19276         24720        28655         35755         41864        50157         40153        69216         78726           86245        99Y15



NIGERIA: ANAMBRA STATE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ONITSHA - DEMAND PROJECTIONS
10,00 0o
8900                      _e=199 
800~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
700                     .-f-. PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION SEFRVEO                                                                                     70 
600                             T,_ _ _                                                                               _2 _                          6o
Soo                                                                                                                                                50 o
10 
3-400                                                                                                                                                    &  -._4 
2S_  ONIT SHA -POPULATIO N PROJECTION . 
300                                                                                                                                                   30
200    _                                                                                                                                           20
__ __                                                               _    . . . e  _A V E R A G E   P R O D U C T IO N
PEAK DAY PRODUCTION                                        -        =                   PEAK DAY DEMAND
........O                        AVERAGE  TOTAL   DEMAND
_   _   _   _                                  _    _ _                                                                                            0
60                                                         = ECT CONTR  _UT ON                                                                    B0 _ -   qO   .DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION
ASWC-CRASH PROIGRAM                                                                              N.. r  -     4    _                         10.-
40                     pplp. --            0                                        _    _         _
4( |   | (mid 1980)   *</# _ ! [s-  ~~~    o  S _ _ _                             No of Domestic Conoectioos                 0 
40                                                  J
30           MP,//           W Z;          --   S t                                                                                            30
00                                                                                                                           ........ *--  INDiUS 1-INDUI TRIAL CONSUMPTION
20  "E!4.  - - -                                                                  .... . ......              2~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 iCoonteod to the SYsterel
--- >t ito*............. _-COMMERCIAL ADMINISTRATIVE
0.                                                             /t T *+X-  _ _ AND INSTITUTIONAL CONSUMPTION
>   10t                                                                                                                 _____|_______ho _
rq7   W< Supp,Is wd                                                                                                     ! _ _    _ _ _7                   O
_61      Demsnd|                                                                                         _.6                                            u
0SL                  ___1____s
-E  |  Supprei' ed                                                                                                      ___ __ ___|
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
z                                                                                             An.a Grm nd+t-  |
It 
i       19     1       198    198    18  .16   1987   1998  1989   1980  1991   192             9                   6   1997   199 8   1999   20t0
World 8ank-21679



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.of2
Page I of 2
NIGERIA
AAI2BR,; b;ATER SUPPLY f SANlThTION PR8E2(7
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Base Coste.PhysicalnPrice Costs
Items                                          Foreign Costs      Local Costs      Total Costs            Foreign Costs      Local Costs      Total Coats
-------------~-uuw-------------          ----- ----cost in US$ 000- ---------
Water Supply
Al.  ;quipent
Supply and rrection of Tre-tment ldent                1,270             600         1,870                     2,309             1,091           3,400
Supply and irection of Pumping Plant                  2,500           1,230         3,730                     4,545             2,237           6,782
Supply of Pipea-Risisg & Primary halos                2,700             400         3,100                     4,909               727           5,631
Supply of Fipes-Sec-ndary Hains and
House Connections                                    3,360             840         4,200                     6,109             1,527           7,6j6
Supply of Meters and Standpipes                         400              50           450                       728                90             818
Sub-Total Base Costs                        10,230            3,120        13.350                   18,600              5,672          24,272
Physical Contingencies (8/2                  1,003              389         1,392                    1,824                707           2,531
Price Contingencies                          2,287            1,736        4,023                     4,207              3,156           7,363
A2.   Civil Works
Civil Engineering for Headnorks                       2,785           1,315         4,100                     5,063             2,391            7,454
Reservoirs                                            2,000           1,580         3,580                     3,636             2,873           6,509
Laying of Rising and Primary Mains                      410           1,660         2,070                       745             3,018           3,763
Laying of Secondary and Tertiary Bairn                3,000           3,290         6,290                     5,454             5,982          11,436
inhahti!;ttino  a-d Corrections :-naro                  -               575           575                       -               1,045           1,045
n.orc _c'c.   n1 1i!n4 40                                               60           100                        73               109             182
nih-total Dane Costs                         8,235           8,480        16,715                    14,971            15,418          30,389
Physical Contingencies                          905           1,248         2,153                    1,645              2,269           3,914
Prime Contingeeci-s                             S            4,u06         4,818                     1,476              7,284           8,760
A.3   Buildings & comu-atlns
Intereonal Radio System                                 260              60           320                       473               109             582
Onitaha Zonal Cffices                                   iSO             300           450                       273               545             818
Enugu Headquarters                                      270             460           730                       491               836           1,327
Construction of Staff Quarters                          220              530           750                      400               964           1,364
Construction & Eqoipoent of Workshops
in iEugu & Cnitsla                                     240             245           485                       436               445             881
Sub-Total                                     1,140           1,595         2,735                    2,073              2,899           4,972
Physical Contingencies (10%)                    154             200           354                       280               364             644
Price Contingencies                             274             648           922                      498              1,178           1,676
A.4   Training & Technical Assistance
Training Component                                      620             449         1,069                     1,127               816           1,943
Technical Assistants                                  645             215           860                     1,173               390           1,563
rroject Management Assistant                            124              41           165                       225                75             300
Project Preparation Facility                            250              -            250                      455                 -              455
Sub-Total                                    1,639             705         2,344                     2,940             1,281           4,221
Physical Contingencies                          43              32            75                        78                58             136
Price Contingencies (T.A.)                     216              60           276                       392               109             501
Price Contingencies (Training)                 157              99           256                       285               180             465
As.    Design. Supervision and Studies
Detailed Design Cnitsha                                 650             200           f50                    1,182                364           1,546
Detailed Design En.u.                                   170              30           200                       309                55             364
Supervision Onitsha 6 Enugu                           1,200             500         1,700                    2,182                909           3,091
Detailed Design and Supervision for Buildings           165              55           220                       300               100             400
Enugu Feasibility Studies                               450             150           600                      818                273           1,091
Onitsha Ground Water Alluvium                           310             190           500                       564               345             909
Sub-Total                                    2,945           1,125         4,070                     5,355             2,046           7,401
Price Contingencies                            305             125           430                       555               227             782
Sub-Total A /  Base Costs                   24,189          15,025        39,214                    43,939            27,316          71,255
Physical Contingencies       2,105           1,869         3.974                     3,827             3,398           7,225
Price Contingencies          4,051           6,674        10,725                     7,413            12,134          19,547
30,345          23,568        53,913                   55,179             42,848         98,027
Revised 1/27/81



- 55 -
AhNLA 3.1
Page 2 of 2
Foreign Costs      Local Costs      Total Coats            Foreign Costs    Local Costs    Total Costs
-'______ _______ ______|000 N----------------               ----------Cost in US  '000----------------
B. Lrban Infrastructure E Health
Hi.  Drainage and Sanitation in initsha
Construction of Public Convenience                           40                70               110                      73              127             72c
Construction of Rehabil. of Road Side Drains               480                500              980                      873              9C9            1,782
Construction of Drains ard Canals                         1,613             1,632            3,245                    2,932            2,968            5,900
Stb-Total                                          2,133              2.202            4.335                   1797             4,014            7.892
Physical Contingencies                               220               240               460                     'CC              436              836
Price Contingencies                                  493                443              936                     897              805            1,702
B.  Rfuse ard Night Soil
bupply of  irairags Trucks 6 .q ,ipnents                     56                14                70                     102               25              127
Supply of Refuse Lquipments E Vehicles                     863                215            1,078                    1,569              391           1,960
Supply of SIluny Tankers                                    140               560               700                     255            1,018           1,272
Construction of Depots f Garages                             25                45                70                      45               82              127
Land Preparation for Waste Disposal                         58                 87              145                      105              158             263
Sub-Total                                          1,142               921             2,063                   2,076             1,674           3,750
Physical Contingencies                               128                 74              202                     232               135             367
Price Contingencies                                  226                166              392                     411               302             713
B3.  Design Supervision and Studies
Engineering of Civil Works for Refuse                        40                10               50                       73               18              91
Supervision of Drainage Works                               225                75              300                      409              136              545
Extension of G & C Urban Report                             187                63              250                      340              115              455
Sub-Total 13                                        452               148               600                      835              269           1,104
Price Contingencies                                 100                30               130                      183               SS             738
8.4  Technical Assistance
3 Technical Assistants to GLC                              165                 55              220                      30W              100             400
Adviser to Town Engineer                                     38                12               50                       69               22               91
Municipal Financing Adviser                                164                 52              216                   _2_ 7                 94             31
Slb-Total B4                                        367               119              486                      66(               216             882
Price Contingencies                                  88                31               119                     159                56             215
B.5  Infrastructure for the Okpoko Area
improvement of Access Roads to and within Area             525               580             1,105                      945            1,055           2,000
Construction of Drains along Main Roads                    185               151               336                      366              600             936
Sub-Total B5                                       710                731            1,441                    1,291            1,645            2,936
Physical Contingencies                              70                 66              136                      126              120              246
Price Contingercies                                152                266              418                      276              418              694
B.6  Health Education
Staff for Filot Zonal Office                                 08                80                88                      15               145             16C
Health Educational Training iquipments                       60                80               140                     109               145             254
Technical Assistance                                         38                12                50                      69                22              91
Extension of Health School                                   36                84              120                       65               153             21F
Construction of Water Facilities in School                   16                66               82                       29               12C             149
Sub-Total B6                                        158               322               480                      287              585             872
Physical Contingencies                               32                64                96                       58              117             175
Price Contingencies                                  32                64                96                       58              117             175
Sub-Total B / Base Costs                                 4,962              4.443            9,405                    9,020             8,395          17,415
Physical Contingencies                      450                444              894                      817               807           1,624
Price Contingencies                       1,091              1,000            2,091                    1,984             1,752           3,736
6,503             5,887            12,390                   11,821           10,954          22,775
Total (A.B)                                    29,151              19,468          48,619                    52,959            35,531         88,490
Base Costs                                      2,525               2,313           4,838                    4.644              4,205          8,849
Physical Cortirgercie-                          5,142               7,674          12,816                    9,397             13,886         23,283
Price Contingencies
GRAN) TGTAL                                             36,818              29,455          66,273                   67,000            53,622        123,622
1 US0 = 0.556
5-15-80
Revised 8-11-80
Revised 4-10-81



ANAMBRA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Item                           Calendar &           1980                   1981                   1982                   1983                    1984                   1985
WATER SUPPLY ONITSHA
Treatment Plant Equipment                                   xea ee                _
Pumping Equipment                                           lls                                     m   ms_ +
Supply of Main     Pipes                                   loa ng   i *-  a _
Laying of Main Pipes                                      logo  long m             a    a m  *        a I a     *         W       3         I *e
Supplv of Sec. and Tert. Pipes                            Room  IB                 0 JI*wa  S t_e
Laying of Sec. and Tert. Pipes                            ts  lii    -             U = whS* ***a * e                              I oil    I        *   mm_   I s 
Headworks and Pumping Station                  ast"                              _     s          _      Mis!._._ I.
Construction of Reservoirs                                       tI                                              s   |
Supply of Meter and Connect. Equp.                                  _
I  mm~~~       mi mm ~~Direct Labor
Rehabilistat. and Connect. Program                                                                             m      -   m       -     -    -                             _     _
ASWC Headquarters and Zonal Bldgs.                                  glossa                                 m Mm       * S         I e
ASWC WorkshopsiandDepots                                            m |                                 lo  s    IN                                    I
Training of Facilities and Programs                                    Im mi       1      1         m                 m    m    m    m    mm
Technical Assistance                                                        0 S                                                =_    
Studies                                                                     li-         urn lm  m    m_
DRAINAGE AND SANITATION
Rehabilitation and Extns. of Street Drains                                      S       m    m S          m |
Construction of Maindrains and Canals                                             5                              a m    a I  l
Construction of Market Toilet Facilities                                                m =5 a
REFUSE AND NIGHTSOIL COLLECTION
Supply of Materials and Vehicles                                                    S
Technical Assistance and Implement                                          m  s    .-
OKPOKO INFRASTRUCTURE                                                m     |                                  + m    _    m    m    *
HEALTH PROGRAM                              -    -    -    -                            i                +    |    |    |                     m     - _    _m
LEGEND
umuumimii  . Preparation of Tender Documents                              S        : Contract Signing. S
W_   _ .     Review of Draft Tender Documents                                      . Manufactur and Deliver Equipment
Tender Period                                         U i       U    Construction
U    Tender Analysis Evaluation and Award                                 Erection
World Bank - 21672



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA STATE WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT
THE PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
A.   Terms of Reference
The terms of reference of the Project Steering Committee are as
follows:
(1) The Steering Committee shall administer and manage the World Bank
Loan in respect of the following project components:
A.   Water Supply
A.1 Equipment (Onitsha)
A.2 Civil Works (Onitsha)
A.3 Buildings and Communications (ASWC)
A.4 Training and Technical Assistance (ASWC)
A.5 Design, Supervision and Studies
B.   Urban Infrastructure and Health
B.1 Drainage and Sanitation
B.2 Refuse and Night Soil
B.3 Design Supervision and Studies
B.4 Technical Assistance (Onitsha Local Government)
B.5 Infrastructure for the Okpoko Area
B.6 Health Education
The Committee shall ensure that the loan is utilized for the
purpose for which it is meant. In this regard, the Committee shall be res-
ponsible for overall supervision and coordination of the project components.
The Project Unit shall have executive responsibility for the components and
the Project Manager shall report to the Project Steering Committee regarding
progress of project, and attend its meetings.
(2) The Committee shall ensure that contracts awarded in respect of
the projects by the State Government and its agencies and the Onitsha Local
Government are properly and efficiently executed.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Committee to coordinate the activities
of all agencies of the State Government and Onitsha Local Government concerned
with the project and ensure that all obstacles and unnecessary delays are
removed and eliminated.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 2
(4) The Committee shall ensure that all contractual obligations,
financial or otherwise, entered into with the World Bank, consulting and
construction firms, and field experts engaged in the various schemes are fully
and promptly met.
(5) In all policy matters in respect of the loan and project execution,
the Committee shall act as an advisory body to the State Government.
(6) The Committee shall take all other necessary measures conducive to
the speedy and efficient completion of the project.
(7) The Ministry of Public Utilities shall provide administrative and
Secretarial services to the Steering Committee.
(8) In all the above matters, it shall be the duty of the Committee
to forward regular reports to the Commissioner for Public Utilities, at least
once a month. It shall also ensure that the periodic reporting requirements
fo the world Bank are met on a timely basis.
B.   Composition of Project Steering Committee
(1)  Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Public Utilities (Chairman)
(Mr. G. A. Ugwuegede)
(2)  Principal Planning Officer, Ministry of Economic Development
(Vice Chairman) (Mr. M. S. Anyaegbo)
(3)  Chief Health Officer, Ministry of Health (Dr. H. U. Ozoh)
(4)  Chief Planning Officer, Ministry of Local Government
(Dr. P. N. Agbalaka)
(5)  Secretary for Development, Ministry of Finance (Mr. 0. N. Mbanefo)
(6)  Under Secretary, Onitsha Local Government (Mr. C. C. Obinegbo)
(7)  Assistant Chief Engineer, Ministry of works (Mr. J. C. Ndupuechi)
(8)  Chief Engineer, Anambra State Water Corporation (Mr. E. N. Okongwu)
(9)  Project Manager, of ASWC World Bank Project Unit



- 59 -
ANNEX 4.1
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ASWC: Existing Tariffs as of 1/1/1980
Monthly Minimum        Monthly Meter
Category                          Charge/m3 2/    Consumption Charge        Service Charge
1. METERED SUPPLY:
i)  Industry and Commerce         35K/m3              N 50                    N 10
ii) Government offices,
Institutions (e.g.
Boarding Schools,
Hospitals, Armed
Forces)                     25K/m3               N  5                   N  5
iii) Domestic
consumption including
churches, schools, and
charitable organizations   20K/m3                N  5                   N  2
Assuming a
Typical flat      Average         Household        Per capita
Category                   rate/month       price/r3 2/    size of 1/   consumption of
2. UNMETERED SUPPLY:
i)  Standpipe consumption 
ii)  Courtyard connections  N  3.50         32K               8                 45 lpcd
for 2 rooms   27K               8                 55 lpcd
iii) Private connections-
Apartment            N  7.00        33K              7                100 lpcd
23K             10                100 lpcd
iv) Private connections-
Duplex               N 15.00        47K              7                150 lpcd
v)  Single House            N 30.00         61K              8                200 lpcd
50K             10                200 lpcd
1/ Assuming no sharing of connection.
2/100 K = N 1 = US$1.82



Water Tariffs in Selected Western African Countries
_-                 rrit,e by  lsbic  -eter tI U.S. 5 by b4nds st.lcd in ca.../Ionth
Tariff, for          Acecss -
co.nt~y  cityM.n         Year       amberof              a,a  0                        0     0 '0    0 0                           0    0  ,o 0 ,C     0              0 o               standpipes          of Lser
Counztro           Clty/Tol.n        Y          par  Inhabicjoi                                                           .. a  a. o          a R  a    8  8   o8.~  Co  0;    g'  , ah at        (from  sIpplierr       (o=pplieer
.-.   .-7                      eq ';     O a       to municipality)        s Water
0                        ~~~~~~Seller)
CA'ECf8(         20 cemtrs,  ncl.    I               1750000    .675                                 .625                                         .6             .575      .55 |       525                  .38                  1
Doou la, Y.o..,d6          O
CO AS            Abidj.n, Ro-ald         1978                      .45                745 of  hich 11;,   eree  urchagesi                                             .655           |.45  .29             .36            -
G C ri C S                               1977                       ..  .775                                                        .875 S
rIil' PR VCLIA    Iong dn',oo            1979          216,COO          3                   37                    .6          1                             .85                                            .35                  w
B bo Dioulasso                        16C,000        .                                                       I ._.
SEN[EGAL         Dkebr-Cop Vart          1979          986,660       39.78                                                              .703                                                                 40
LaoI c s                1979          10,879      39.78                                                               .578                                                               .27                  F
Other                                              36.27                                                               .563                                                               .26                  E
LIDLRIA          I onrovi.               1979          350,000                                  .642                                                    .872                                               .402                 F
37f- whic,hc      of which 377 sewerage             Iof which 37r  sewcrage s.rcharg,r
*urchargos              surcharge,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5    .. .                                                 .
Cl INEA,         Coca-ty                1977           50(,000                                                                           .50          A-nual                                                                   F
of whilcla 12.5L' eeaer.8e suecharte.                                          Lusmp Sum
NIGERIA          Kad,,na                 1977           762,000      dasatit     0.31        i.dustrial; 0.56
O.it.h.                1980           292,000       domestic unmreted:  1.93-3.08/eooo                    domestic me.tred: 0.38        industries:  0.64                               0.31                   F
1/  ecopbc a-ing s-L-dpipes pay the water seller.  Thera is no official
tariff, btt the ..it peica Ic often, ,titLpliad by 5.
US$1 s CFAF 200
Dec. 1980
0~
H.1-



I.   INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
ONITSHA:   TOTAL COST/BENEFITS  (IN N 1000)  IN BORDER PRICES-/
(A)   At existing  tariffs                                                             (B) At  future tariffs
T0TAL              TOTAL               NET                                             TITAL               TOTAL               KT
INCREMENTAL        INCREMENTAL         INCtElENTAL                                     INCREMENTAL        INCREMENTAL          INCREMENTAL
PERIODS           BENEFITS            COSTS              BENEFITS                      PERIODS            IENEFITS           COSTS                KNEFITS
1                           0.0             1065.S            -1065.8                  1                           0.0              1065.1             -1065.8
2                           0.0             3052.9            -3052.9                  2                            0.0             3052.9             -3052.9
3                         161.4            11032.7           -10971.3                  3                          161.4            11032.7            -10871.3
4                         279.9             4872.7            -4592.8                  4                         279.9              4872.7             -4592.0
5                        1495.0             3267.1             -1772.1                 5                         1890.9             3267.1             -1386.2
6                        1803.1             1135.5               667.6                 6                        2430.9              1135.5              1295.4
7                        1M13.4              874.5              1038.9                 7                        2863.0               574.5              1988,4
8                       2166.8               953.5              1213.3                 8                        3269.2               953.5              2315.7
9                       2445.4              1211.4              1234.0                 9                        3709.3              1211.4              2497.9 ?
10-13                   2710.2              1107.7              1602.5                 10-13                    4127.7              1107.7              3020.0"
14                      2710.2              1282.8              1427.4                 14                       4127.7              1282.8              2844.9
15                      2710.2              1107.7              1602.5                 15                       4127.7              1107.7              3020.0
16                      2710.2              1293.7             1416.5                  16                       4127.7              1293.7              2834.0
17-22                   2710.2              1107.7              1602.5                 17-22                    4127.7              1107.7              3020.0
23                      2710.2              1293.7              1416.5                 23                       4127.7              12?3.7              2834.0
24                      2710.2              9832.3            -7122.1                  24                       4127.7              9832.3             -5704.6
25-26                   2710.2              6680.2            -3970.0                  25-26                    4127.7              6680.2             -2552.5
27-28                   2710.2              1107.7              1602.5                 27-28                    4127.7              1107.7              3020.0
29                       2710.2             12S3.7              1416.5                 29                       4127.7              1293.7              2834.0
30-33                   2710.2              1107.7              1602.5                 30-33                    4127.7              1107.7              3020.0
34                      2710.2              5049.9            -313t.7                  34                       4127.7             5H49.               -1722.2
35-41                   2710.2              1107.7              1602.5                 35-41                     4127.7             1107.7              3020.0
NPV AS A I                                                                               NPV AS A r
PRESENT         OF PRESENT      INTERNAL                                                PRESENT          OF PRESENT      INTERNAL
VALUE AT oCC   COSTS AT 0CC   RATE OF                                                   VALUE AT OCC   COSTS AT 0CC   RATE OF
OF 10.0X        OF 10.01        RETURN                                                  OF 10.0X         OF 10.0%        RETURN
0
-9595.7        -37.144X      I.W6X                                                      -1737.1          -6.725X      8.891X
1/   For the relevant  chadow prices and country parameters,  see: NIGERIA - Social Cost - Benefit Analysis,  by Mustapha
Rouis, WAL, July 6, 1979, the main conversion factors used are: standard conversion factor: 0.83, capital investment
goods/construction conversion factor: (wighted average) 0.84, electricity conversion factor: 0.85, skilled labour
conversion factor:  0.83,  consumption conversion factor:  0.72,  marginal productivity of capital 10%.
Note: Details of the cost/benefit streams are provided in the Project File.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 3
II. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
1. Sensitivity analysis with respect to variations in demand growth yielded
the following results:
No. of years up until
use of full capacity              Existing Tariffs    Future Tariffs
Base Case            5 years                           2.0%                 8.9%
=17)*
Variation A          4 years                           2.1%                  9.1%
(g - 22%)
Variation B          3 years                           2.2Z                  9.4Z
gg - 30%)
Variation C          6 years                           1.9X                  8.8%
(g - 14%)
Variation D          7 years                           1.8X                  8.5%
(g - 12%)
Variation E          8 years                           1.8%                  8.5%
(g = 10%)
Variation F          9 years                           1.6%                  8.2%
(X - 9%)
Variation G         10 years                           1.5Z                  S.1Z
(g- 8%)
*  g      average annual growth rate.
2.  The graph on page 3 demonstrates the sensitivty of the project IERR with
regards to various cost/demand variations.
3.  The project's sensitivity towards changes in the tariff increase schedules
is illustrated below:
-------------- I --------------                III          IV            V
1986 Tariffs Ccpomund Effect  1986 Tariffs
in nominal  of inflation   in constant
Assumption (nominal increases)    terms     at 15% p.a    1980 prices    I4X
1982  1983  1984  1985  1986   (1980 - 1.00) (1980 - 1.00)  (1980 = 1.00)
Base Case    50%'  25%   25%   25%   25%       3.66    )                 1.58         8.9Z
A            25%   25Z   25%   25%   25%       3.05    )    2.31         1.32         6.2%
B            50    -    25%    -    251        2.34    )                 1.01   .     2.1S



- 63 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 3 of 3
Sensitivity Analysis for Base Case with Future Tariffs (IERR = 8.9%)
Changes in Cost/Benefit Stream Assumptions (Vertical Axis, in %)
and Resulting Variations in the IERR  (Horizontal Axis, in %)
% (+) Changes in Assumptions
B   C              D           E
20                                              G
A
15
F
13)
10
IERR: Base Case
*5% ~    ~        4
%Changes in IERR                                                                         %Changes in IERR
-3              -2              -1                                  1                2                 3
,-(6)1 
(8)
F   - 1 0 ' -
-15
G
-20L      E         0D                              B      A
%      Changes in Assumptions
A  =  All Cost                           F  =  Change in Average Annual Growth Rate
B  =  Capital Cost                               of Demand up until Full Capacity is
C  =  Foreign Exchange                           reached. Numbers in ( ) indicate
D  =  O & M Cost                                number of years up until arrival at
E  =  Electricity                               the full caPacity (base case = 5 years).
G = All Benefits
World Bank - 21963



ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
BOR  OiDRETR
GENFRAL MANAGER
|PROJECT MANAGER   -
HEAD OF PERFORMANCE|___
EVALUATION & AUDIT                                                                                                                       DEPUTY
PUBLIC RELATION
OFFICER
7   ___                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_1_                                                   ZONE M ANAGER
FINANCIAL                       HiEAD OF ENGINEERING
CONTROLLER                             S                                SECRET                                                                     7 
CHIEF              ASSETS          COMMERCAL                           C                   PADMIN                         LEGAL  l
A CCOUNTANTMANACER                       MANAGER                               l                                 OFFICER       OFFICER
ANNUAL ACCOUNTS     -STORES RECORDS     CONSUMER RECORDS                   -TRAINING           -ESTABLISHMENT   OFFICE       -WAYLEAVES                            l
ANNUAL ESTIMATES    -PHYSICAL STOCK     METER READING                       SCHOOL              CONTROL         ADMIN         & EASEMENT
BUDGETARY CONTROL    CONTROL            BILLING                            -MANPOWER           -RECRUITMENT     GENERAL      -CONVEYANCES
-COSTING            -ASSET REGISTERS    COLLECTIONS                         PLANNING          -TERMINATION      SERVICES    -CONTRACTS                  ZONE ADMINF      ZONE
PAYROLL             -REPAIR & MAIN-    DEBT RECOVERY/                      -TRAINING           -CONDITIONS      MINUTES      -RENT, ETC.                EACCOUNT       ENGINEER
CREDITORS CONTROL    TENANCE            RECEIVABLES                         PROGRAMS           OF SERVICE       OF MEETINGS   AGREEMENTS
FINANCIAL            . HEAD OFFICES     CONTROL                            -EXTERNAL           -PENSIONS
PLANNING             * OFFICE MACHINERY NEW CONNECTIONS                     TRAINING
ACCOUNTING          -SECURITY OF                                            LIAISON
MANUAL               ALL ASSETS
CHIEF ENGINFER                            CHIEF ENGINEER                               CHIEF ENGINEER
(RESEARCH & PLANNING)                        (DEVELOPMENT)                                 (OPERATIONS)
HYDROGEOLOGY                              DETAILED DESIGN                               WATER PRODUCTION CONTROL
SURVEYS/INVESTIGATIONS                   hTENDERS/BID PROCESSING                       TREATMENT SCHEDULING
-RESEARCH                                -EXECUTION OF NEW WORKS                       CONTROL OF LABORATORIES
TECHNICAI DATA RECORDING                -WORKSHOPS CONTROL/SERVICING FOR              DISTRIBUTION CONTROL
PLANNING & OUTLINE DESIGN                  * VEHICLES & MOBILE PLANT                   CONSUMER SERVICES
* OTHER PLANT & EQUIPMENT                   REPAIRS & MAINTENANCE OF
ALL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS



- 65 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 4
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Water Supply--Training Component
The training program to be designed and implemented under the
project consists of the following elements:
(1) The ASWC will appoint a Chief Training Officer (CTO) who would be
directly responsible to either the General Manager or the Secretary.
The person appointed would immediately attend an overseas course for
Training Specialists for approximately three months. The CTO will
be responsible for the design and implementation of the training
program outlined below.
(2) The CTO would be assisted by, and receive on-the-job training from,
a consultant or team of consultants specializing in training and
with a good understanding of the water supply sector. Twenty-four
man-months of consultant services would be provided by a person or
firm, and under terms of reference, that are acceptable to the Bank.
(3) The CTO, with the assistance of the training consultants, would
review the existing manpower of 1300 personnel, currently grouped
into approximately 100 occupational categories, in order to obtain
a more uniform structure for manpower utilization, forecasting and
the planning of training activities. They would make a detailed
assessment of technical, financial and administrative sub-professional
staff to determine their training needs based upon a comparison be-
tween job requirements and observed levels of competence. An annual
training plan and budget would be prepared based on manpower and
training need forecasts produced by Zonal and Department heads.
(4) The CTO and the consultants would design and conduct seminars for
supervisors on training and manpower planning principles of manage
ment and work planning.
(5) The strength of the training school staff would be increased from
three to five by the appointment of two extra instructors from the
Higher/Senior Superintendent grades. The two new instructors and
the existing Higher Works Superintendent (Training) will attend an
overseas instructor training programme in a water sector training
organization. Four or more part time instructors would be appointed
to cover specialist areas i.e. Accounts, Administration, Stores
and Plant/Equipment Maintenance, as and when training programmes
in their areas are arranged. The four or more who are selected,
plus the two existing full time instructors, will need to attend a
tailor-made in-house program in instruction techniques. This can
be conducted by the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) of Nigeria or
similar type of local organization.
(6) The training staff, after their overseas training, would produce a
series of training modules designed to develop the appropriate
skills, knowledge and attitudes required by sub-professional staff.



- 66 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 4
The design of the modules should include training aids, instruction
plans and programs, and a module for the induction of new entrants.
(7)   The existing training school will be upgraded to allow a minimum
of 1200 man-weeks of training per annum (eventually it should be
capable of nearly double this figure). The existing building will
be converted and expanded to contain three classrooms, an office,
a store, and canteen facilities. Two workshops, a hard standing
area for practical work and equipment demonstration, and an accom-
modation facility for 40 trainees will be constructed. Training and
demonstration equipment will be designed and developed by the staff
of the training unit after their overseas training. A mini-bus for
the exclusive use of the school for transporting trainees on field
visits will be acquired.
(8) The successful Assistant Works Superintendent (AWS) one year program
of the Kaduna State Water Board is to be revised under the Bank-
financed Kaduna Water Supply Project. The revised program would be
introduced into the ASWC school to provide, on a limited scale, a
much needed program for senior sub-professional staff of the Corpora-
tion and other Water Authorities in the Eastern region of Nigeria.
Six man-months of training consultants services would be required
for the adaptation and introduction of this program, which would
take place toward the end of the project period.
(9) For the staff of the Onitsha Zone, an intensive course will be
provided at the Training School and/or at a suitable venue in the
Zone, for the categories of Filtration Attendant, Plumber S.S.L.
and Pumper/Plant Operator and those Plumbers and Plant Operators
who have not received off-the-job training. Two operational
personnel suitable for promotion to Assistant Works Superintendent
(AWS) will be selected to attend the Kaduna AWS program.
(10) Provision for training abroad by (a) fellowships for water supply
graduates and other ASWC staff at training institutions, and
(b) attachments to overseas water sector utilities.
These proposals were discussed and agreed with the ASWC during the appraisal
of the project and confirmed at negotiations.



ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ASWC TRAINING COMPONENT - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
2IMONTHLYPERIODe. 1981                         1982               1983                1984
Chief Training Officer
(Overseas Course)__
Training Consultant for 24 man-months                                        .
3 Superintendents Instructor
Training Overseas 6 man-months
Part-time Instructor Training v
Training Consultant for Kaduna
Programme
Civil Work on Training School
and Training Equipment
Attachments/Fellowships Overseas
_                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-gN
oQ
tt  t";



- 68 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 4 Ot 4
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Training Component - Cost Estimates
Foreign        Local          Total
Item                                Costs          Costs           Costs
000O O  N                   -----------
(a)  Training Consultants: remuneration
for 24 man-months (all in costs)
- Manpower utilization and performance
assessment
- Design of training manuals, pro-
grammes and facilities for sub-
professional staff
- Formulation and scheduling of
overall training plan for all staff
- Briefing seminars for Managers and
Supervisors
- Assisting Chief Training Officer with
role development                                120                            120
(b)  Consultants' local support/services/
transport costs                                                   10              10
(c)  Chief Training Officer
Training specialist programme in an
overseas water sector training organi-
zation: 3 man-months                                 8                             8
(d)  3 Higher/Senior Superintendents
Instructor training and skill develop-
ment programme in an overseas water
sector trainong organization (3 x 6 man-
months) 18 man-months                               30             -              30
(e)  Training Consultants: remuneration for
introduction of Kaduna A.W.S. revised
programme.
6 man-months split into 3 x 2 man-months
periods (all in costs)                              30             -              30
(f)  Consultants'local support/services/
transport costs                                    -              4                4
(g)  Training of part-time instructors by
Industrial Training Fund (Nigeria) or
similar local organization  (2 man-weeks)    -                     2               2
(h)  Attachments/Fellowship  to overseas water
sector/utilities education and training
institutions:fees and travel per diem             120              -             120
(i)  Cost of Civil work for extension/upgrading
of training school
a. Conversion of existing building into
- 3 classrooms(total area 278 02)
- Office, store and canteen facilities
(total area 167m)                            28            42               70
b. Construction of 2 workshops (total area
60Dm2)and Hard standing area(333m2)    110                  165             275
c. Construction of an accommodation
facility for 40 trainees (total area
800s 2)                                       134           201             335
(j)  Training and demonstration equipment                25            12               37
(k)  Printed and consumable training materials            1             3                4
(1)  Provision of mini-bus for transporting
trainees                                           15              -              15
(m)  Nominal cost for local training and
retraining of semi-specialized and
non-specialized staff                               -             10              10
e20           449            1069
Physical Contingencies            43            32              75
Price Contingencies              157            99             256
820           580            1400
April 1, 1980



ONITSHA LOCAL GOVERNMENT
ORGANISATION CHART
|COUNCIL|
FINAlNCE & GENERA         HEATH & AGRICULTUR                  EDUCATION                         WORKS
P URPOSES CONNITTEE            COMMITTEE                       COMMITTEE .COMMITTEE
TRAR              MAET          OFFICER     SANITATION       SECRETARY        SUPERINTENDENT        ENGINEER
TREASURER  SUPT. OF HEALTH      DEPTADMI-NISTRATION             OF SCHOOLS           (OK   N
NANACE~~                           TOWN PLANNING)~~



ONITSHA LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Recommended Organization for Solid Waste Management
| SANITATION     m
|DEPARTMENT MANAGERI
LREFTJSE COLLECTION |                WORKSHOP      ||NIGHT SOIL COLLECTION:]                               DISPOSAL      l
I  SuDei   Clerksn   IForuem ien            Inentory          In_Supectrsint e rksn                                  Cluprntn erks
Inspecors   ITypists           Foemn         lerks Typistus                         Typists           nsITyis
|Foremen_                      _:s                                     Foremen                                n 
Drivers                                                               DiesEquipment
Collectors                                                           Collectors                       Operators
Sweepers                                                                                             Laborers



- 71 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 1 of 2
PROPOSED MONITORING INDICATORS
A series of indicators for monitoring project implementation,
operating and financial performance and developments pertaining to the project
were discussed and agreed during negotiations and will be included, inter
alia, in the requirements for regular reporting to the Bank (para. 5.33). The
principal criteria agreed are as follows:
A. Anambra State Water Corporation
I. Project Area Development (Annually)
(i) Total Population of Onitsha; and
(ii) Population served by:
a) Private connections; and
b) Standpipes.
II. Project Area Operating Statistics (Monthly)
(i) Volume of water produced from various sources and total;
(ii) Volume of water billed by customer category (domestic metered,
standpipe, industrial/commercial and institutional) and total;
(iii) % unaccounted for water;
(iv) % estimated/measured physical losses (leakage); and
(v) New distribution pipes laid (Kms).
III. Project Area Commercial Indicators (Monthly)
(i) Collection as % of billing by consumer category and total;
(ii)  Number of service connections by consumer category and total;
and
(iii) Number of standpipes.
IV. Financial Indicators (Annually)
(i) Audited balance sheet-ASWC;
(ii) Audited income statement-ASWC total and Onitsha Zone.
(iii) Audited funds flow statement-ASWC total and Onitsha Zone.
(iv) Projected funds flow statement for subsequent three years; and



- 72 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 2 of 2
(v) Current schedule of water charges.
V. Project Implementation (Quarterly)
(i) Revised project construction schedule;
(ii) Revised project cost estimates;
(iii) Revised construction schedule Emergency Program; and
(iv) Status of training program.
VI. General (Quarterly)
(i) Number of employees by category (management, professional,
technician, labourer and "daily paid"); and
(ii) Average daily flows in the Nkisi and Ekulu Rivers at
the water obstraction intakes.
B. Onitsha Local Government
I. Project Operating Data (Monthly)
(i) Volume of Refuse Collected;
(ii) Volume of Land fill layering material used;
(iii)  Volume of night soil collected:
(iv) No. and percentage of total houses served (monthly)
(a) for refuse collection by OLG; and
(b) for night soil collection by OLG.
(v) Length of drainage channels (Kms); and
(vi) Length of drainage channels inspected (Kms).
II. Financial Indicators
(i) Audited Annual Accounts for OLG (Annually)
(ii) Collection as % of Billing for (a) Market Fees (b) Property
Tax and (c) Community Tax (Monthly)
(iii)  Projected Funds Flow for OLG and separately for Sanitation
Dept. (Annually).



- 73 -
ANNEX 6.1
ANAMBRA STATE WATER CORPORATION
ONITSHA ZONE
Data Sources and Main Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1.   Data Sources
(i) Analysis of ASWC data and records for the three years FY77-79
by the ASWC engineering consultants who prepared the project
feasibility study financed through the PPF;
(ii) Assets register data (location, description, normal life,
remaining useful life, renewal cost, present worth and annual
depreciation) prepared in November 1979 by ASWC consultants
financed through the PPF;
(iii) Operations and Maintenance Budget data prepared in November
1979 by water supply operations specialists financed through
the PPF;
(iv) Ad hoc data produced by ASWC for FY80 budget and actual
performance;
(v) Crash programme and other project related expenditure.
2.   Main Assumptions
(i) IBRD finance based on 5 years grace and 15 years loan repayment.
Interest at 9.6% p.a. ANSG to carry Debt Service on IBRD loan
during grace period for all components.
(ii) Local inflation at 15% per annum.
Personnel emoluments at 10% per annum.
Chemicals at 10% (FY79) reducing to 7% perannum for FY 1982
onwards.
(iii) Weighted average of foreign and local costs inflation reflected
in rate of 11.6% p.a. used to revalue assets for FY81 onwards.
(iv) Average depreciation rate of 4.7% indicates weighted average
21 years life for project components.
(v) Tariff increases have been incorporated as follows:
effective 1 January 1982 (FY82) - 50%
effective 1 January 1983 and four consecutive years
(FY83 - FY86) - 25% per annum.



A.S.W.C. - ONITSHA ZONE
SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT (NOOO)
ITEM         /  FY    1980(12)   1980(9)   1981        1982      1983        1984       1985       1986        1987       1988
SOURCES
1.  Net Income Before Interest             -       (472)    (859)  (1,352)  (1,403)       (2,908)    (2,091)          4       (376)      (749)
2.  Depreciation                           -        571    1,181    1,981    3,035         5,090      6,684      8,196      9,827    11,617
3.    Internal Cash Genef?tion             -         99       322       629    1,632       2,182      4,593      8,200       9,451    10,868
Less: Debt Service -
4.         - Principal                     -          -       200       200       200         200        200        860      1,720      1,720
5.         -  Interest                     -          -        46        36        26          16          7      1,460      2,350      2,190
6.  Total Debt Service                     -          -       246       236      226          216        207      2,320     4,070       3,910
7.    Net Internal Cash Generation         -         99        76       393    1,406       1,966      4,386      5,880      5,381       6,958
Borrowings:
8.  Onitsha Local Government           1,000          -         -         -         -           -          -          -          -          -
9.  Proposed IBRD Loan                     -          -       190    5,460   11,080        5,100      2,570       1,400          -          -
10.    Total Borrowings                 1,000          -       190    5,460   11,080        5,100       2,570      1,400          -          -
11.  Government Contributions
- Project Local Costs                  -          -    1,100    6,120    7,160         1,300        870        510           -
12.  Government Contributions
- Crash Programme                      -        500         -        -         -           -          -           -          -
13.    Total Sources                    1,000        599    1,366   11,973   19,646         8,366       7,826      7,790      5,381      6,958
APPLICATIONS
Investments
14.  Proposed IBRD Water Component          -          -    1,520   13,630   22,630         8,700      5,220       2,200          -
15.  Deduct:  ASWC HQ, etc.                 -          -       230    2,050    3,390        1,300         780        290          -
16.  IBRD Project (Onitsha Only)            -          -    1,290   11,580   19,240         7,400      4,440       1,910          -
17.  Crash Programme                      750        750         -         -         -           -          -          -          -          -
18.  Other (2nd Stage)                      -          -         -         -         -           -     1.000       4.500      6.500      4.500
19.    Total Investment                   750        750    1,290   11,580   19,240         7,400      5,440       4,500      6,500      5,500
20.  Working Capital Increase
(Decrease)                        250       (151)       76       393       406         966      2,386      1.380    (1.119)    1.458
21.    Total Applications               1,000        599    1,366   11,973   19,646         8,366      7,826       7,790      5,381      6,958
1/  Debt Service on IBRD loan to be met by ANSG during grace period.
Revised: March 1981



ASWC - ONITSHA ZONE
FORECAST INCOME STATEMENTS (NOOO)
ITEM    /    FY              1980(12)  1980(9)    1981        1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
REVENUES
1.  Water Sales                       500        600      1,080      1,617      2,039      2,464      2,974      3,569      4,140      4,787
2.  Connection Fees                     50        50        112        174        226        284        351        375        400        440
3.  Meter Service Charges               -          -         26         91        122        153        197        253        308        369
4.  Future Tariff Increases              -         -          -        809      1,794      3,302      5,740      9,488    11,012    12,733
5.  Total Internal Sources            550        650      1,218      2,691      4,181      6,203      9,262    13,685    15,860    18,329
6.  Government-Ops. Rehabilitation    -          100        400        500        200          -          -          -          -          -
7.  Government-Operating Deficit    246          754      1,121        204          -          -          -          -          -          -
8.  Total All Sources                  796     1,504      2,739      3,395      4,381      6,203      9,262    13,685    15,860    18,329
COSTS
1-n
9.  Personnel                         312        263        386        424        467        612        673        741        815        896
10.  Energy                             125       416        637        733        843      1,317      1,582      1,922      2,317      2,770
11.  Chemicals                           24        85        125        134        144        335        399        475        555        644
12.  Repairs                             70       240        368        424        487        817        940      1,081      1,243      1,429
13.  Ops. System Rehabilitation           -       100        400        500        200          -          -          -          -          -
14.  Total Direct Costs                 531     1,104      1,916      2,215      2,141      3,081      3,594      4,219      4,930      5,739
15.  Other (Inc. HQ Expenses)          265        301        455        515        582        924      1,078      1,266      1,479      1,722
16.  Depreciation                                 571      1,181      1.981      3.035      5.090      6,684      8,196      9,827    11,617
17.  Total All Costs                    796     1,976      3,552      4,711      5,758      9,095    11,346    13,681    16,236    19,078
18.  Income Before Interest               -      (472)      (813)   (1,316)   (1,377)   (2,892)   (2,084)             4       (376)      (749)
19.  Interest                             -         -         46         36         26         16          7      1,460      2,350      2,190
20.  Net Income (Deficit)                 -      (472)      (859)   (1,352)   (1,403)   (2,908)   (2,091)   (1,456)   (2,726)   (2,939)
Revised: March 1981



A.S.W.C. - ONITSHA ZONE
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS (NOOO)
ITEM   /   FY        1980(12) 1980(9)       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987        1988
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
1.  Gross                              8,155   10,364    11,566    15,447    23,148    50,553    66,127    77,879    88,692    103,310
2.  Depreciation                      4,790    5,361       6,582      8,523    11,558    16,648    23,332    31,528    41,355           52,972
3.    Net Assets in Operation          3,365    5,003      4,984      6,924    11,590    33,905    42,795    46,351    47,337           50,338
4.  Work in Progress                     604         -     1,290    10,330    23,660        6,340      2,070      4,400      9,120      10,290
5.    Total Fixed Assets               3,969    5,003      6,274    17,254    35,250    40,245    44,865    50,751    56,457            60,628
Current Assets
6.  Cash                                 250      149        225        458        714      1,040      3,076      4,246      2,907       4,145
7.  Accounts Receivable                  300      250        240        360        550        830      1,100      1,300      1,500       1,650
8.  Stores                               100       120       150        220        290        520        670        770        880       1,000
9.    Total Current Assets               650       519       615      1,038      1,554      2,400      4,846      6,316      5,287       6,795
10.  Total Assets                       4,619    5,522      6,889    18,292    36,804    42,645    49,711    57,067    61,744            67,423
LIABILITIES
Equity
1.  Government Contribution              688    1,188      2,288      8,408    15,568    16,868    17,738    18,248    18,248           18,248
2.  Accumulated Surplus (Deficit)          -         -      (472)   (1,331)   (2,683)   (4,086)   (6,994)    (9,085)  (10,541)    (13,267)
3.  Current Year Surplus (Deficit)         -      (472)     (859)   (1,352)   (1,403)   (2,908)   (2,091)    (1,456)   (2,726)          (2,939)
4.  Revaluation Reserve                2,731    3,586      4,702      6,047      7,812    10,291    16,138    23,810    32,843          43,131
5.    Total Equity                     3,419    4,302      5,659    11,772    19,294    20,165    24,791    31,517    37,824            45,173
Long Term Loans
6.  Foreign - IBRD                         -         -       190      5,650    16,730    21,830    23,540    23,220    21,500           19,780
7.  Local - Onitsha L.G.              1,000       800        600        400        200          -          -          -          -           -
8.    Total Loans                      1,000       800       790      6,050    16,930    21,830    23,540    23,220    21,500           19,780
Current Liabilities
9.  Accounts Payable                     200       220       240        270        380        450        520        610        700         750
10.  Short term maturities                  -       200       200        200        200        200        860      1,720      1,720       1,720
11.    Total Current Liabilities          200       420       440        470        580        650      1,380      2,330      2,420       2,470
12.  Total Liabilities                 4,619    5,522       6,889    18,292    36,804    42,645    49,711    57,067    61,744            67,423
Revised: March 1981



- 77 -                            ANNEX 6.5
ONITSHA LOCAL GOVERNMENT APPROVED ESTIMATES
FY79, AND FY80 (12)
SUMMARY STATEMENT
Revised
Vote                                                  Estimates         Estimates
Head                 Details                            FY79             FY80(12)
N                  N
REVENUES
I        Rates (Property, Community)                  623,780          946,290
II        Water Rate Commission                         13,000           15,020
III        Fees (Inc. Markets, Parking)               2,584,040        2,885,840
IV        General (Inc. Rents)                          32,220           59,620
V        Economic Projects (Sales of Products)            360            3,760
Total Internal Revenues               N3,253,900       N3,910,530
VI        Grants                                     4,603,450        4,117,270
VII        Loans                                     _                _
Grand Total Revenues                  N7,857,350       N8,027,800
EXPENDITURE - RECURRENT
I        Administration, Market and Motor
Park Management                           590,150          927,090
II        Finance (Treasury) Dept.                     181,040          251,310
III        Works Department                             417,030          566,110
IV        Health and Social Welfare Dept.              301,560          429,980
V        Education Department                       3,148,370        3,754,010
VI        Agriculture and Animal Health
Extension Services Department              58,160          102,280
Total Recurrent Expenditure           N4,696,310       N6,030,780
EXPENDITURE - CAPITAL
I        Administration, Market and Motor
Park Dept.                                200,020        1,112,190
II        Finance (Treasury) Dept.                       5,000            2,000
III        Health & Social Welfare Dept.                166,030          310,010
IV        Education Department                         406,030          610,020
V        Works Department                           1,453,530       1,769,010
VI        Agriculture & Natural Resources Dept.         56,000          145,000
Total Capital Expenditure             N2,286,610       N3,948,230
Grand Total Expenditure               N61982,920       N9.979O010
Revenue Surplus                         N872,430
Excess of Expenditure Over Revenues
to be met from Balances                             N1,951,210



- 78 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
ANAMBRA STATE
Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Operations and Management Improvement Plan with ASWC
As part of project execution, ASWC will undertake the following
measures to improve its operations and management:
1.   Management
(i)  Implement organizational changes in ASWC Headquarter and in the
Zones with effect from July 1, 1982 to improve decentralization
of functions and to foster more effective and efficient service to
ASWCGs consumers. Such changes shall be based on the report
(November 1979) of TCE as are agreed between ASWC and the Bank
(para 5.05); and
(ii) Implement improved management information, control systems and
reporting procedures with effect from April 1, 1982, as may
be agreed between ASWC and the Bank and based on the report
(February 1980) of Coopers and Lybrands (para. 5.12).
2.   Operations - Physical
(i)  Follow a policy of providing metered connections to large domestic
consumers of Enugu and Onitsha at economic costs and in case of non
affordability of private connection to low income groups, agree to
consider installation of yard tap and/or standpipe connections
(para. 4.11 and 4.13);
(ii) Rehabilitate broken standpipes and install about 260 additional ones
in Onitsha (para. 4.11);
(iii)  Reduce the unaccounted for water in Onitsha to 22.5% by 1985
(para. 2.13); and
(iv) Complete the Rehabilitation program requirements by December 31,
1983 (para. 5.10).
3.   Operations - Financial
(i) Introduce improved financial management and accounting systems
including billing and collection (para. 5.13 and 5.14) with effect
from January 1, 1982;



- 79 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Prepare and maintain asset registers (para. 5.15); and
(iii) Undertake a tariff study by December 31, 1981 (para. 4.08);
4.   Others
(i) Undertake a review of job classifications and salaries and
prepare personnel statute before December 31, 1981 (para. 5.07);
and
(ii)  Periodically report to the Bank on ASWC's operational and
managerial activities according to criteria commonly agreed
in annex 5.5 (para. 5.33).



- 80 -
ANNEX 7.2
Page 1 of 3
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
1.   Technical Reports
1.1  Feasibility study of the Greater Onitsha Water Supply Scheme by
Tahal Consultants, Nigeria, Nov. 1979.
1.2  Preliminary design for sewerage, storm water drainage and flood
control systems for Onitsha, ENPLAN-GKW, Undated.
1.3  Onitsha Solid Waste Management Component - Report of Jan. 30,. 1980,
by Sandra J. Cointreau.
1.4  Health Education Component Report of Jan. 3, 1980, by Susan Leone.
1.5  Training Component Report, by John Densham, Industrial Training
Service.
1.6  Financial Regulations and Accounting System Recommendations - Report
of Financial Consultants, Coopers and Lybrand.
1.7  ASWC:  An Assessment of Operations and Maintenance Needs - Report
by R. Watson and D. Sims of Severn - Trent Water Authority.
1.8  Urban Water Supply Sector Investment Planning Report - by
Tahal Consultants December 1979.
1.9 ASWC:  Registration and Monetary Evaluation of Fixed Assets -
Report by Tahal Consultants December 1979.
1.10 Design and Preparation of Tender Documents for the Greater Onitsha
Water Supply Scheme: Contract between ASWC and Tahal Consulting
Engineers - November 1980.
1.11 Surface Water Drainage: Interim Report by ENPLAN/GKW - November
1979.
1.12 ASWC Review of Water Treatment Processes at Onitsha and Enugu -
Report of Renato Pinheiro - December 1979.
2.   Legislation and Official Memoranda
2.1  Excerpts from 1975/1976:  ANSG, Ministry of Economic Development and
Finance, Onitsha Household Survey.
2.2  Local Government Accounting:  Financial Memoranda Volume issued
under Anambra State Edict No. 9 of 1979.
2.3  Anambra State Government:  Anambra State Water Corporation Edict
No. 16 of 1978.



- 81 -
ANNEX 7.2
Page 2 of 3
2.4 Onitsha Local Government: Standing Orders - March 25, 1977.
2.5  ANSG:  Local Government Edict No. 9 of 1976.
2.6  ANSG:  Onitsha Local Government Establishment Instrument 1977.
2.7  ANSG:  Local Government (Amendment) Edict No. 1 of 1977.
2.8  ANSG:  Official Gazette No. 10 Vol. 4 - April 5, 1979 containing:
(i) OLG (Miotor Park) Byelaws 1978;
(ii) OLG (Obstructions and Nuisances) Byelaws 1978.
2.9  ANSG:  Control of Rents Edict No. 4 of 1973.
2.10  ANSG:  Control of Rents Edict No. 3 of 1977.
2.11  ANSG:  The Land Use Edict No. 2 of 1979.
2.12  Federal Republic of Nigeria Official Gazette No. 14, Vol. 65
containing - Land Use Decreee No. 6 of 1978.
2.13  "Understanding the Land Use Decree" ASG publication.
3.   Budgets
3.1 ASWC - Recurrent Budget FY80 (12).
3.2  ASWC - Recurrent Budget FY80 (9) Submission to Govt.
3.3  ASWC - Capital Budget FY80 (9) Submission to Govt.
3.4  ASWC - Capital Budget FY80 (9) Government Budget Allocations.
3.5  Onitsha Local Government:  Estimates 1979/80.
4.   Staff Papers
4.1 Population growth assumptions (Onitsha).
4.2 Detailed calculations - Consumption forecasts.
4.3  Detailed calculations (Onitsha Water Supply).
a.   Economic Characteristics (IERR, NPV)
b.   Average Incremental Cost (AIC).
4.4 Revenue projections - background papers.
4.5 Aide-memoire - Enugu, Dec. 1979.



- 82 -
ANNEX 7.2
Page 3 of 3
5.   Terms of Reference
5.1 Sanitation Department Manager
5.2 3 Technical Assistance personnel for OLG Sanitation Department
5.3 Project Unit



NIGERIA
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Onitsha  Urban Poverty Areas and  Sanitation Component
B E  N  D  E L   t   Q   l l   !    S  t  X      X              Construction / Rehob Jltor on of MaRn D,M iD s
S T A  T E  ,Ar .,        p \       XQ                              f -, Rf us  =nd.d:tslCllr
Aoovt b    Apr.propi.00 V.h,cIe8
'O8Rot  Od N ght8,71880
M.A.ker   -~od  I,00Iloo    ofRblhc Too8   F., ht 8
U!/\/, Ob.n POo..8y Ar-os
G R A/C  / \ = Other R==dt
AMFR                                      (-E-0>  0g/ 10 -0d,,p.801008
i::00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000
(T)MOYK
AL'sT~~M5TRAL
AREAO
c/ ' z885< -;--S; r8000eso= -
tT|                 _Ur; .zsv  {s  uJceic ov   ;   rtatott 011
0800    V1   0810 00  o00 






IBRD 15072
_ARIAN-A ,,LESE 198
NIGERIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                              AL    IE
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT  7                                                                                        ;
Onitsha Water Supply Component                                                                   EA'XS              UL           <1(
S TA TE  )     /                                         I                                                                                                                                                                                    A\        I)     r    HF            EO   E
_~~~~~~~I~                                                                                                                                                                                                                              500   AT <   G \2 _    EE5o   00 10  E0_O        1 
BEINDEL    /                                                  IT 
/       -                                                                                                                                                                                           AS[A- A2 40RON 000  O IKE
STATER /E''SP Io;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L \    S _ Roa
Il!<.  ---X!         Ad,CSA /Gobeservod0ndcpandent/rbyboroho/@oNDA
0 D 0~~~~~~'
I                                                                                                                           METERS~~~~~~~~~ 7 IOf-  ~  .,T-
00
Iv.lw,gIIn Of SeL-ndory -d4 Te,t,ory TMon
--  .  I    /                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Pb ,ur  Zone D.mORCtiO- LiNe
~~~~~~                                       I~~~~~~~~ DI ,, I`S "E ZONE                   7                                                                 EXISTING
-                                                                       rReCVCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                            Dw,bi y9rr ,r .
OKPOKO/                                                                                                                                                                    0      REIAOSSle,PIOpMLsRm
-'                                                                                       -     -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~CrOSh Prog-on, 1980
>,                                          ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~0  B rnhole,, USde1 C-t-t-CIO
/21W  '50. GIllS 2/TIE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~~A                                                                               TEo,.te.tORI Pnt
/ \~ ~ ~ ~~~O                                                                                                                                                                                                      RoadE






I B R 0 13973R
N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            K,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~q nIGIER                                                  -                                                 ADW$
V                                                                          A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6Lno,A 
I<1GER~~~~~~~                                   ~ SOKOTO     '               .'
S 0JLr 2 7                     NI                           KAN/vG~ ,-_->  '                               j,<A'
MAIDUGURi
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/  
KA  KAUNA                    'A-/A ERO
2~~~~,  ,j                       ,4                            Kin''     R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUCHI    >  
0"K
A      /                  2'       ~~~~~~~~~MINNA                                                                         A
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
TCATL OR             A   TIP
I   /                             'I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GO0  N73-'0  I AN
(            arc~~~~A  WA  R A                         '6E N                                      u'->V                                             
157/~~~~4
I ,o                                   2"' ~~~~~~~~~            , ~ANAMfiRAWATER SUPPtAND
*'   Yww, SAgAN K    <' N          P  N   UP                   )                                        SANITATION  ~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
17 ABEELKK     /AKURER                                                 Ea       N  U                                                                     .FvlomtAtorte
p  c..-                 ,,/                             ___                                                 -    Basin ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ai  sy ondre
~~   .!  .7-'?      '~           I,           ,ANAAIB  A               ,A    Vt> /;                                                   2   HAW]A -JAM ARE
LAGOS            ?~~~~~i  4/BENIN CITEYNG'                                                                                              AECA
LAqos  ~ ~ ~ ~~j             .                                                 .'4   UPPER" BEN(Jt
Gulf of Guinea                        'Y' N                        ' F3
2         ENOPI  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                     ?~~~~~~~~~  ANtAWARA-VMO
I   9   OGJ'SAN
I.MALI                                                                              Rt                           AMtRQQ                                      B 0    NIN BR
NIG6ER                                                C                                                                                               t, I.,11 *Sg1 DELTA
I                                 (   7                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CALIABA,E
>.- 't IERIA   E'       bo..0b#                   ,                                   IPi                                        U       ,-.    tt Boun'is
~~~~~~~tUj< fIr~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o7                                                                  0'8aJ~6
5.5  r  ,1  \.. tZ7.~~~~Gu.eeasooss.  /  I ~~~~          U                          I                                              -. - trternoticonat BGIJSdIISIGS u   4~
~~~~~~~      n\    fOUR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f7 7                                                           1



