Document of                  FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3090-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR THE
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
June 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
US$1 = NO.55
Nl = US$1.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric (m) ton = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)   = 2.47 acres
1 acre           = 0.405 hectares
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ANSG        -  Anambra State Government
ASWC        - Anambra State Water Corporation
LG          -  Local Government
OLG         -  Onitsha Local Government
PPF         -  Project Preparation Facility
WHO/Bank CP - World Health Organization/Bank Cooperative Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiary:           Anambra State of Nigeria.
Amount:                US$67.0 million.
Terms:                 Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:       The Federal Government would onlend the full amount of
the loan to Anambra State, which in turn would onlend
US$55.2 million to the Anambra State Water Corporation
(ASWC) and US$3.0 million to the Onitsha Local Govern-
ment, all on the same terms as the Bank loan. ASWC
would carry the foreign exchange risk on US$55.2 million
and the State Government on the balance.
Project Description:  The proposed project would provide a comprehensive
package of improved water supply and sanitation services
to Onitsha, a major urban center in Anambra State,
including works and equipment, health education an3-
studies, as well as technical assistance for financial,
management, and operational improvements. Because
several agencies would be involved in project imple-
mentation, the project would require close cooperation
among those agencies. This should be facilitated by the
establishment of a Project Steering Committee. There
would also be a certain risk in the ability of ASWC to
attract and retain competent management, but this should
be reduced by the promulgation of new job classifications
and salary structures proposed under the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
------ US$ Millions--------
Water Supply
Onitsha Water Supply                               21.0       33.5        54.5
Buildings and Communications                        2.9        2.1         5.0
Training and Technical Assistance                   1.3        2.9         4.2
Design, Supervision and Studies                     2.0         5.4         7.4
Urban Infrastructure and Health
Onitsha Drainage and Sanitation                     5.7         5.9       11.6
Design, Supervision, and Studies                   0.3         0.8         1.1
Technical Assistance                                0.2        0.7         0.9
Infrastructure for Okpoko                          1.6         1.3         2.9
Health Education                                   0.6         0.3         0.9
Total Base Costs                             35.6        52.9        88.5
Physical Contingencies                              4.1        4.7         8.8
Price Contingencies                               13.9         9.4        23.3
Total Project Cost (including taxes
and duties of US$4.3 million)                53.6        67.0       120.6
Financing Plan
IBRD                                                -         67.0        67.0
ANSG                                              48.1           -        48.1
ASWC                                                5.5                    5.5
53.6       67.0       120.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                               6.0   20.2   24.4    8.3    7.5    0.6
Cumulative                           6.0   26.2   50.6   58.9   66.4   67.0
Rate of  Return:                    9 percent (for the Onitsha water supply
component)
Staff Appraisal Report:             3036-UNI, dated April 28, 1981.
* Cost figures are rounded.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$67.0 million
to help finance a project for water supply and sanitation in Anambra State
of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum. The Federal Government would
relend the full amount of the loan to Anambra State which in turn would relend
US$55.2 million to the Anambra State Water Corporation and US$3.0 million to
the Onitsha Local Government on the same terms as the Bank loan. The Anambra
State Water Corporation would carry the foreign exchange risk on US$55.2
million and the State Government on the balance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 3232-UNI)
distributed to the Executive Directors was dated April 7, 1981. An economic
report examining the long-term economic prospects and policy options facing
Nigeria is being prepared and will be circulated later this year. Country
data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        The present civilian Government, headed by President Alhaji Shehu
Shagari, assumed office on October 1, 1979, following 13 years of military
rule. The Government's priorities and policies are set out in the recently
issued Outline of the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85). Rural
development, increased food production, education, and low-cost housing are
focal points of the new administration-s program. The desire for decent-
ralization, and the fact that in many states the opposition parties are in
power, constitute a formidable challenge for the Nigerian leadership in
successfully implementing a national development strategy.
Recent Economic Developments
4.        Although oil output rose rapidly in the early 1970s, reaching a peak
of 2.3 million barrels a day (mbd) in 1974, it was only with the quadrupling
of the oil price in 1973-74 that Nigeria's financial situation changed funda-
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Reports
for Bauchi State and Kano Agricultural Development Projects approved by
the Executive Directors on April 30, 1981.



mentally. The dramatic rise in the oil income occurred at a time when Nigeria
ranked among the world's poorest countries and had a predominantly agricultural
economy, with manufacturing accounting for less than 10 percent of GDP.
5.        The Government's first concern, as reflected in the Third National
Development Plan (1975-80), was to use the new wealth to modernize the country.
The four-fold increase in public revenue allowed initiation of a vast investment
program, and generated a growth rate of 7 percent a year. Public investment
was concentrated on developing transport and communication networks, expanding
education, and setting up heavy industry. But the large public expenditures
also caused high rates of inflation in the early years and wastage of resources.
In fact, expenditures rose much faster than income, and within two years
deficits reappeared in both the budget and the balance of payments. These
developments brought the country to the brink of financial crisis in 1978.
6.        With the successive increases in the oil price over the past two
years - from US$14 to US$39 per barrel - Nigeria's financial position has once
again greatly improved. In 1980, export earnings and government revenue are
estimated at about 2-1/2 times the level in 1978. Federal Government expendi-
tures in the budgets of 1980 and 1981 have been allowed to rise roughly in
line with the increase in revenue. The composition of capital expenditures
proposed for 1980 and 1981 reflects the new Government's increasing emphasis
on agriculture, housing, water supply, and road maintenance.
7.        Nigeria-s pattern of economic growth over the past few years has
displayed many of the characteristics associated with the development of other
oil exporting countries. High rates of domestic inflation, combined with an
appreciating value of the naira, meant that domestic costs of production rose
relatively to foreign costs. At the same time, costs in such purely domestic
sectors as construction and services (where supplies could not be augmented
through imports) rose at a more rapid pace than costs in the tradeable sectors.
Consequently, agriculture and manufacturing were placed at a disadvantage
vis-a-vis both foreign produced goods (which became relatively cheaper) and
purely domestic sectors (which became more profitable). In the agricultural
sector, the output of subsistence crops as well as traditional export crops
stagnated. The manufacturing sector too found it difficult to compete with
imports, despite extensive government incentives, and suffered from rising
costs and infrastructure bottlenecks.
Poverty and Basic Needs
8.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 83 million and a per capita
income of about US$670 (1979). Although Nigeria is placed among the middle-
income countries, acute poverty is still widespread. In 1978, an estimated 35
percent of the households in the urban areas and 55 percent in the rural areas
were unable to meet the minimum expenditure required for food and other
necessities of life. A substantial portion--20 percent of all households in
urban areas and 40 percent in rural areas--did not have incomes adequate to
meet even basic food requirements.



9.         In terms of such health indicators as infant mortality, life expec-
tancy, and incidence of disease, Nigeria is not much better than the poorest
countries in Africa. Infant mortality is believed to be well over 100 per
thousand, and life expectancy still under 50 years. This is in spite of a
substantial rise in the number of doctors, nurses, and hospitals in relation
to Nigeria's population. Reduction of mortality in Nigeria, as in other coun-
tries experiencing rapid rises in income, will be a slow process, requiring
the spread of an effective primary health care system and progress on a range
of related socio-economic factors, particularly nutrition, primary education,
and water supply.
10.       Nigeria has, however, taken big strides in human resource develop-
ment through the Government's firm commitment to universal primary education
(UPE). As a result, some 60 percent of the school age children are now
enrolled, and in several parts of the south, UPE is already a reality. The
pace at which the program was pursued inevitably created problems, e.g. lack
of trained teachers, deterioration in the quality of education, diversion of
labor from agriculture, and a rising demand for secondary education. But
these initial troubles are likely to ease when the rate of expansion stabi-
lizes. Within the next two decades Nigeria should be transformed from a
country with very high rates of illiteracy to one where most of the population
has been to school.
11.       Although there was little increase in agricultural output during
most of the 1970s, off-farm rural activity expanded considerably, mostly from
public expenditures on construction following the oil boom. Rural incomes
were also augmented by the rapid growth in the service sectors and a probable
increase in remittances from urban areas. The growth in incomes appears to
have been spread widely and to have relieved the rural poverty somewhat.
12.       In urban areas, formal sector employment rose rapidly, perhaps
around 8 percent a year in the 1970s. But real wages appear not to have risen
over the last 15 years. In 1975, there was a substantial increase in public
sector wages, promptly followed by an increase in the private sector. But
this gain was quickly eroded by the ensuing high inflation and the Government's
restraint on further wage increases as part of its policy to control inflation.
Nevertheless, average real wage earnings appear to have risen as a result of
the distribution of employment moving towards the higher paying sectors. Fur-
thermore, since formal sector employment rose in relative terms, an increasing
proportion of the labor force came to enjoy a higher standard of living.
Although the relative size of the informal sector appears to have declined
slightly over the past decade, it still is the dominant mode of employment in
urban areas. Because of the rapid expansion in construction, trade and
commerce, the income earning possibilities in this sector remained generally
good, and average real incomes at the lower end of the scale probably remained
stable, or even improved slightly.
Economic Prospects
13.       As the major source of public revenue and foreign exchange earnings,
oil is basic to an assessment of Nigeria-s long-term economic prospects. On



present knowledge, Nigeria's oil output over the next decade is not expected
to be sustained above the current average of 2.15 mbd; by 1990 it may even
begin to decline. With domestic consumption of oil products rising rapidly
(over 15 percent a year), the exportable surplus is expected to decline from
the current rate of over 90 percent of output to about 70 percent by 1990.
Thus, if past trends persist, and no new sources of export earnings and public
revenue are developed to make up for the relative decline of the oil sector,
Nigeria's balance of payments and fiscal situation can be expected to tighten
over time. Even with a relatively moderate rise in imports, large current
account deficits can be expected to reappear towards the end of the 1980s,
leading to a deterioration in the balance of payments in the 1990s, when
maintenance of steady economic growth will become increasingly difficult.
Budgetary deficits could appear even sooner, threatening domestic economic
stability. Future dramatic increases in the oil price may postpone the
financial difficulties, but this is a risky basis for formulating a long-term
growth strategy.
14.       In order that dependence on imports may decline and non-oil exports
may gradually begin to replace oil exports, projections suggest that Nigeria
has roughly ten years to make the necessary structural adjustments. Accelera-
ting growth in the agricultural sector - which grew by only 1 percent a year in
the 1970s - will be the most difficult task. The growth of the other sectors
of the economy, such as power, transport, and construction, should receive its
impulse primarily from commodity production. The expected rapid increase in
population and labor force (estimated at over 3 percent a year) necessitates
maintaining a fairly high rate of economic growth over the next two decades.
15.       The Government of Nigeria is committed to achieving a balanced and
sustainable economic growth path. The Outline of the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan indicates that, while the unfinished projects from the Third Plan
period would be speedily completed, greater emphasis will be placed on sti-
mulating agricultural production. A target of food self-sufficiency by 1985
has been set, and a Food Production Plan has just been completed. It sets out
the Government's agricultural strategy over the coming five years, which is
centered on raising the productivity of smallholders. While the target is
ambitious, and may not be achieved within the plan period, it is indicative of
the high priority that is being attached to this sector. There is likely to
be strong emphasis again on education, as in the past, but the expected in-
clusion of a large low-cost housing program would be a new departure. Given
the great improvement in Nigeria's financial prospects, and assuming an active
private sector, domestic investment is expected to be maintained at a hi6h
level. This should permit the economy to grow at around 5 percent a year--
more than 6 percent for non-oil GDP--with fair potential for employment
generation.
16.       The availability of skilled manpower will remain a major constraint
on economic development over the coming years. Although the Government has
given high priority to manpower development, there are still severe shortages
in several lines of activity. The dependence on expatriates is particularly
high in scientific and technical occupations. The demand for middle-level
skills is expected to rise rapidly with an increasing emphasis in government



- 5 -
programs on poverty alleviation, education, and preventive health. In the
short-term, expatriates may alleviate some of these shortages, but ultimately
the solution lies in improving the quality and coverage of education and
expansion of pre-service and in-service training programs.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
17.       Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to US$7
billion at the end of 1980. A limited amount of borrowing on commercial terms
is expected to continue. However, by the mid-1980s, when the debt service on
currently contracted loans will peak, payments will still amount to no more
than 5 percent of export earnings. The World Bank's share in total debt
outstanding amounts to about 15 percent. Given the relatively low level of
external indebtedness, the Government's generally cautious approach to external
borrowing, and the favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is likely to
remain around 5 percent through 1990. Under the circumstances, Nigeria is
creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
18.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1981 amounted
to US$1408.5 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1981 was US$729.8 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$678.7 million. Transport, power and water supply
together account for about 50 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
about 31 percent (most of which was committed in the last six fiscal years);
and education, industry, urban and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the
remaining 19 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY79 were
about US$60 million, and US$55 million in FY80, but are expected to increase
in the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria.
There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.4
million, and six equity investments totalling US$5.4 million. Of these
amounts, US$4.2 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government-s priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Reports
for the Bauchi State and Kano Agricultural Development Projects approved
by the Executive Directors on April 30, 1981.



- t -
20.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater Bank
involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated. In develop-
ing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective is to
encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government's invest-
ment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure investment,
which characterized the two or three years following the oil boom of 1973/74,
towards a more discriminating support for growth in the commodity producing
sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise the productivity
of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute
poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively pursued in recent
agricultural projects, including the Bauchi State and Kano projects,l/ which
benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending of this
kind would continue to figure prominently in the future lending program. A
third objective of Bank lending is to support the Federal Government s efforts
to diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum
as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. Agricultural lending, in
particular, would include strengthening the potential for export crops such as
cocoa.
21.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two or
three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will also
require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure, however.
There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant
contribution in road maintenance, power and water supply, including the
currently proposed project. Further project identification work is under way
in these sectors. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending for
education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical, and
teacher training be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
the Federal and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to
the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of
rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projects, along the lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State,
focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The Bank is also considering a
request from the Federal Government to assist in overcoming the country's
health problems. A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines would
be in keeping with the need to generate employment, and would also support
the Federal Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues to
alleviate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
22.       The assessment of the water supply and sanitation sector in Nigeria
is rendered particularly difficult because of serious limitations of reliable
data. From the fragmented and partial information available, it is estimated
that about one-half of the urban population has access to piped water.
1/   Approved by the Executive Directors on April 30, 1981.



- 7 -
However, there are great differences among localities. Furthermore, access to
piped water is not in itself a sufficient indicator of sector development.
Even where a piped water system is installed, the quality and the consistency
of service is frequently poor. Waterborne diseases are widely prevalent in
Nigeria, particularly gastroenteritis, and their incidence may be attributed
directly to deficiencies in water supply services. This has contributed to
making Nigeria amongst the most impoverished of nations in terms of health
standards and life expectancy (42 years).
23.       The Government attaches high priority to improving and expanding
water supply and sanitation services. To this end, the water supply and sani-
tation sectors were reorganized by the new civilian Government, and responsi-
bilities were reallocated among federal, state, and local authorities. The
Federal Ministry of Water Resources, created in October 1979, is now responsible
for national water resources planning and policies, regional allocation of
resources and overall coordination, and the states for all urban and rural
water supplies. Although the quality of the state water supply agencies and
the efficiency of their services vary widely, the agencies are generally
organizationally weak, and lack technical capabilities and financial resources.
Local Governments (LGs) have constitutionally only relatively minor functions,
such as establishment and maintenance of markets, motor parks, and licensing.
Major functions, such as construction and maintenance of roads and drains, as
well as sewerage and refuse collection and disposal, can be undertaken by LGs
only with authorization from and in conjunction with state governments. The
institutional framework for sanitation is in general rudimentary, and most
LG's lack the technical capacity for management of ongoing systems and forward
planning.
24.       Faced with this situation, the Federal Government is striving to
organize the sector through institutional improvements at all levels. To
assess the current situation and future development requirements, the Govern-
ment, with the help of the WHO/Bank Cooperative Program, is currently carrying
out a state-by-state review of the financial and manpower resources required
to meet the International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade's goals of
providing all people with access to safe water and, to the extent possible,
with sanitation by the year 1990. Assessments have already been prepared for
five states including Anambra and, when completed for the remaining 14
states, will provide a valuable input to sector planning. The strategy
adopted by the Government emphasizes the need to assist first urban areas
where population concentrations create greater health problems. As the state
water supply agencies gain experience, the benefits of reliable and safe water
supply would be extended increasingly to the rural areas. To accelerate the
development of water and sanitation services on a broad front, the Government
plans to develop prototype schemes, such as the proposed project, that can be
replicated in other states. Anambra State was selected because it is rela-
tively advanced in its attempts to promote rational policies for sector
development, including reorienting the Anambra State Water Corporation (ASWC)
toward a meaningful cost recovery program and preparing a statewide improvement
program starting with four major urban centers--Enugu, Onitsha, Abakaliki, and
Nsukka.



- 8-
Sector Organization in Anambra State
25.       ASWC was created in 1976 to replace the former East Central State
Water Board. It inherited very deficient records, most having been destroyed
during the civil war, too few senior staff, and an overly centralized decision-
making system. Since its inception, ASWC has been operating with insufficient
appropriations from the State Government budget, on which it depends almost
entirely to operate and maintain its system. Consequently, plant, equipment,
and structures are in poor condition. Currently, ASWC-s internally generated
revenues contribute less than 20 percent to ASWC expenditures, although efforts
are being made to reorient the corporation along commercial lines. In 1979,
ASWC was placed under a parent Ministry of Public Utilities which was assigned
the responsibility for overseeing the water supply activities of ASWC as well
as for planning and constructing drainage and sewage disposal systems. The
Ministry dissolved the former ASWC Board of Directors, and systematically
eroded the operational autonomy which the corporation previously enjoyed.
However, to restore ASWC's autonomy and thereby strengthen its operational
efficiency, the Anambra State Government (ANSG) agreed at negotiations that
ASWC should have a Board representing both public and private interests
(Section 2.08 of ANSG Agreement).
26.       The Ministry of Health's responsibilities in planning and construc-
tion in the sanitation sector are complemented by the 23 LG's in the State
which are responsible for the operation and maintenance of drainage, sewerage,
and refuse disposal systems. The LG's generally lack the manpower and finan-
cial resources necessary to plan and operate these services, and require
substantial financial and administrative assistance from ANSG in order to
carry out their responsibilities.
Levels of Water Supply and Sanitation Service in Anambra
27.       Anambra State has an estimated 1980 population of five million, of
whom one million are estimated to be urban dwellers. Approximately 40 percent
of the latter have no access to piped water supply. The 60 percent who have
access through house connections or standpipes have only intermittant service.
The proposed project would concentrate on the city of Onitsha which has an
estimated population of about 280,000, projected to grow at a rate of 5
percent per annum for the next five years or so. It is estimated that about
27 percent of the city's population lives below the absolute poverty threshold.
The urban poor are spread throughout the city, interspersed among higher
income residents, with the exception of a concentration of urban poor in a
squatter settlement (Okpoko) at the city's outskirts. This settlement has no
municipal services nor basic infrastructure, and about half the residents live
below the absolute poverty threshold. Its population of 40,000, consisting
mainly of rural migrants, is projected to more than double by 1985.
28.       Onitsha's water supply system serves about 60 percent of the popula-
tion twice daily for about four hours, and cannot cope with the demands now
placed on it. Present installations supply 30 liters per capita per day
(lcd) compared to 65 lcd considered by the Bank to be an acceptable average
in Africa. Although a larger percentage of the population in Onitsha has



- 9 -
access to piped water than in some of the State's other cities, Onitsha is
thought to be much worse off in terms of general living standards and sanitary
conditions, since it is a major market center with a large (30 percent)
transient population.
29.       There are no waterborne sewerage services in the State.  Most of
its urban population relies on buckets and latrines for night-soil disposal.
Solid refuse collection is totally inadequate, and the urban population simply
dumps its refuse into the streets and drainage canals. The LG's contract
private firms to collect nightsoil, but the latter have no special vehicles,
and dump on uncontrolled sites. In Onitsha, storm drainage consists of open
canals that are subject to blockage from refuse which causes considerable
flooding, with water regularly backing up into the streets during the rainy
season. Refuse dumped into the streets is more prevalent in Onitsha than in
other cities in the State because of market activities. Traffic congestion
impedes any organized collection system, and the amount of accumulated non-
biodegradable material poses significant health hazards.
Bank Role
30.       The Bank's main objective in support of the water supply sector
is to assist the Federal Government's efforts to bring about institutional
improvements, and to strengthen operational and financial management in
selected states. In this context, we have also been discussing with the
Federal Government the need to create a national capacity for Nigeria to plan
and develop projects on its own, and the Government has expressed an interest
in receiving technical assistance from the Bank for this purpose. The scope
and design of the proposed project puts emphasis on institutional and manage-
ment improvements at the state and local levels. A second major objective of
Bank assistance for water supply and sanitation projects is to support improved
health and environmental activities. A third objective, closely related to
the institutional objective, is to encourage the introduction of cost recovery
principles. For these reasons the Bank envisages support for several addi-
tional water supply and sanitation projects in the next few years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The Anambra State project was prepared by the ANSG and ASWC with
the assistance of consultants financed with a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance of US$415,000 approved by the Bank in May 1979. The project
was appraised by the Bank in December 1979, and the staff appraisal report
(3036-UNI) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Several state and local government agencies were involved in project prepara-
tion, and two post-appraisal missions have been undertaken to ensure proper
agency coordination. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1981.
Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.



- 10 -
Project Objectives
32.       The project would strengthen ASWC's planning and implementation
capability through assistance in undertaking a management improvement program
and in providing a comprehensive package of improved water supply services in
Onitsha, one of Nigeria-s major and fastest growing urban centers. The project
would benefit a large segment of the city's population including low income
groups. Its design should ensure replicability elsewhere. In addition, the
project would assist in developing adequate sanitation services and planning
for future urban growth in Onitsha.
Project Description
33.       The project comprises major improvements in the Onitsha water supply
and sanitation system. It involves expansion of the city's water supply
intake, treatment plant, and storage reservoirs, as well as extension of the
transmission and distribution network and installation of 260 standpipes and
6,000 water meters. These improvements will increase coverage from 60 percent
of the current population to 90 percent of the estimated 1985 population, and
incorporate service to most of the city's lowest income residents. The
project would also include the construction and equipping for ASWC of new
headquarters and workshops, construction of staff quarters, and installation
of communications systems. The sanitation system operated by the Onitsha
Local Government (OLG) would be upgraded through the provision of equipment
and technical assistance for refuse and nightsoil collection and disposal and
improvements in drainage canals. Through these activities, nightsoil and
refuse collection service would increase to serve over 80 percent of the
population. The project would extend water supply and sanitation services
to the outskirts of Onitsha, including the squatter settlement of Okpoko
(para. 27), and provide infrastructure to accommodate project-related services
for Okpoko in accordance with a recently prepared urban plan.
34.       In order that the physical improvements to be implemented under
the project may have the greatest possible impact upon public health, Onitsha
would serve as a test model for a state Ministry of Public Health education
program to include media campaign activities, development of a school curricu-
lum, and training of health officers. This would be a pilot endeavor within
the Nigerian context. If it proves successful, the aim would be to incorporate
similar health education components in other water supply and sanitation
projects.
Project Implementation
35.       The Anambra water supply component would be implemented over a
period of five years by ASWC. Consulting firms are currently preparing
detailed design studies, and would be retained to assist project authorities
in supervising civil works and equipment purchases. Tender documents for water
supply and drainage are expected to be ready by July 1981. The sanitation
component, which is smaller in scope, would take only three years to complete.
The implementation of this component would be shared between ANSG and OLG.
ANSG would be responsible for all construction, such as roads and drains, and
OLG would be responsible for procurement, operation, and maintenance of refuse
and nightsoil collection and disposal equipment. The Ministry of Public



- 11 -
Hlealth would implement the health education program. The coordination of
implementing the various project activities has been placed under a Project
Steering Committee, which was established in July 1980. The Committee has
ultimate responsibility for the successful execution of the project, and is
responsible to the State Government.  It is comprised of representatives of
all of the state and local agencies involved in project execution, and is
chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Public Utilities.
36.       It was agreed during negotiations that ASWC's nucleus of competent
senior management would need to be complemented by the appointment of addi-
tional senior staff in the positions of project manager, commercial manager,
and chief training officer (Sections 2.02(c) and 3.02(b) of the ASWC Project
Agreement). The first two people have recently been appointed. The manage-
ment assistance program would further provide for nine internationally-
recruited experts in the areas of financial and commercial systems, training,
electrical and mechanical engineering, and water distribution (Section 2.03
of the ASWC Project Agreement). These short-term experts would assist in
implementing ASWC's cost recovery program and in upgrading its technical staff
through appropriate training programs. ASWC has had problems in retaining
competent management staff because of low salary scales. ANSG has, therefore,
agreed to approve new job classifications and upgrade salaries for ASWC before
June 30, 1982 (Section 2.05 of the ANSG Agreement).
37.       The financial and technical capacities of OLG would be upgraded
through the establishment of an adequate accounting and cost recovery system
and the creation of a Sanitation Department. As agreed at negotiations, OLG
has recently appointed a Sanitation Department manager, and would further
appoint a Town Treasurer and experts for improving Onitsha-s accounting
system, traffic flow, and landfill and workshop management by September 30,
1981 at the latest (Sections 2.03 and 2.04(b) of the OLG Project Agreement).
Project Costs
38.       Total project costs are estimated at US$120.6 million (including
taxes and duties of US$4.3 million), of which the foreign exchange component
would amount to US$67.0 million or 55 percent. A breakdown of costs by major
expenditure categories is given in the Loan and Project Summary. Physical
contingencies for civil works range from 7 percent to 15 percent of base costs
depending on the complexity of works. Price contingencies for local costs
allow for an annual rate of inflation of 15 percent throughout the project
period. Price contingencies for foreign costs are estimated at 10.5 percent
for 1981, 10 percent for 1982, 9 percent for 1983, and 8 percent for 1984 and
thereafter. On this basis, total contingencies are estimated at 36 percent of
base costs.
Project Financing
39.       The proposed loan of US$67.0 million to the Federal Government would
finance 57 percent of the total project costs, net of taxes and duties, and
would be equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of the project. The Federal



- 12 -
Government as borrower would onlend the loan to ANSG, which would further
onlend US$55.2 million to ASWC for the water supply component and US$3.0
million to OLG for the refuse and night soil disposal component, all on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. The balance of US$8.8 million
would be retained by ANSG for the health education program, construction
of sanitation works, and other project-related infrastructure. ASWC would
carry the foreign exchange risk on US$55.2 million and ANSG on the remaining
US$11.8 million. During the five-year grace period, interest payments on the
proposed loan to ASWC would be met by ANSG to ease the cash flow position of
ASWC as a whole and its Onitsha zone.  The signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Federal Government and ANSG and subloan agreements
between ANSG and ASWC and between ANSG and OLG would be conditions of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement). As detailed in the Loan
and Project Summary, of the remaining project cost, ANSG would contribute
US$48.1 million, or 40 percent of total project cost, and ASWC US$5.5 million,
or 4.5 percent, from internal cash generation.
40.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart fund-
ing, assurances were obtained during negotiations that ANSG would make the
necessary allocation in its annual budgets, and, for the water supply com-
ponent, deposit each quarterly contribution of such budgetary allocations
three months in advance in a bank account opened by ASWC to be used exclusively
for the payment of capital expenditures under the project. ANSG would also
support the necessary tariff increases as would be determined by ASWC (para.
42). Furthermore, ANSG would continue to pay subventions to ASWC to cover any
operating shortfalls until ASWC can generate sufficient revenues (Sections
2.01(b), 2.04, and 2.07 of the ANSG Agreement). OLG would make appropriate
budgeting provisions for its part of the project and for the payment to ASWC
of moneys due for water consumed at standpipes within OLG's area of authority.
OLG would also establish and maintain an improved accounting system for its
service (Sections 2.02 and 4.01 of the OLG Agreement). As far as ASWC is
concerned, it was agreed that the corporation would use the revenues from the
Onitsha zone primarily to pay for the zones operating and capital expenditures
and to service the zone's debt. Separate accounts and financial statements
would be prepared for the zone, and audited accounts would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year. Tariffs would be
adjusted each year to generate revenues sufficient to cover at least the sum
of operating expenditures, debt service, and an average of 23 percent of
ASWC-s capital expenditures for the fiscal years 1983-86 for the Onitsha zone,
and gradually also for the other districts. Finally, additional debt would
not be incurred by ASWC unless its internal cash generation covers its maximum
future debt service 1.5 times (Sections 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, and 4.05 of the
ASWC Project Agreement).
Financial Situation and Prospects
41.       Neither ASWC as a whole, nor any of its zones, is currently finan-
cially viable. Since its establishment in 1976, ASWC has received substantial



- 13 -
operating subsidies from ANSG because it was providing a basic need which
did not require full cost recovery. Realizing the increasing drain on its
budgetary resources and the increasing inefficiency of ASWC, ANSG has now
come around to the cost recovery principle. However, it will take time
to put ASWC on a sound financial footing. As a result of expected tariff
action (para. 42), increased water sales, improved billing and collection,
and reduction in unaccounted-for water as part of the project's Operations
and Management Improvement Program, ASWC's Onitsha district is expected
to become financially viable in FY83. The project would help ASWC to bring
all districts eventually to a level of financial viability comparable to
that envisaged for the Onitsha district.
42.       To meet the financial targets proposed for the Onitsha district,
and gradually also for the other districts, it is projected that the tariff
level will need to be increased by nearly 300 percent above current levels
over the project period. The first increase would take place in Onitsha
in 1982, concurrent with initial improvements in water supply, followed by
further annual increases of about 25 percent during project implementation.
So far, tariffs have been extremely low in Anambra, and even though they
were increased statewide by as much as 300 percent in January 1980--the first
increase in 15 years--they remain low in comparison with other West African
countries. The rate of US$0.38 equivalent per cubic meter for domestic
metered consumers in Anambra compares to US$0.31 in Kaduna State of Nigeria,
US$0.62 in Cameroon, US$0.66 in Ivory Coast, and US$0.50 in Guinea, for
example. Currently, the monthly charges for a typical family of eight,
assuming an average water consumption of 55 lcd, would be N2.30 or about
1 percent of the monthly income of such a family at the absolute urban
poverty threshold. The tariff level adjustments proposed under the project
would increase average monthly charges to N5.30 by 1985, which would repre-
sent about 3 percent of monthly income compared to an average of 5 percent
considered affordable internationally.
43.       In deciding upon its future tariff structure, ASWC would pay
particular attention to the needs of the low-income consumers, and would
make use of the tariff study which is currently being carried out as part
of the Kaduna Water Supply Project (Loan 1711-UNI). The proposed project
would provide metered private or semi-private connections for about 60 per-
cent of the Onitsha population by 1987 increasing to 70 percent by 1990.
Household income surveys, undertaken by the consultants who prepared the
project, estimate that this proportion of Onitsha's population would be
able to afford the cost of connection. The remaining low and lower-middle
income population (30 percent) would be served by public standpipes, which
would be metered but completely paid for by OLG. ASWC plans to introduce
a program of subsidized household connections for much of the Onitsha popu-
lation still served by standpipes as soon as possible after the completion of
the project. This program would be financed from revenues generated by ASWC
through water sales to metered consumers, and would allow lower-income groups
access to private and semi-private connections. This would also make it
possible to effectively charge these groups for water consumption (although
at lower rates than the higher income consumers), and thus charge practically
all consumers, which is not the case at present.



- 14 -
44.       As mentioned in paragraph 40, OLG would have to provide in its
annual budgets for the effective operation and maintenance of the proposed
project's solid waste management programs, including debt service and related
equipment replacement costs. OLG, in common with other local governments,
is required to operate proper financial management and accounting systems.
However, the requirements and concepts are rather outdated, and the systems
do not allow for a decision on whether the right costs are being charged for
the right service and, hence, correctly recovered. Similarly, the property
tax system, although based on comprehensive valuation lists prepared by firms
of chartered surveyors in 1979, is not being used to full advantage, and
tax collection is very weak. Consequently, as part of the project, OLG's
Town Treasurer (para. 37) would receive expert assistance to ensure the in-
stallation of appropriate accounting and cost recovery systems and to
develop OLG's property tax unit into a properly controlled billing and
collection outfit.
Procurement
45.       All contracts above US$500,000 for plant and equipment, and above
US$1,000,000 for civil works would be awarded through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts
below these limits, but above US$100,000 for plant and equipment and above
US$200,000 for civil works, would be awarded through local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Local and international shopping
with at least 3 quotations would apply to: (i) equipment up to US$100,000
aggregating to less than US$1 million and (ii) civil works up to US$200,000
aggregating to less than US$2 million. Domestically manufactured goods
procured under ICB would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable
import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation. Supply
contracts awarded under ICB are estimated at some US$33 million, out of which
local suppliers may well win contracts totalling US$15 million for small
diameter pipes, meters, refuse collection equipment, and minor items. Major
civil works, with contracts above the value of US$1 million, are estimated
at about US$11 million, and are likely to be won by foreign, but locally
incorporated, contractors. Contracts for installation of pipes and drains
would be packaged to enable local Nigerian firms to tender for sections of
these. The aggregate amount of contracts let under LCB would be about US$10
million.
46.       ASWC would carry out the installation of connections in Onitsha,
valued at US$0.5 million, by force account. The tasks are irregular and too
small to be of interest to contractors. ASWC has a large labor force qualified
to carry out this work.
47.       The nature and size of the works to be executed under the project
is expected to attract foreign companies in addition to those locally incor-
porated. Such companies coming to Nigeria to execute projects assisted by the
Bank would not be affected by current legislation requiring incorporation as
Nigerian companies. The legislation, requiring most companies to obtain 40
or 60 percent Nigerian ownership, seeks to promote the transfer of techno-
logy and to obtain the maximization of benefits to Nigeria. To comply with
the Bank's procurement requirements and, at the same time, to obtain the



- 15 -
transfer of technology sought by Nigeria, companies awarded a contract under
a project assisted by the Bank would be exempted from the incorporation
requirement; however, as a general rule, the contractors would be asked to
provide for the proper training of Nigerian staff.
Disbursement
48.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of
foreign exchange expenditures on directly imported goods or, if purchased
locally, 80 percent of total expenditures on water supply plant, equipment and
materials, and 62 percent on equipment for solid wastes and nightsoil collec-
tion. In the case of civil works, loan proceeds would be disbursed against
42 percent of total expenditures for civil works contracts for water supply
and sanitation facilities and 60 percent for civil works and equipment of
the health education component. The cost of salaries and allowances for
internationally-recruited staff and consulting services and overseas training
would be fully compensated, or at 75 percent of total expenditure if obtained
locally. An additional provision of US$3.9 million has been made on an
unallocated basis. Provision has also been made for up to US$900,000 of
retroactive financing of detailed design and bid documents for the Onitsha
water supply scheme and for three internationally-recruited experts who are
currently assisting ASWC in rehabilitating technical facilities and setting up
billing and recovery systems. The submission of an approved layout plan by
OLG for Okpoko (para. 33) would be a condition of disbursement for the sanita-
tion civil works component.
Project Benefits
49.       The proposed project would provide Onitsha with reliable supplies of
safe water, and substantially strengthen the present water supply organization
in the State. Approximately 260,000 people in Onitsha, most of them low-
income, would have access to piped water for the first time, and a further
80,000 people would benefit from improved service and safer water. The
sanitation component would bring substantial relief to most of Onitsha's urban
population through regularized refuse and nightsoil collection, particularly
in low income areas. The health education program would increase popular
awareness of the relationship between safe water and waste disposal collection
and personal health. In addition, the squatter-settlement of Okpoko would be
provided with key access roads and drainage to allow for the settlement's
orderly expansion. The project has been designed to provide acceptable
standards of service at the lowest possible cost. The project is expected to
meet water supply demand until 1990 at which time additional investments would
have to be made to cope with future demand. The technical assistance included
in the project is designed to substantially improve ASWC's and OLG's opera-
tional and financial capabilities in order to improve service and planning for
future development.
50.       The internal economic rate of return of the project's Onitsha water
supply component (which represents about 60 percent of total project cost)
has been calculated using incremental revenues based on future water charges



- 16 -
in the Onitsha zone. Costs include capital costs associated with the project
plus recurrent costs. The rate of return in border prices, based on increased
tariff levels proposed under the project, is estimated at about 9 percent.
If revenue streams are based on current tariffs, the rate of return would drop
to 2 percent. However, the rate does not reflect the full benefits of the
project such as health improvements, increased productivity, employment
creation, and others mentioned above. Furthermore, the current demand price
for water is much higher than present tariff levels as expressed in consumer
willingness to pay up to N30/m3 a month to private vendors. The rate of
return is highly sensitive to different schedules of tariff increase, but
hardly at all to cost variations. A 10 percent increase in costs would affect
the rate of return by less than 1 percent.
Project Risks
51.       Project risks are commensurate with those for projects offering
an integrated approach to problem-solving. A possible risk would be the
complexity of coordinating several implementing agencies. However, this
risk has been reduced by the establishment of the Project Steering Committee
comprising all project officers and representatives of the agencies and
ministries involved (para. 35). A second risk would be ASWC's ability to
recruit and keep capable management. Recruitment of senior staff is currently
underway. The pool of capable managers remains limited, however, and the
market for qualified senior staff is very competitive in Nigeria. For this
reason, ASWC would undertake to establish new job classifications and to
increase salary scales (para. 36).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Anambra
State Water Corporation, and the Bank and the Onitsha Local Government,
the draft Agreement between the Bank and Anambra State, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III.
Conditions of effectiveness are the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Anambra State Government and
the signing of sub-loan agreements between the Anambra State Government and
the Anambra State Water Corporation and between the Anambra State Government
and the Onitsha Local Government.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 11, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                   Page 1 of 5
NICURIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                         RCEPtFNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTYD AVE AG.ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO- EN.)                                                         - HDST RECENT EST!YATE)-
TOTAL            923. 8
AGRICULTURAL     448.2                                 MOST RECErT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLF INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTRH OF SAHARA  LATIN AYERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
CLNP PER CAPITA (US)                 160.0        250.0     670.0                868.0                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS Cr C3AL ;:iU:VALENT)     34.0        52.0      106.0                699.4                   1055. 9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILL10NS)     51.6        66.2       80. 6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13. 1        16.4      19.5                 28.9                    63.b
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      153.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       425.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IM.                       56.0         72.0      88.0                 61. 7                   28.1
PER SQ. XH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0       152.0      181.0                126.0                    81. 7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.4        46.6       47.2                 45.5                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.3        51.0      50.3                  51.6                    54. 7
65 YRS. AND AEOVE                   2. 3        2.4        2.4                  2.8                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5        2.5                  2. 7                    2. 7
URBAN                              A.8         4.7        4. 7                 4.9                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUSAND)     52.0        51.0       50.0                 46.8                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUSAND)     25.0        21.0       18.0                 16.4                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.3        3.4                  3. 2                    2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPIrA (1969-71-100)         100.0       102.0      88.0                  94.0                   106. 9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   79.0        82.0      82.0                  92. 7                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        44.0      45.0                  53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0        10.0       11.0                 15.6                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     38.0        33.0      24.0                  21.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0        64.0      48.0                  50. 1                   63. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       154.O>       *-                                          66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                  31.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  66.8                    80. 4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    44. 0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    62.3
VRBAN                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                  ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         56895.0    24664.0   15803.0                14508.2                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     6020.0/d    5072.0   4028.0                 3279.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2765.0/    2220.0   1409.0                  1141. 5                  480.3
URBAN                               ..       400.0
RURAL                               ..     18450.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       4.7
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NLHBER OF PERSONS PER ROON
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              3.0          ..       2.2
RURAL
ACCESS TI ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             81.0          ..
URBAN                             81.3          ..      42.4
RURAL                               ..



ANNEX I
-19 -                                          Page 2 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEIACDS
- hDST RECEIIT UfTl
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE Il30W
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA  LATIN ANERICA & CARDIANN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 36.0        34.0      42.0                  61. 7                    99.7
MALE                 46.0         43.0      50.0                  69.2                    101.0
FEMALE               27.0         25.0      33.0                  51.4                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  4.0         6.0        ..                  20.6                     34.4
MALE                  6.0          8.0        ..                  29.2                     33.5
FEMALE                1.0          4.0        ..                  14.7                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  5.0           8.5       3. 8/f                7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.0        34.0      34.0                  36.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                          19.0        21.0      25.0                  24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.0          ..        ..                    ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         1.0        ..                  38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3. 0       23.0      79.0                  83. 5                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1         1.4       1.6                    ..                     84.2
NEDSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   8. 0        5. 0      9.0                  24.2                     63. 3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       0.5                   0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    21788.5      25988.8   30331. 1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  41.3         40.6      40.0                  38.1                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.8        62.1      56.0                  54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.4        13.8      17.0                  17.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42. 7       40.5      39.1                  38.8                     31.5
MALE                                 50.9        48.8      47.4                  48.4                    4A9
FEKALE                               34.8        32.4      31.0                  29.4                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1. 1        1.2        1. 3                 1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OR HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
LUWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (IUS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     472.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     181.0                    ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     402.0                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     134.0                    ..                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for etch indicator are population-weighted aritl_etlc ueans.  Coverae of costrSe
asong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 snd 1961; for 1970, betwen 1f9
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1965-66 average;  /d 1963;  /e Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration;  /f Certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of vocational or technical
nature are now reported under general education.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNX I
210                                                      Page 3of 5
tSfglSTItSS OP SOCtAL OSiCATOOS
bee.: JAlthoug  the data ore doteI .yo  sources g.oeall  Judged the  _et aehsdeke                elabe  itshul   "1.h  e              t thye        tbe Intew-
uatioelly ceparohie heb     a  of rho lack of tadaded dftett1m   ad e-.age  ted b   ifrn   enra   orlete   h   e.    h   aso                                se
thelsee, agefal to deecr.iba  ri    of-soiu, ledittat  trends  ed rhenetonta  crtaIs  ajor doff ... ..b-ae c-u- trt-              .
Tha refenc  grusor             he s.  co.r-ry grou  of the subec  couoty en  (2)   cutry group ethieela  rghIer arsag  tat   then the  ...ev   pep
of to eujoo  ouut ...eecPt for  Capital Surplu  Oi  oot.re   tro   tir         ddle toos    -hti Africa and Middle I-st  Se thes  heet  adet
oooio-uituraleftinitin).  To the rofersoc  grop data the  -.Sra. -Populatio  weighted arhf-tic -ea  for  o  tadiato  -A  s1b    ely gh  at
least half of the ooat.ioe to a grou  ha. data fop chat idicator   Since tieh.       ern  of --ouris  ens rta. iteiato-   -esaa  tAt. aelLbiLity ad
date endIa our uniform, caution  -ea he Iuroee     -it raaigorero           of Oe ind Icato  to anoher   The.aav-..ge  are ely egO   L. in tperleg theenn
of on idicator  t a tie  -ug  the coutry and -fer-o gtroupe
LAND AMi  (thouand     kuh.)                                                            rowtueiwe wet Pheok          op"letie  dIvIdd by  .on  .1 wentabs pap-
Tonal - Total. eafoce ara  epil    la  area ad llao  rarer..                             tieaa qealif ld fro  o nalu1 .oobal at elersiny SinS
for crop., p-en-ee  nrbt nod kitoha        rereo  to lie Calm; 197-7 date,.          mletand fel raan   Parsa  Praninal mae, d sestsaeae
SIP PR COITA liii) - GNP Poro pt  eerie . tlte at cret nolkn polo-, cal-                Poolbtio  ntgsie .d -.1totald.b atbe."a- twol - Peplte(taMbe"
oalne  by  -s  cvrtnntbhd a  World Daub Atlaa (1977-49 baa..) ; 1960,                  urlban, end rurali diie Pitby their  reeoiw ff e   ad beta beds
1970. ..d 19794.t..                                               Mb~~~~~~~~heilitetiot  Hetee   Iopitale an etblie- ta  psostly ana I-
DURCT CONSM0IPIOS PU CAPITA - Aaaa-1 n.co  oft ooeerc.a              . etery     y           at last       ptyId ta    fssblet bnn   proitieg  nioipal   setdlnl
end lignite. pettolac      t .. ouua  gsa and hydr-.  -uosa  atd gao0barm1 elec-        cetr   atpeaa             tf fed by a phyeiui  Notn by e a"Ioa    elnn
tricicyl to kiIogre of coal equvalen  par -pit.; 1960. 1970, and 1978                   oue.edoife, not.)  biob offer in-patien aodtseaP..id 
date.                                                                                   ni.ted raege of  Wnicel fs11i-iie    Per eUtatiacia  pwinPee  nte he-p
tale blade ete  principal genral  ad nyeuig d hepitsl. a  Tend
POPUIATION AND VITAL. STATISTICSI. hptolo iooal or rave  hoepioale en  nadoal ed etonniny oe
Tutel Pooalation. Kld-Teat  himllioa)-  Asof July 1; 1967, 1970, sd 1978              Aieos   rtotItalSd   T Toa  aras  of  td.gin   no odtArn
Urban  Proalti.t Itoct of nt-1) - Utin  of uban to tota  population;
different defItItlon  of urba .reae.say effect osperbility of data                WUIN
_ss co_trit; 1960. 1970, and 1978 dat.-                                             Ar-a,. Sii.e of Woaehold loereon  ear howehedl - enL.,         re,asa
tooaion SPm   20   C.ran  pool.tioo proJsctio.ta  r  ha..d at 1960                 adt:hei  sAsas A_            I dro  ege   yo  a   nth   nlddI
not1 population by eg   e   a   n   hermrai.sd  eoltrte                             ohWooeodIfreceta   purose
Pruoution pa'teut :for natoait  rate. opiea of thre  level  ascbveae  rfa  ofrreo ea                               -o   - tota. orbe-  -A   -al - Areat. 
Sot  if. _ epectanoe birth itrreaaig with coutry npe- ca.pita mo-                   her of Pareane Per roe    'al  -rirsa   ad rura  outepidn .eo
leel  andI fsele lift nootnc        .tbilIieto  st 77.5 yart.  The Pate-            dellinge. r-pe-ivoly.  icreligs.acrd  n-peeit s-trenae   a
naner  forfetil ity rett elea hov  th.-in  .ael  .ee...sg dalia. itoueaocpied par...-
fertility .....tding no iono leve  a   poet felly pleLeg  porfrmac.              koes  to tlectricitr Corcent of denillana  - total. erb. ad eael -
taobhcountr  is then aneiged on  of theae eto  oobiantion of na-nlity               Co-anIlnal dtIlilga with  senrct   IAlivla  qant-n   npaot
sad fnvility trends ft or : pr `atien Paroetf cocal, urbao, ad rut..I d.slliago reapetivlLy.
Stationar  e.tunio   - So a etaionar  poplation there ie on gronh e-.
the birth rate Is qea1 no the death ran., and alan the.g strctrer-             EDUCATION
ela   o tnnan.  moe if -nhlav    only  f na  fertility  -ete  dulian no           Adisted to-aliat ta-u
the relceat eelo   un t n   rerductio   se   hneo   onain                           Ognaho   tonl,tal en  fale-"rehatl,al  a  fels
of se   topauesitsel  anscly.The otatI-uy populatio  eisa                    enroi to of all aten at th    reylvl-psotens    at ospene
eatete  onthebaae o  th  prjated charanaritice o1,f the p.opulat..             reyeco-sepultion; errall  taclda    Lfthlld am6-l
in they.r zo-  t  a00.   the rate of deoltee offriity rte torplac-                    ysre ban adjuentd far differet lengtbe of pot1-y estlam; fo
_et leve.                                                                             oonriewthunvra  eduosi    ereli-t nay  --ese  NoM p.nt
Snot ensttansrv easalot ~to isrechd - The yea  hesttionay population             sosenpp-            n   eo   raoeteoftnletls
P uLoti  Density                                                                      aduceio  roqirs  an let f noye  ar efPprove  primay Setettet
Perfe, he. - tad-year poplation p-r squar  ilo-e  110-0 hrr)of                          Provdes genra. v       iuationl or eahe  oralgineots   o  peoth
Pertse  he1eiclualln  - Ceptid -  shov  for  gri-alturaI 1and                          eacl1u of12ded7.-s_.
PoolanenMe  tectae (arent  -Childre  (0-14 Ye-re).,nke-g   (15-                  tu s tooeial  fnetro. orone prer- ntd  apoat  .n.e-
64 ynre * ndreie  (65 yar-d wea) anperoatages of nid-y-a  popo-                         deanly oandepartent  of  -eoadar  ietintlan-
PoalnanGrn ir ae  nw     - nta -o Assa  greah ranee of tota  nid-                 prnt   n    Soudr  leel  dviedb  sr  et of tesoer  IA the               .
marpp=    u.sci  t r15-0    Wo-           a     0yS                                       orepnig  ees
Poneonio  ireth  ce  onron)- ob- - A-1a goweh rts. of urban popo-              Adult literc1rt  Iect t)    Ltoroto adrlns labia te ren -d a -it.)
lanio- for 1950-60. 196070, ad 1970-78.                                                 a  a poretage. of tota  adult popelanion  Bgn  IS y-neadi
Crude limblte Rj;wer,; .h. asil - Aeneal live birtho par thousond of elid-yea
populat ion   90   90r ad 1976 dana.                                              CCMWS(PTISI
Crude loath b.anela  tboed   - A-'l idatho Per tb.-"a  of Sd-year                     Ossete- Care Cos thousan  enulatiel -  eas-e-a            - oar  -e i - ate-
popelatin  196r 197r           7 OP  iot.                                             rv  nanio  lees then eight persna  eeoldse anleos  hears   a
Gret gssrducu-iam  an  - Average trb- of daagtnsre  0-o411 her it                       nlIitay -.hicla.
har anesal repreduceiva per~~~"iod if she onpei-ne  pynat ag-.paific fnr-  ladio.oevr  (ear th-dan  -nnla1     - All types of wolsfor ra."
tility tense; anooly fir-yar  -vsaga   ding Ic 1960, 1970, ad1977.                    broadcast  tog      .rl public per thousad of popaloten; enoide r.i-
Pofl Planies -AicaZt-oe  A.ersa  (tbeusonde  - Asanal arenh- of socopt.re              cnod  uoieeIn Lo.t-a  ad inyear the  reiaeniam  ef ro
of brth-ontol dvic  ade   =ueo   of atOal f-ily pleolag proBtr.                 s       os  na fact; dec  fot recet yars nay ea he cepsrsls sine  eelt
Pailv Plsnls  U-lr   barsn  fmrIed see   - Purotago of maried                           -outtiaaboliehe'd  coig
sa tchild-b-ootnsg  (IS-Ak year.) eho.s   it-oto  dric..eto                    TV R ..aIers (ror tb-uad  aulton   TV r-rever  ten hesdos   t
all maridsa   IA            age group.                                                go-.ro  public po   hoat  pouain-ldeaLio-..e  TV --L-.eo
MMs AM NUTIaTI0Lewasa Ci"'ste   ea   beedgan                                                                                       bta) -She  the  -eM.ooe2
ltdea of Poed PrdcteerCutai997-0)                     - m     of Per ..Pita sensl       tI    fdoily gaerl teosree   ees           dtIned an apsldiola Pd-
proute  o   l  oo   sdnis    rdtiiweJI Mlada  nd a  fend ad                           location dovtad prIl-rily to tourdie L. antal se.It iS neeldete
ie ono   -ea   erist.Catte  cove  prnav  gedteg.OtO 5                                 n  be 'daily" If It aPpa-te atlstfntnsasek
ma   f auer nbitih aediblo sad cotai    nriente (o.gS. ootff end               Cine A-1o Atted-a  eat Caeace ea   sa    bn  -te me
tea ae anlade).  Agragao prducton o nao  cousry i  baoe  wetkickt  sold during the yea., intlodingodgos  nadt                         e-n 
aniol vaag  preacrprim  eIghts; 1961-65. 1970, ad igs i_o.a nhla unite
F,v .-eIn. tamal ofnlote  rr             of reuoeao  -Cptnd fran
-ery oqivlet of net tad arpplios availble L. coecr  Per -aPite                  LAMD  peon
Per da.7  Aveilble epplies coepies dentic produoio, lrte len                      Totalt.1eito  Force Itheesande  - lo-eically  ative Pars. galedla
epote. and  hbasas  tu eeuk. eec enrobe saled   need.               n..              -are  force  end oewydht  -acldas  h-nslss  etdnnrn.
q_titian see  IA tad proaa ,a ad lo-s IA ditstihti-n   Deqirt-                      Derinition to. L. ra  connltstat cepsobia; 1940. 197s a0
Sat eeanmtd by FAt) b..ed on pbyahlogSiol  .ned  f or .nr-I anti-          1978 data.
oiyahealob=anoarg avre alteoe,body eight.. ae                                fpgp.nt     aeslbrfroa   ecnaeo   es   trtrs
a andietribote L of pop.Untie.a-        Iig1   otn   o   sea                 ~p~tc,,g5on      eo   or  Afelg   eee,t.t 
bea_bold levn; 1961-65, 1970. ad i977 data,                                         fishing a  parntago of total lab   fore.; 1940. 1970 ad 1978 dai.
Per  ian  an9l of er"rel  (are ear daS - frteint coa-  of pot o-pito               InutyW       ac )- Labor forc  to ni-n.   -tete              .  aoer
eatuppl  of lend Per day.  -a  sepy .fofoai   aid  an I.         s- ve. 1a            a  elatrcty. wen   a' gas an perceta    ef e.e   lbor tents  1940.
qrensf- or al coetrin  ntablibhd by USA Pr.-id. f. o   tIn-                   1970 a   98  o.
sionno   f 60 gre  gf renal prenIn pn day ad 20 gre  of anIma ad              Puiorinse  wtnl - tnl  es                          e.-Psti-nlesieo
polsa poeein  of whiob 10  ee eheeld he elel pretal.  Thos  na   a                   ctivity raa   r   otda   oa,n,a    e . Sber tart  M
eria ar  le_.t tba   re  of 75 gre of ntal. protein  a  23 eI          f            preng  o  oa,ml                  se.   entieefal                 nelsp
ealal  roeinanen  veagefo  th  aold  popo  b  PA  I  th  ~1940, 1970. ad175 date.Th.-e ar  ILgr. p-ettopatte  -ae  e -Lettlf
boldFon  taey;19645.1976 ad 1977 dana.                                       ag- -eerett  of the popultion, and losg  I-a toad. A tf- eni-
Per caina oetelaweeel toe   nlel  d elan - Ponain copply of fad de-         eue  r  fron_  _tnnlon suun
wive  fra  anIals        pule ingoesper day; 196165. 1970 a  19f77 data..   tuoneic sn__d_na   ln,o --R.-"o. oplein  ane  13 ad 65 a   no
aga gouPI  -     . eae  nachlde  IAni   ngo; too ea  doelpta  neo-
on. iota derive   Ore life ro1a;t1940. 1970 ad 1977 iota.                         mI.  DmsTnr1Me
P-rmta  of Priac  lane  (both IA 0-b  a   s1 - LStave  by pla-te
A-."   ..b.. of y-    f lif . .        ofWhaustholde.
at b.irth;190. 197  ad  97  data.
satMetlty at  lee  thenaand   - Aes-a  deatho of nfota aoder -   yer                       ap
of  ag  pa toSth .g   live 1     biothe.                                             luandAeln  PovertyM.,"E ga -slwl105  ear$ caia  -nt                        m     -
footoSl Vant   Coren efene.tie)- Wnta.sos  ad ousl -F'                            AbPoluta poverty gat-s Iavl is they Lane  lee -         ekA AAP
5me   ofpnple(ntal ehan  a   ca) wthreeoableocengtesatffttitiona1l sdsn-t  dlat plus aneanisi n-fesd ten"L-"  A  n
oue hao  -n that f to  preted boaee,sr1e,asntayel) an                            bieetd  weltivePvryfr   ee   55   a  en)-                           are
fousnen  or _adps  board ant eo  tha  200 natur    o   h-ea  na  he                   Peroa tacm   fteoutr.Ob   et  edeie    eesss
ronidered as hen  within ossunble anseof that b-oe. i  rura  arsfee   ih.)snu th r hiter.b coe -ofliIng  -in arbe ante.
do  ar  aveno  pan  a  iepopetioat th.   o--f. th  dayiofetchin  the          nod rura -t Percen  of. pouaIon. (ant af l      nral a.   are 0aslnpe
Masto  srt   tsng   urerA    n-Jto   - rurad, toh i.S,  
dinpon  an p-rotages of their respetive poplation R..isrta die-                                                    to-n,, ad Set Cal loi  DWvisi
p-es1na  ieclrdo the  -olnto             diorrel.  ith to without tr-tat,tot    Analysla ad Pojanas Seore
or bin     -.cut  ad wate-ns    by osrarb-hen   note  or tba  -n  of                                                              Otbn1
rit trivia  ad elilertnelate



ANNEX I
-21 -                                       Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (a. Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.        X                       1973-77               1977              1978
GNP at Market Prices                58800        100.0                         7.4                 3.0               5.6
Gross Domestic Investment           18423         31.3                        30.9                 6.4               7.8
Gross National Saving               14939         25.4                        17.7               -8.8                9.4
Current Account Balance             -3261          5.6                          -                  -                  _
Exports of Goods, NFS               12116         20.6                       -3.4                -1.8                7.1
Imports of Goods, NFS               14580         28.4                        36.0               21.5               -8.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                      Labor Force-l                  V. A. Per Worker
USS Mln.       X                  Mli.       Z                     US$            Z
Agriculture                         13920         23.9                 17.0      56.0                    819         43.0
Industry                            21922         37.7                  5.2      17.0                   4216        220.0
Services                            22318         38.4                  6.7      22.0                   3331        174.0
Unallocated                             -            -                  1.4       5.0                     -            -
Total/Average                  58160        100.0                 30.3    100.0                   1919        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
(V min.)% Xof GDP                              (WMin.)             X of GDP
1979/80    1978?79   1976/77-1977/78            1979/80     1978/79   1976/77-1977/78
Current Receipts                      13288        19.5         34.4                   9805       12.2          20.0
Current Expenditure                    5428        13.1         15.7                   2890        6.9           8.0
Current Surplus                       786           6.4         1.                    i791         5.3          12.0
Capital Expenditures                   9095        18.3         30.0                   7320       11.7          18.9
External Assistance (net)
HONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                  1975          1976           1977            1978             1979          1980  2/
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                     4167          5732           7439           8087             10406         11502
Bank Credit to Public Sector              -608           653           2634           4105              3678          2494
Bank Credit to Private Sector             1798          2423           3465           4684              5413          5846
CPercentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as X of GDP         25.1          26.9           28.8           n.a.              n.a.          n.a.
General Price Index (1960 - 100) 3/    289.6           352,4          423.1          492.5             550.0          n.a.
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       33.5           23,9          15.4           16.5              11.8          n.a.
Bank Credit to Public Sector               ..             ..          303.4           55.8             -10.4         -32.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector             58.4          34.8           43.0           35.2              15.6           8.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Data cover the period June 1980.
3/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices up to 1977. National Price Index from 1978.
Not available.
April 1981



_22 _                                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1977      1978       1979                                         USS Mln. 
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS               13,218    11,319    17,796         Crude Oil                          12,107    92.2
Imports of Goods, NFS               13,502    14,580    15,285         Cocoa Products                        640     4.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)            -284    -3,261       2,511       Palm Products                          30     0.2
Tin                                   18      0.1
Interest Payments (net)                324        246     -247         All Other Commodities                 332     2.6
Workers' Remittances                   -          -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)           -861       -474      -201
Net Transfers                         -185       -269      -388                          Total            13,127   100.0
Balance on Current Account          -1,006    -3,758    1,675
Direct Foreign Investment              382        211       305        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                         95      1,434    1,022                                              US$ Mln.
Amortization                         -61        -24       -38
Subtotal                              34     1,410       984         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         7,149.
Capital Grants                         -          -         -          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                   -130       -151        10        Total outstanding & disbursed
Other items n.e.i                       48        -69       388
Increase in Reserves (+)              -672    -2,357    3,362          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-/
Gross Reserves (end year)                                                                                      %
Net Reserves (end year)              4,707      2,350    5,712
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed          1.7
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                              Total outstanding & disbursed
of which:  Petroleum               199        275      343
Exports
of which:  Petroleum           10,963      8,505   16,877          IBRD/IDA LENDING (Merch 31, 1981) (Mill son-s$
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                             IBRD    IDA
1976:  N1.00 = US$1.60                                                   Outstanding  & Disbursed            526.2   37.3
1977:  N1.00 = US$1.55                                                   Undisbursed2/                       618.2    -
1978:  N1.00 = US$1.57                                                   Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   10144.4   37.3
1979:  N1.OO = US$1.66
1980:  N1.00 = US$1.81
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ Excluding Ekiti-Akoko ADP ($32.5) and Oyo Nocth ADP ($28.0) loans which are not yet effective.
Not Available
April 1981



- 23 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of Mfarch 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                                           US$ million
Credit                                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower         Purpose                                Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                             479.6    35.3
838       1972     Nigeria        Roads                                   26.3               6.2
929       1973     Nigeria        Education                               54.0              3-.4
1045       1974      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                              20.0               2.9
1091       1975      Nigeria       Livestock                               21.0              12.0
1092       1975      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Funtua                      29.0                0.7
1099       1975    Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Gusau                       19.0               0.4
1103       1975     Nigeria        Rice Dev.                               17.5               5.7
1164       1975      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Gombe                       21.0               0.3
1183       1975      Nigeria       M.W. State Oil Palm                     29.5              20.9
1191       1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm                     19.0              14.6
1192       1976      Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm                       17.0              11.8
1454       1977      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Lafia                       27.0              12.5
1455       1977      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Ayangba                     35.0              17.7
1591       1978      Nigeria       Nuc.Est. Smallholder Oil                30.0              25.0
1597       1978      NIDB          Industrial Dev.                         60.0              48.6
1667       1979    Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Bida                        23.0              20.4
1668       1979    Nigeria         Agric. Dev. Ilorin                      27.0              22.9
1679       1979      Nigeria       Forestry                                31.0              29,5
1711       1979      Nigeria       Water Supply - Kaduna                   92.0               91.4
1719       1979      Nigeria       Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.               9.0                9.0
1766       1980    NEPA            Power - Lagos                          100. 0            100.0
1767       1980    Nigeria         Urban Dev. - Bauchi                     17.8               17.3
*1838        1980    Nigeria        Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North                 28.1               28.1
*1854        1980    Nigeria        Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko               32.5               32.5
1883       1980    Nigeria         Roads                                  108.0             108.0
Total                                              1,373.2   35.3    678.7
Of which has been repaid                              168.3    2-6
Total outstanding                                   1,204.9   32.7
Amount sold                      16.8
Of which has been repaid         16.8                   1.0
**Total now held by Bank & IDA                        1,204.9   32.7
Total undisbursed                                                       678.7
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                               Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.                    Textile Mfg.           1.0      0.6       1.6
1970
1964          Nigeria Industrial                  Dev. Fin. Co.                   1.4        1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973          Funtua Cottonseed                   Veg. Oil                1.6                1.6
Crushing Ltd.                       Crushing
1973          Nigerian Aluminum                   Aluminum                1.0     0.3        1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                      Processing
1974          Lafiagi Sugar                       Sugar                           0.1        0.1
Estates
1980          NTMf                                Textiles                6.2     0.7        6.9
1981          Ikeja Hotel                         Tourism                 7.6     2.3        9.9
Total Gross Commitments                                    17.4     5.4       22.8
Less cancellations                                        0.4               0.4
Less sold and repaid                                      2,3    1.6         3.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          14.7     3.8       18.5
Undisbursed                                                 9.9      2.3      12.2
* Not yet effective
** Prior to exchange rate adjustments



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project has been completed, and final reimbursement claims
concerning the training of maintenance technicians and preparatory work
for the Sixth Highway Project are currently being processed by the Federal
Ministry of Works. As soon as these claims have been processed by the Bank,
any amounts undisbursed will be cancelled.
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  USS54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold. In FY79,
the scope of the project was reduced and the closing date was extended.
Project management has since then improved, but project progress is behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states.   Loan recovery performance has however surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program" has been initiated, and
updating and reconciliation of farmer loan records has been completed. A
project completion report is being prepared.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has improved. The project is now under
good management which has overcome most of the initial problems. Supporting
services are better organized, and credit is now being effectively channeled
through NACB.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976,
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation has been satisfactory with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates. An expanded second stage project to cover the
remainder of Kaduna State has been appraised, but its further processing is
unscheduled due to political problems within Kadtna State.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been completed with satisfactory support from
both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response has been good, and
appraisal objectives have been met and in some cases exceeded. A second
phase project to cover the remainder of Sokoto State has been appraised.
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31,1982
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations.  The Bank has withdrawn from
the project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. The remaining funds set
aside for Cross River State will be reallocated to project components in
Anambra and Imo States, where physical project progress and counterpart
funding are more satisfactory, and development is accelerating.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29.
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments and is virtually complete. A project
completion report is being prepared. The whole of Bauchi State will be served
by a second-stage project for which a loan was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 30, 1981.



- 26 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:
October 17, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition, and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal tar-
gets for the nucleus estate and smallholder components have not been met
due to delays in land acquisition as well as continuing financial and
managerial problems. The monitoring component has not been fully effective
because of staffing difficulties. The Bank has advised the Federal Govern-
ment that it will have no alternative but to formally halt disbursement
under the Loan in case no remedial action is taken by May 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation
of new states and problems with staffing. Even though appraisal planting
targets have not been met and the construction of palm oil mills has been
delayed, the project has the best potential for smallholder oil palm
development, and planting rates are now at an acceptable level. The palm oil
mill is currently being designed.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face financial difficul-
ties, and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate compo-
nent, land acquisition, management, and funding problems have delayed pro-
gress. Plantings are in poor condition and processing facilities are in-
adequate. Although actions to resolve these problems have been initiated by
the State Government, corrective action so far has been insufficient. Con-
sequently, the Bank suspended disbursements under the Loan as of February 28,
1981 until further notice.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension and training. However, overall project progress is
satisfactory.



- 27 -                               AiNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  USA35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project continues to improve with satisfactory support from
the Federal and State Governments. The most significant improvement is
the introduction of the Training and Visit system, which has enhanced the
impact of the extension services. Farmer participation and physical pro-
ject progress is good. Disbursements are also proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm
Project: US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978;
Effective Date:  July 10, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding
completion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and
Federal and State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, and
earlier funding problems have been overcome. The smallholder component
faces some managerial difficulties.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60
million Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date:
October 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
About 70 percent of the loan has been committed and about 12 percent
disbursed. Both are less than expected at the time of appraisal owing to
the investment climate in 1978/79 which was affected very much by tie un-
certainties surrounding the change in government in late-1979. The invest-
ment climate has recently improved considerably, however, and it is expected
that the Loan will be fully committed before the end of this year.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan of
October 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily. However, the Ogun State
component is being affected by inadequate state financing.



- 28 -                            ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan
of July 16, 1979; Effective Date: July 22, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation was delayed by some initial procurement
problems which have now been resolved. Although the Kaduna State Water Board
proposed a tariff increase in late-1980, it has not yet been approved by the
State Government.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; Effective
Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Management consultants are in the field, and project implementation
has been initiated.
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: July 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project:  US$17.8 million Loan of
February 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the initial stages, project progress was impaired by management
and staffing problems. As a result of efforts by the Bauchi State authorities
to resolve these problems, the situation has already improved substantially.
Civil works have begun and an accelerated implementation schedule has been
introduced that will permit the project to be completed within the time span
envisaged at appraisal. Technical assistance to the FMBN is proceeding
well and has already resulted in better management and in an improved planning
and project implementation capability.
Loan No. 1838-UNI   Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project:  US$28.0
million Loan of August 25, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
The Oyo State Government is making good progress toward meeting the
effectiveness conditions.
Loan No. 1854-UNI   Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project:  US$32.5
million Loan of December 15, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The Ondo State Government is making good progress toward meeting the
effectiveness conditions.



- 29 -                           ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Loan No. 1883-UNI   Sixth Highway Project:  US$108 million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Contracts for the road strengthening works, the feasibility study
of the Calabar-Ikom road, and the training of maintenance technicians have
been awarded, and the project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial
stages.
Loan No. 1981-UNI   Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project:  $132
million Loan; not yet signed
Loan No. 1982-UNI   Kano Agricultural Development Project:  $142 million
Loan; not yet signed



- 30 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 2 years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Anambra State Water
Corporation with assistance from consultants and Bank staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: March 1979
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: May 1979
(e) Date of departure of the appraisal mission: December 1979.
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: January 23, 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: December 31, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Federal Government
and Anambra State Government (ANSG) and subloan agreements between
ANSG and the Anambra State Water Corporation (ASWC) and the Onitsha
Local Government (OLG) (Condition of Effectiveness; paras. 39 and 53).
(b) OLG to furnish Bank with an approved layout plan for Okpoko (Condi-
tion of Disbursement for Okpoko component; para. 48);
(c)  ANSG to restore original composition of Board of Directors represen-
ting both public and private interests (para. 25);
(d)  ANSG to approve new job classifications and salaries for ASWC by
June 30, 1982 (para. 36);
(e)  ASWC to appoint a project manager, commercial adviser, chief
training officer, and an electrical and mechanical superintendent
by September 30, 1981 (para. 36);
(f) OLG to appoint a Town Treasurer and a Sanitation Department Manager
and contract three technical experts (para. 37);



- 31 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) ANSG to provide all funds required to finance the ASWC and OLG
components, including ASWC operating shortfalls (para. 40);
(h) ASWC to adjust tariffs in Onitsha starting in 1982 to cover not
less than the sum of its operating expenditures, debt service,
and 23 percent of average capital expenditures of the Onitsha zone
and of any other zones agreed by the Bank and ASWC (para. 40);
(i) ASWC to deposit all revenues generated in the Onitsha zone in a
commercial bank account (para. 40);
(j) ASWC to refrain from additional debt unless the internal cash
generation of the Onitsha zone covers future debt service 1.5
times (para. 40); and
(k) OLG to make budget provisions for operation, maintenance, and debt
service of sanitation component (para. 40).






IBRD 15072
NIGERIA  
ANAMBRA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                        
IENDEL  %  .-/-///                  _             A                                                             Onitsha Water Supply Component
rArE                                                                                                                                                                                                         r    r. \
GRA]                                                                                                                              4 4#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~~~~ 2
tt aDX < /-- // j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERSo                                                                                                                     t0 20 S0t ,zl*2.0,7
f:                        L                        ;                        t                       n                       p                      <                    ,         N N D 
NDA1                                                  /                        Ps       Ne Demarcation Lins
-ME L l  , |  Distribution Sysm, Primary Mains (mm)
CAMP                                                                                0    G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.rasnd Proram 1980
~~:  D f  z2 ;'| S '  g:;  I   \                  :         L/          :tAX        <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   \                          O    Boreholes,UnderConosoretolrucUderContrutio
A    Treatment Plant
C /)       TN OffA /ro besetyrd /n fePydf _f // bt (mo6dho/s rpt f                                                                              h   hsbemAbf he WvdE-*s st ff emhsiveh fv h,ssnv.swrfv.ro0rri iuuue*saiiou,sorr vrsssrmm
stir. , .'ls it \on  if S500m,3.a .   Te,tior y M .,s   0,
surmaDi s,ib.i..Syste, rmayMa



