Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23552 LV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.03 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
FOR A
HOUSING PROJECT
April 25, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Unit
Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1 February 2002)
Currency Unit = Lats (LVL)
LVL 0.63492 = US$1.00
USS1.5750 = LVL 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
FMS                  Financial Management Specialist
FSU                  Former Soviet Union
GEF                  Global Environment Facility
HOA                  Homeowners Association
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
LTV                  Loan to Value
MEPRD                Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
MGA                  Master Guarantee Agreements
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD                 Policy and Human Resources Development
PFI                  Participating Financial Institutions
SA                   Special Account
SOE                  Statement of Expenses
SOGI                 Statement of Guarantees Issued
SRA                  Special Reserve Account
TU                   Technical Unit, Office of the Minister for Special Assignments
with International Financial Agencies
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Michael F. Carter
Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi
Sector Manager:  Margret Thalwitz/Sumter Lee Travers
Task Team Leader:   Robert M. Buckley



LATVIA
HOUSING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      6
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                             12
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 18



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     19
2. Critical risks                                                                     19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     20
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           20
2. Other                                                                              20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        20
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         28
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             29
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       32
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   38
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  39
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            40
MAP(S)
IBRD 30692



LATVIA
HOUSING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Infrastructure and Energy Unit
Date: April 25, 2002                              Team Leader: Robert M. Buckley
Country Manager/Director: Michael F. Carter       Sector Manager: Sumter Lee Travers
Project ID: P074410                               Sector(s): FY - Other Finance, UH - Urban Housing
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data                                 --
[Xj Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant     1 Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $2.0 Million
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: OI Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Commitment fee:                                 Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the lollowing repayment method (choose one):
[   Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (USSm):.   Source   '                        Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                       0.80           0.00          0.80
IBRD                                                           2.03           0.00          2.03
Total:                                                         2.83           0.00          2.83
Borrower: LATVIA
Responsible agency: MIN. OF ENV PROTECTION & REGIONAL DEV'T.
Address: 25 Peldu Street, Riga, LV-1494, Latvia
Contact Person: Vija Geme
Tel: (371) 702-6461          Fax: (371) 782-0442            Email: house@varan.gov.lv
Other Agency(ies):
Office of the Minister for Special Assignments for Cooperation with Intemational Financial Agencies
Address: 1 Smilsu Street, Riga LV-1919, Latvia
Contact Person: Roberts Zile
Tel: (371) 709-5690          Fax: (371) 709-5693            Email: Roberts.Zile@if.gov.lv
The Technical Unit
Address: 1/4 Smilsu Street, Riga, LV-1919, Latvia
Contact Person: Aivis Reinholds
Tel: (371) 722-9886          Fax: (371) 722-2537            Email: tuwbsar@Latnet.L.v



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
;   FY -:- -02 -       2003    -2004.-     2005              .         =
Annual     0.53       0.70      0.70      0.10
Cumulative     0.53      1.23      1.93      2.03
Project implementation period: FY 2002 - FY 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 08/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
oa; PRO Fl F_. M  2O
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectiive: (see Annex 1)
The project will introduce households, housing associations, and financial institutions to what, for
Latvia, would be new financial mechanisms for housing finance. The objective of the project is to determine
whether qualified households, housing associations, and financial institutions will use the new financial
mechanisms to finance high return investments that currently are not funded by private lenders. Based on
the results of the implementation, the project will also attempt to determine the least intrusive and
lowest-cost way for the government to proceed.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
The context for the key performance indicators is whether or not there is sufficient demand for the
new products, when they are offered at market prices, which permit them to be supplied on a profitable
private-sector basis. In principle this will be based on assessing the satisfaction of the beneficiaries and the
financial institutions (both participating financial institutions (PFIs) and nonparticipants). In evaluating
satisfaction the indicators will consider: (a) demand and supply for each of the products, and the factors
that influence this demand and supply; (b) cost recovery and profitability for each of the products offered.
The key performance indicators are:
1. Increasing demand for the three financial products as evidenced by the number, value, and trend of
applications received and transactions approved;
2. Satisfaction of beneficiaries;
* low down payment
*   reverse mortgage (includes improved physical quality and reduced operating expenses)
*   HOAs (includes improved physical quality and reduced operating expenses)
3. Low default rates by product;
4. Satisfaction of financial institutions at end of project (includes continued willingness of PFIs to
support sales of the guarantee products and willingness of nonparticipating financial institutions to
introduce or use similar products);
5. Willingness of financial institutions to provide rehabilitation and maintenance loans in future to
HOAs without guarantees.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 23610-LV Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/25/2002
The project is included in the CAS and it will assist the government in its effort to improve and
better target housing related social assistance policy so that this encourages greater private sector
participation thus allowing the public sector to reduce its decision-making role in resource requirements. It
will be carried out by supporting improvements to the institutional framework and the development of more
efficient housing finance in Lat-via. In addition the project will address the issue of improving the capacity
of low income households to pay for municipal services by improvement of energy efficiency of housing
that will reduce the serious burden of utility costs on these households. It will also enhance private sector
- 3 -



development by increasing the private role in housing and housing finance, and improve the quality and
delivery of housing and utility services in the newly privatized housing stock.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
Latvia has created a well-functioning, largely privately-owned financial system; it has privatized
most economic activity; and most importantly, it has developed a stable, low inflation, growing economy.
However, until recently, it has lagged behind in the process of privatization of housing. It is now making
considerable progress in this area as well. As of the end of March 2001 68 percent of housing units have
been privatized. This slower start in privatization has meant that Latvia is only now beginning to shift
towards a market-based housing delivery system, and as a result, the housing sector is among the least
efficient in the economy. This inefficiency, in turn, creates a number of broader public policy problems
which the project and the proposed follow-up project address.
First, incentives have not yet been established for private management of even the privatized
housing stock, with the result that high return energy-efficiency investments are not made. For example, it
is estimated that only about 5 percent of the housing stock is now maintained by homeowners' associations
established in the multi-apartment buildings by new apartment owners. Municipal maintenance is
inefficient, it involves both cross-building and cross-sector (housing maintenance and utilities) subsidies.
As a result, a large portion of the country's wealth - housing - continues to deteriorate and remains
extremely energy inefficient. This inefficiency imposes unnecessary pressure on households' incomes (17
percent of households' expenditures are on utilities), and correspondingly, on need for public assistance.
Second, the inefficient use of housing wealth possessed by elderly population in Latvia reduces
their welfare. The share of elderly people in the population of Latvia is one of the largest in the world (21
percent of the total population is above 60 and many of them are poor), and correspondingly public pension
expenses are high, more than 10 percent of GDP. In most cases even though the income of these people is
low, they often have wealth in the form of privatized or restituted housing, the value of which is frequently
10 times their income. However, because these units were just given away, at present these assets are
effectively 100 percent equity financed. Allowing the elderly new owners to reduce their equity in their
housing would provide them with the possibility of improving their housing, sometimes alleviating poverty,
and generally being able to protect them from disruptions in their current income.
The third policy concem relating to the form and availability of financing for housing has to do
with the higher costs it imposes on those who did not benefit from privatization. While the private banking
sector is well developed and the mortgage loan portfolio is almost doubling every year during the last years,
prudent banking practice (down-payment requirements remain as high as 40-50 percent of the actual
purchasing price of the housing) provides limited possibilities for obtaining housing, particularly for the
first-time home buyers such as young families and households in restituted buildings. This heavy savings
requirement is particularly important considering Latvia's demographic situation (during the last 8 years,
Latvia has had a negative natural growth of population), and increasing availability of opportunities for the
young and highly educated people outside of the country.
Thus, while a well-functioning financial sector is now emerging, under present circumstances
problems remain: first, the linkages between investments in housing rehabilitation and the financial sector
are weak. Even established HOAs are unable to undertake any large investments in their buildings due to
lack of access to financing caused by inexperience of the banking sector in non-collateralized lending;
- 4 -



second, the large portion of the population which is elderly is unable to access their savings; and finally,
those who did not benefit from rirvatization face much higher housing costs.
Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Danish technical assistance will be provided directly to the Government of Latvia in parallel and in
close cooperation with the World Bank, and will be aimed at public education and provision of the
necessary advice and assistance in management of multi-apartment buildings. This effort will focus on
encouraging private individuals to take over the management of their property, i.e. multi-apartment
buildings. The project at the same time will attempt to introduce the private sector in Latvia to different
innovative financial instruments to address the following issues in the housing sector in Latvia:
(a) lack of financing for high returm capital investments in multi-apartment buildings (homeowners'
associations);
(b) lack of possibilities for people to utilize their wealth more efficiently (elderly population); and
(c) limited accessibility to financing for housing for average households.
Government strategy
To develop and implement a strategy for the housing sector the Government of Latvia has
convened an Inter-Ministerial Working Group for Establishment of Mortgage Lending, which operates
under the direction of the Ministry of Finance. While initially the main focus of the Working Group was
development of mortgage lending, the scope of work has broadened significantly and concentrates on
development of the housing sector as a whole. The Working Group serves as a facilitator for the
development of the necessary policy, legal and regulatory framework for the housing and housing finance
sectors. The government has also requested World Bank and Danish assistance to provide assistance to the
development of this sectoral strategy.
Over the longer term, t)ie government is particularly interested in improving its housing assistance
policy, and reducing the adverse effects that public sector ownership has on private housing decisions. The
public sector's ability to address these concems will be considerably improved after the private sector gets
more actively involved in addiessing those housing sector issues where it has a comparative advantage
(such as capital investments in multi-apartment buildings). Then, as is the case in developed market
economies, the government would be able to reform its assistance policy and mechanisms and reduce its
role more efficiently. Therefote, it was decided that housing assistance issues would be addressed in
continued dialogue and possibly a follow-up project with the World Bank.
- 5 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The objective of the project is to determine whether qualified households, housing associations, and
financial institutions will use the new financial mechanisms to finance high return investments that
currently are not funded by private lenders. The project will test whether there is sufficient demand to
ensure that the proposed guarantees can be provided on a full cost recovery basis and, hence, could
effectively be taken over by the private sector. Based on these results further steps will be evaluated,
including the option of continuation of the government's involvement, if the project proves that such
instruments are not viable on fully private basis. This exercise involves determining: (a) what design
modifications, if any, are required for the guarantees to be able to address sector issues in Latvia while
assuring cost recovery; (b) what is the level of demand for such instruments from households, housing
associations, and financial institutions at market prices, particularly in the absence of subsidy schemes; (c)
how do the costs of such guarantees compare with various subsidy programs; (d) how does the
vulnerability and welfare of some of the beneficiary groups - i.e., the elderly and first-time home buyers -
change as a result of the instruments; and (e) is the enforcement of the existing legal framework satisfactory
for efficient operation of the proposed credit enhancements on the private market basis as is expected.
Monitoring of these issues will take place via regular communication between the Technical Unit
(TU) established by the Government of Latvia to implement World Bank supported projects (see Project
Description) and the World Bank, and the TU quarterly reports. It will also be discussed and considered in
more detail during the Project's midterm and completion reviews. In addition, during project supervision,
efforts will be made to work with other donors and private financial institutions to extend the financial
innovations introduced by the project to other uses than those defined by the Bank's productive purposes
requirements. In particular, allowing low down-payment loans to finance existing housing units or
permitting low-income elderly borrowers to use the proceeds of the loans to finance basic consumption
needs, would be productive ways to extend the innovations to needy lower-income families.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
D Economic     [O Technical     LI Social       O Participation
Z Financial     1 Institutional  C Environmental C Other
Financial. The project will test whether guarantees can be profitably provided at sufficiently low
costs so that private individuals-owners, associations, and bankers will be able to exploit the higher retums
from maintaining and investing in housing. At the same time, the prices charged must be high enough for
the products to be offered on a sustainable basis. By sharing risks with the private sector, the project would
encourage greater private sector involvement and learning during the period when the public sector will be
under increased pressure to provide subsidies, and the private sector is unwilling to become involved
without partial sharing of risks.
Institutional. The Govemment of Latvia's sector strategy is to expand private sector involvement so
that a better-targeted, more transparent and less regressive public role can be established. The project will
attempt to help set the stage for this re-targeting. It will encourage the disengagement of the public sector
by helping with the development of more effective decision-making mechanisms in the newly-formed
homeowner's associations, and by facilitating the access of these institutions and moderate income
households to private finance.
-6 -



C. Project Description Sujmmary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will provide a $2 million Bank loan to back-stop guarantees provided by the Borrower
to local financial institutions (commercial banks and/or insurance companies) under Master Guarantee
Agreements (MGA) to be signed by the Borrower and each individual participating financial institution
(PFI) with "no-objection" from the Bank. While the MGA will specify procedures for the issuance of such
guarantees and contractual obligations between the financial institution and the Borrower (for details,
please, see Operations Manual), individual guarantees issued under the umbrella of the MGA for individual
Housing Loans granted by the 1FIs would specify details of the individual guaranteed Housing loan and
procedures related to the Sub-borrowers.
The Project will be implemented and Guarantees administered by the Technical UJnit operating
under supervision of the Office of the Minister for Special Assignments for Cooperation withi International
Financial Agencies (MSA for CIFA). The guarantees would be offered to PFIs at prices that would ensure
full cost recovery (for details, please, see E.2). Guarantee premiums will be reviewed and agreed upon by
the Borrower and the World Eank at least annually. Minimum premiums for the initial period will be
agreed upon during negotiations. Housing Loan underwriting, administration and foreclosure will be
delegated to the eligible lenders (for detailed criteria, please, see Operations Manual). The experience with
these guarantees would be used to develop an exit strategy for the government's encouragement of the
private sector. At the end of the implementation of the project, the Borrower will undertake a study of the
experience of these guarantee operations that will focus on determining the least intrusive and lowest-cost
way for the Borrower to proceed.
The following three types of guarantees will be offered under this project:
Individual-Based Mortgage Lending
Component 1: Guarantees for low down-payment housing loans
Under this component nuarantees will be provided to the private financial institutions for housing
loans secured by mortgages either for capital investments in the housing unit (home improvement loan) or
for purchasing of new housing, which is defined as housing built not earlier than two years prior to signing
the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower. Guarantees for both types of Housing Loans
would be structured so that homeowners would be required to contribute at least 10 percent of house value,
with lenders providing loans of up to 90 percent of house value. The TU would guarantee the repayment of
loan amounts above 70 percent of the house value. The only difference between the two types of Housing
Loans is that home improvement loans would be secured by second mortgages while home purchase loans
would be components of a single mortgage.
Home improvement loans would be available only for those households who have exhausted the
borrowing capacity of the pledged housing, i.e. that the housing has been obtained by a mortgage loan for
the maximum loan to value ratio acceptable to the lender based on general business practice, which
currently is 70 - 75 percent. If there is no mortgage on the housing and the owner would like to borrow for
home improvement purposes, he/she would be able to obtain a loan from the PFI without the guarantee as a
general business practice. The guaranteed home improvement loans would be separate loans secured by
second mortgages on property up to the maximum total loan to value ratio of all mortgages of 90 percent.
- 7 -



Such loans would be provided for capital improvements of the housing unit (defined in the Operations
Manual) such as insulation and other energy efficiency measures, renovation of roofs and walls,
installation/replacement of electric wiring, water/sewage system and similar investments.
Home purchase loans would be provided for lowering the down-payment required by the
commercial banks. The initial risk that is generally accepted by the banking sector (currently 70 - 75
percent) will be the responsibility of the eligible lenders. The TU would provide a guarantee for purchase of
qualified housing for the portion of the loan exceeding the amount provided by the bank based on 70
percent loan to value ratio (LTV). In both cases, guarantees would be valid for a period until the LTV
ratio drops to 70 percent. The guarantee would be effective only after foreclosure and recovery of the debt
and it would cover the bank losses up to the amount equal to 20 percent of the initial appraisal value of the
housing.
Loans to the eligible participants would be disbursed by the private commercial banks on market
terms. Underwriting, administration, and foreclosure will be the responsibility of the eligible lenders.
World Bank funds would be disbursed against issued guarantees in a ratio determined by the
Borrower based on the recommendation of the Financial Supervisory Agency. These funds would allow
leverage of commercial bank lending over the amount of the World Bank's support.
Component 2: Guarantees for reverse mortgages to elderly
Under this component the Borrower will provide guarantees to financial institutions (banks or
insurance companies) that would issue reverse mortgage loans to the elderly for home improvements as
defined under Component I or as the elderly person's contribution to investments as defined under
Component 3. Home improvement could be undertaken either in the elderly person's housing unit or in the
common areas of the multi-apartment building where the person's unit is located and for which the person is
obligated to make its contribution. The key parameters of the reverse mortgage loans are - payments are
made by the financial institution to the elderly against the mortgage on the elderly person's property and the
loan consisting of both principal paid out by the commercial bank and the accumulated interest is repaid to
the commercial bank when the person leaves the property (due to mortality or moving to another residence)
from the proceeds of the sale of the property or by the heirs. Such transactions can easily be misunderstood
by the elderly, not only in Latvia, but also in developed economies such as US, so that the private sector,
by itself, is often not able to provide the necessary trust that the transaction is fair. Therefore, along with
providing partial guarantees the Borrower will make sure that extensive assistance and advice will be
provided to the elderly population primarily through the Association of Pensioners and other relevant
NGOs.
The specific details on ratios of risk sharing will be determined during the negotiations with the
private financial institutions. The Bank funds will be disbursed against issued guarantees in accordance
with the reserve requirements to be set by the Borrower.
Non-Mortgage Lending and Institutional Development
Component 3 - Guarantees for common area borrowing
Under this component, guarantees will be provided by the Borrower to the commercial banks that
would grant loan to HOAs for specific investment projects for capital improvement of buildings' common
areas. Such investment projects would include energy efficiency measures, installation of heat sub-stations,
- 8 -



replacement of wiring, water and sewage systems, renovation of roofs and other capital improvements. This
instrument is similar to two IFC-supported projects in Hungary, i.e., Energy Efficiency Co-Finance
Programs 1 and 2, that also have provide credit enhancements for energy investments for multi-family
residential heating investments. However, in Latvia's less developed financial sector the private sector's
involvement in the sector is just beginning. Hence, at the initial stages, this type of support is being
encouraged by the public sector in a pilot/learning process.
The Borrower will provide guarantees on a co-insurance basis. The banks would, for example, be
asked to take the initial risk exposure of 30 - 50 percent of the loan value, while the guarantee would, again
like the IFC projects in Hungar), cover the subsequent and larger risk. Like the other components, Bank
funds would be disbursed to back-stop the guarantees issued by the Borrower with the reserve ratio to be
determined by the Borrower. Discussions with a number of commercial banks indicated broad interest in
expanding their lending to households on a non-collateralized basis for such purposes with support of
guarantees. Such lending by b2anks would leverage World Bank funds with private bank linancing and
beneficiary cofmancing.
The Danish Technical Assistance in cooperation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection
and Regional Development (NIEPRD) of Latvia will provide advice and information on property
management as well as information about energy efficiency as they are related to component 3.
The Operations Manual, agreed upon during negotiations, provides for a detailed description of the
products, project implementation, responsibilities of parties, eligibility requirements, etc. Any material
changes in the Operations Manual will be made in agreement between the Borrower and the World Bank.
Component 4: Institutional strengthening and Borrower studies
This component refers to the institutional strengthening aspects of the continuing development of
the TU to discharge its role as a financial services provider. It also includes both the monitoring and
evaluation activities that the TU[ will undertake as part of the learning process, (see the Monitoring and
Evaluation section below for a description of these) as well as the government study upon closing of the
project. The study will attempt 1:o determine the best exit strategy for the project based on the experience
during the project's implementation and it will focus on determining the least intrusive and lowest-cost way
for the Borrower to proceed. An underlying hypothesis of this study would be determining whether the
financial market imperfections, which motivate the government's interventions, have been eliminated. If so,
the rationales for continued government involvement would no longer exist and the exit strategy should be
either sale of the guarantee portfolios to the private sector or gradual ceasing of operations. If it is,
however, determined that private sector is unable to undertake any of these operations fully on its own, that
is, explaining why the imperfections have not been eliminated, recommendations will be developed on the
most efficient way for the Borrower to proceed. In other words, the study would focus on how a sunset on
the government's role could be most effectively structured.
The estimated costs for this component is $0.8 million, which will be covered by the Borrower as
its contribution.
-9-



''I: U~r -~ . ,  ..     ,      ,, ., _ Indicative      Bank-      0%Aof
-.-,7'' -  .  Comp1Ronenlt;~. - -  -  - t i t~4-Sector-'-       f --Cots 7  flnancng-- Bank--
-. 1. -   - .'xs- ,_ .-.~ --- - 2  - '  ;-- ':  .' .  ~ (US$M) A -T6talf- -(USSM)'-i ifinancing
Component 1: Credit enhancements  Urban Housing         0.76      26.9      0.76      37.8
for first-time home buyers
Component 2: Guarantees for reverse  Urban Housing      0.50      17.7      0.50      24.9
mortgages to elderly
Component 3: Guarantees for common Urban Housing        0.75      26.5      0.75      37.3
area borrowing
Component 4: Institutional       Institutional          0.80      28.3      0.00       0.0
Strengthening                    Development
Total Project Costs                    2.81      99.3      2.01      100.0
Front-end fee                     0.02       0.7      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                     2.83     100.0       2.01     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period is expected to be 36 months from 2001 to 2004.
Executing agencies. The MEPRD has the main responsibility for implementing the Borrower's
overall Housing Strategy, particularly with respect to policy and institutional capacity building issues as
well as public education and training. As such, the MEPRD will be responsible for the management and
administration of the Danish TA under Component 3, as well as coordinating the preparation of the larger
follow-up project that addresses policy reform issues under preparation financed from a PHRD grant.
The Implementing Agency for this project will be the TU. It will operate as an autonomous body
under the supervision of the Government. It has extensive experience from involvement in past and ongoing
World Bank projects. It will be responsible for the administration and coordination of project activities,
which will include: (a) implementation of the project; (b) development of annual work plan and budget; (c)
monitoring and reporting on project activities; (d) organization of training sessions on the proposed
financial instruments; and (e) management of funds, accounting and reporting to the Borrower and the
World Bank. Detailed description of the TU's duties is included in the Project Operations Manual to be
approved by the appropriate Government authority and the World Bank.
The TU will carry out an evaluation of the potential participating financial institutions (PFIs) and
preparation of the recommendations for their approval by the Ministry of Finance and "no-objection" by the
World Bank. The Ministry of Finance will sign Master Guarantee Agreements with approved PFIs with
"no-obejction" by the World Bank. The Housing Loans guaranteed by the Borrower will be reviewed and
guarantees administered by the TU.
The PFIs will act in a partnership arrangement with the TU. They will assist in the customer
research and development of the loan products by the active involvement of their retail banking staff,
"fine-tuning" of the loan products, market launch, market promotion, and product support. The results of
market research and product development achieved during the LIL will be shared among all participating
PFIs.
Financial Management. The TU will be responsible for the management of project funds and would
maintain the accounts for the project. A Financial Management Specialist (FMS) conducted a review of the
- 10 -



financial management systems of the TU, and found the systems adequate for the purpose of inplementing
the project. However, the FMS also prepared an action plan to strengthen the financial management
system before full project implementation is launched, which includes inter alia updating accounting
procedures and job descriptions, customization of the accounting software, development of computer
system for monitoring of guarantees and underlying loan portfolio. Details of the financial management
arrangements, disbursement, special account management and action plan are in Annex 6 and presented in
the project's Operations Manual. Project accounts, including Special Account and Special Reserve
Account, and financial statements of the TU, will be prepared by the TU and audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the World B3ank. In addition, the PFIs will provide the TU with its audit reports and
the TU will make them available to the Bank. Audit reports will be submitted to the World flank no later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Project coordination. Co-,ordination between the Project activities and other government initiatives
in the housing sector including legislative developments and policy guidance will take place via the
Inter-Ministerial Working Group for Establishment of Mortgage Lending. However, since the purpose of
the Working Group is to exchange information and opinions and develop governmental policies and
legislation in the housing sector., the TU will have no formal reporting obligation towards the Working
Group. The direct reporting responsibility of the TU will be to the MSA for CIFA and the Ministry of
Finance. The TU will also be responsible for day-to-day operational coordination of the project with the
MEPRD, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Welfare, MSA for CIFA, Danish TA and other related parties.
For project purposes a separate sub-group has been established under the Working Group to discuss
project-related issues as needed, and to inform different institutions about progress and issues on a regular
basis.
Procurement. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6. Bank funds will be used to
back stop guarantees issued by the TU on a portion of commercial bank loans (financed from their own
resources) to homeowner's associations, home buyers and the elderly, all of which are private sector
operators and as such select contracting parties with due attention to economy and efficiency. Thus, the
project will not involve procurement as has been the case in similar Bank operations in Albania (Private
Industry Recovery Project) and lTunisia (Export Development Project).
Disbursement. As is the case for the Export Development Project in Tunisia, Private Industry
Recovery Project in Albania, and Emergency Industrial Restart Project in Bosnia-Herzegovina, the trigger
for disbursement of the Bank Loan proceeds is guarantee issuance. For the purposes of disbursements from
the Word Bank Loan Account to SA and/or SRA no detailed tracking of flows of actual eventual use of
Bank Loan proceeds through the borrower's economy will be made and therefore, the Bank's normal
supporting documentation requirements (receipt of invoices, bills, contracts., etc) are not relevant. Funds
disbursed to the Borrower to baclc-stop a guarantee and which are not being called during the lifetime of the
guarantee shall be used as revolving funds in accordance with the procedures laid out in the Project
Operations Manual unless agreed differently between the Borrower and the Bank.
Disbursement documentation will be prepared by the TU and reviewed and approved by the State
Treasury which has an extensive experience in cash flow management for the World Bank projects.
Disbursement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6.
- 11 -



3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The three proposed guarantee products are new to the Latvian market and there are no "before" and
"after" situations to compare. Therefore, success will be demonstrated by a high level of satisfaction
among stakeholders, both PFIs and beneficiaries (see below). The evaluation must answer the question of
when/whether this innovation (the three new products) is ready to be scaled up from test products to full
private production and how it will relate to the proposed follow-up housing project. While assessing the
full impact of these new financial products will take time, the 3 years of the pilot should be sufficient to
infer whether or not there is a demand for the products and satisfaction with the products, and if not, why.
The Operations Manual outlines the Project's monitoring and evaluation activities in more detail.
The assessment of satisfaction will be carried out considering demand at two levels. First, at the
retail level by each of the three sets of target customers. Second, demand at the "wholesale" or industry
level for private sector financial institutions to offer the guarantee products similar to those provided by the
Borrower. Evidence of satisfaction will be based on the opinion of the beneficiaries, after purchase, as
measured by sample surveys and on the opinion of the PFIs and their willingness to continue selling the
products, as measured by discussions with each PFI (a census).
The TU, with the assistance of the PFIs, will have the main responsibility for collection of a set of
monitoring indicators and for developing a system for their quarterly collection, update, monitoring, and
analysis. Financial, market, and social information will be collected. The involvement of the PFIs is
critical. It will provide valuable information to them which will allow them to make informed decisions on
the future implementation of the similar products after completion of the project. The PFIs will provide
information on applications, approvals, and portfolio results and present data on transactions and feedback
from customers to the TU.
In addition to the on-going monitoring activities and reports described above the state of the project
will be reviewed and summarized at two points during its implementation. First is a mid-term review of
results, particularly satisfaction of PFIs and beneficiaries. Second is the final evaluation of the project
including the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). In the final evaluation financial reviews will focus
on the extent of demand for these products at market prices, the cost structure for these products and their
financial soundness. In addition, an analysis would be provided of the sorts of institutional changes,
capacity building efforts and changes in legal enforcement practices that are necessary for broad supply of
such enhancement services would be provided. Finally, an examination of the sensitivity of these kinds of
guarantees to economic shocks will be understood and estimated.
A Social Assessment (SA) will be undertaken as part of this project and in complement with the
project monitoring and evaluation activities. The SA is described in Section E 6.5 below. The sample
survey, drawn from customers, before the mid-term review will include questions relevant to the SA as well
as gauging satisfaction. A second survey, at the time of the final evaluation, will again examine social
issues and satisfaction. In order to measure impact on households over time this second survey will draw
on the same set of individuals as the first survey (a panel). The TU will administer one or more consulting
assignments to undertake the SA and the two surveys.
Lessons learned from the project will be discussed through workshops, stakeholder forums, and the
mid-term review. Lessons leamed will help feed into the preparation of a possible proposed follow-up
operation on housing reform - Phase II Housing Project. The full impact of this Project (LIL) and the
background studies for the possible Phase II Project, which will be financed from a PHRD grant, will take
place during the implementation of the LIL. Under the LIL, the assessment of risks and measures to
- 12 -



mitigate the impact of potential risks related to specific credit enhancement products will lead to improved
results, performance and institutional learning, and ultimately as complimentary inputs into the policy and
institutional alternatives to be considered under the broader Phase II Housing Project.
The TU will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation, and will report to the Bank through
quarterly progress reports. Areas of risk in the Project will be monitored through the quarterly reports by
the TU and during Bank supervision. Situations of high or substantial risk will be reported in the Project
supervision reports. The TU will ensure that project information has been consolidated in advance of the
mid-term review for use in the review. The TU will prepare the Borrower's contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph 13: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]l
O Cost benefit     NPV-US$ mnillion; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Because of the demand driven nature of the project, it is difficult to determine what will be the final
sub-projects implemented by the final beneficiaries. However, it is expected, based on the experience in
Lithuania, that the project will have a positive economic effect on its most direct beneficiaries - middle and
lower income Latvian families, and financial institutions - as well as the economy in general, most
immediately through energy savings. By building more credible links between private lenders and
privately-owned housing the project would also support the Borrower's objective of shifting the provision of
housing services from the public to the private sector. Such a shift would improve efficiency and enable
the public sector to concentrate oll reforming housing subsidy mechanisms and public assistance to those in
most need.
A sununary analysis of institutional profitability and sustainability as well as a review of what the
pilot implies about Borrower disengagement from the sector will be carried out within six months after the
project's closing date.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable'l
The project mainly concentrates on determining whether specific financial services can be provided
on a full cost recovery basis. Guarantee premiums to be charged to the beneficiaries will be estimated based
on the potential demand for the various products under various scenarios, and estimated per unit costs.
Specific reserve requirements wtill be determined to ensure consistency with Latvia's regulations on
provision of such guarantees and that the Borrower's risk exposure is limited to its initial contribution of $2
million. Based on estimates finamcial statements for the operations will be developed against which the
project's performance will be monitored, evaluated, and if necessary, revised. The income statements and
balance sheet will be integrated into a financial stress test model which will allow the Borrower and the
Bank to be assured that even wuder pessimistic macroeconomic scenarios the Borrower's risk exposure
- 13-



would be limited to its current capital contribution.
Full financial evaluation and analysis of the project and the underlying modeling that will be used
to forecast cost and premium structures will be carried out during the project's implementation. At the end
of the pilot, the Borrower will undertake a study that will focus on determining the exit strategy and the
least intrusive and lowest-cost way for the Borrower to proceed. The study will evaluate the possibilities of
the TU continuing operations on a self-financing basis, as well as develop a strategy for the full transfer of
the operations to the private sector if the pilot demonstrates that the products can be supplied on a
financially sustainable basis.
Fiscal Impact:
The immediate impact and the repayment of the proposed loan of $2 million on the budget of the
Borrower is negligible. Precise estimate of the benefits realized by the Borrower due to the proposed project
are impossible to estimate at this point. However, if the pilot is successful the project could reasonably be
expected to result in potentially large savings of public and private funds from lower utility costs. It could
also result in considerably increased efficiency of both the housing stock and the arrangement of household
savings. Finally, if successful, it should reduce the need for housing subsidies. For instance, if only 1
percent of pensioners participate in the program, that would mean that more than 5,000 families would be
able to access wealth that they cannot access now.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Not applicable.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The TU has extensive experience in implementation of World Bank projects. It was the project
implementation unit for the two other World Bank projects - Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring
and the Rural Development project. In addition, it is the administration unit for the Borrower for a PHRD
grant for a Phase II Housing Project as well as for the Danish - Latvian Mortgage Project. It has a well
established management structure. Internal procedures and functions were established for the
implementation of the Bank financial sector project and acconmmodate the specific needs of implementation
of this type of projects. It has accumulated knowledge and established good business reputation and
relationships with the financial sector as well as ministries and governmental institutions.
The staffing and skills of the TU are strong on accounting and finance. A professional accountant
knowledgeable of Bank procedures and requirements for disbursements and financial management will be
responsible for accounting and disbursement. However, to ensure adequate internal control procedures are
followed, the accountant will report directly to the TU Director. Details of the arrangements for internal
control will be included in the Operations Manual. The TU has been closely involved in the preparation of
the project and has an in-depth understanding of the issues as well as the proposed instruments. Additional
skills will be hired by the TU, if and as determined necessary. With technical assistance, from the
Netherlands, additional expertise will be provided, on an on-going basis if and as needed.
- 14 -



4.2 Project management:
Overall project management will be carried out by the TU Committee, which includes
representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional
Development and Ministry of Economy. The TU serves the role of the secretariat for the Committee and it
has the relevant experience from the previous World Bank project, where a similar project management
structure was established. For the purposes of learning and exchange of information, the Committee and the
TU will also provide informai:ion to the Inter-ministerial Working Group chaired by the Ministry of
Finance on a regular basis.
The TU is managed by the Director appointed by the Minister for Special Assignments for
Co-operation with Intemational Financial Agencies. For the preparation and implementation of this project
the TU has a core staff of two people that is experienced in implementation of the World Bank projects and
has been closely involved in the preparation of this project. Support staff - accountant and assistant - has
an extensive experience in implementation of the World Bank projects and prudent accounting procedures
and practices (for specific skills in regards of financial management see the respective chapter below). A
detailed assessment of needs for and adequacy of staff skills for the implementation of the project was
carried out during appraisal. Based on that the detailed action plan for strengthening of the TU capacity
was developed (see Annex 6).
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no procurement issues under this project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The TU has already handled two World Bank projects and is familiar with Bank requirements. It
has the necessary intemal stnrcture to ensure reasonably adequate intemal control. The disbursement
function is separated in the Treasury department. The Accountant will report directly to the Director of the
TU to obtain the signature for preparing and recording disbursements and expenditures. Disbursements
may be handled through Special Account (SA) and/or Special Reserve Account (SRA) based on Statements
of Expenditures-type spreadsheets (Statements of Guarantees Issued - SOGI). Financial management will
track disbursements and reconcile them with the balances in the escrow account:
(a) The TU will retain an accountant responsible for accounting statements, disbursement issues
and flow of funds, as well as a computerized financial management system, where all project
relevant data, can be stored, reproduced, analyzed and updated; intemal control system was
reviewed by the FMS during appraisal and determined to be adequate;
(b) The participating banks are and will be audited annually as under Latvian law requirements and
practices;
(c) Reporting requirements and formats appropriate to the LIL will be developed before the
implementation of the Project is launched.
The following are the audit requirement under the Project:
(a) Project account flows, including counterpart funds, and the SA and/or SRA will be annually
audited according to the Intemational Standards on Audit by an auditor approved by the World
Bank. There shall be one set of financial statements and auditor's opinion on all three
components of the project. The auditor will state in the audit report a separate opinion on the
use of the SOGI and the SA and/or SRA. The terms of reference for the audit will be reviewed
- 15 -



and agreed by the Bank by negotiations. A copy of the standard Bank terms of reference for
audit has been provided to the TU during appraisal and has been included in the Operations
Manual. It is customary in Latvia that the State Treasury, which handles World Bank
disbursements, hires an international auditor who audits all project accounts. Audit of Project
Financial Statements shall include Sources and Uses of Funds including counterpart funds, Uses
of Funds by Project Activity, Project Balance Sheet, Summary of Statement of Expenditures,
Special Account Statement and Special Reserve Account. The detailed scope of audit is
presented in the Operations Manual.
(b) Audit of the TU. The financial statement should include disclosure of "off balance sheet" items
(guarantee exposure). TU should perform monitoring of the guarantees and make provision
reflecting the possible risk of defaulting the loan. The auditor should check whether the risk is
adequately presented in TU financial statement.
(c) Audit of the participating financial institutions - PFIs will be required to provide audit reports
according to International Accounting and Auditing Standards. (this is normal requirements for
financial institutions in Latvia).
Financial management arrangements in the TU were reviewed by the FMS during appraisal and
determined to be adequate. FMS developed an action plan for strengthening financial management system
at the TU (see Annex 6), which was discussed and agreed upon with the TU. More detailed accounting
procedures are documented in the Annex 6 and the Operations Manual.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A recent review of the Latvian environmental legislation indicates that Latvia has a well developed
environmental assessment system. In the cases of construction and reconstruction, contractors performing
such works will be required to obtain all the necessary permits to carry out the works in accordance with
the legislation of Latvia. The participating financial institutions will be required to ensure that the contract
between the contractor and the sub-borrower requires the construction company to obtain all such permits.
Supervision of the compliance with the appropriate legal requirements will be performed by the respective
authorities as stipulated in the legislation of Latvia. A sample EMP will be prepared before project
effectiveness and will be attached to the Operational Manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of reccipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not Applicable.
- 16 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Initial project surveys an-id discussions have been undertaken with pensioners, commnercial banks,
building maintenance companies, and representatives of homeowners associations, which indicate that
demand for the proposed guaranmee instruments will materialize if structured properly. A social assessment
will be performed during the implementation of this project and in preparation for the possible follow up
project, including a housing demand study and a study of the effectiveness of the current housing subsidy
program. Within the frameworlc of project monitoring and evaluation (see the respective chapter above)
social reviews of the beneficiaries will be carried out focusing on how the products affect the welfare of the
target groups.
However, in addition, it is expected that the project will have a positive impact on a range of social
groups that will participate in the demonstration projects mainly in terms of improving their living
conditions. For instance, the project will afford a means of providing on-going counseling assistance to the
elderly which should also have beneficial effects. Though the project does not target the urban poor as a
group, it will deliver tangible benefits to low income households, particularly those squeezed by the
disproportionately high energy costs, and the elderly, as indicated by the Bank project in Lithuania. The
social impacts for the Bank-supported energy efficiency project in Lithuania have been well documented,
and along with the IFC-GEF vwork in Hungary, may provide important benchmarks of social attitudes
toward energy renovation in the region.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Homeowners' associations, the association of pensioners and commercial banks have been actively
involved in the project design. Their participation will continue during the implementation of the project,
monitoring and evaluation. Homeowners' associations and commercial banks have been instrumental in
defining project priorities and type of intervention. Their views on affordability aspects, capital
improvements as well as perceptions on housing quality and services, will define the scope of individual
projects and their financial feasibility. More fundamentally, however, the project supports a decidedly
demand-driven approach where stakeholders will have made ex ante decisions to purchase the guarantees
offered under the project. By purchasing or using the guarantees, stakeholders directly reveal how much
they value the new products. The public advisory and information campaign will introduce new processes
that would build capacity of the HOAs and other stakeholders up to a level where they will be able to make
informed decisions about participating in the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Project components have been designed and Operations Manual is being developed in close
cooperation with the Association of Homeowners' Associations, Association of Pensioners, and Union of
Local Governments. The Technical Unit as well as MEPRD will cooperate closely with these organizations
during the implementation of the project and will provide active assistance to the beneficiaries, monitor
progress and launch public information programs based on the experiences gained during this pilot project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The participating institltions - Borrower agencies, commercial banks, NGOs, and HOAs - will
have a very important facilitating role in raising public awareness, providing the necessary assistance to the
- 17-



potential beneficiaries in their decision making, training in the establishment of HOAs and the
dissemination of leaming experiences. Particular attention has been paid to ensure that appropriate links
between each level of the project's participants is established with particular emphasis on establishing an
effective grassroots-level network. The Association of Pensioners will provide extensive advice and
assistance to the elderly population in collaboration with the TU and the MEPRD (component 2). Special
public awareness and training program is being designed within the framework of the Danish Technical
Assistance, which among other activities envisages establishment of regional advisory centers and
organizing workshops and stakeholder forums (component 3).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Scope and methodology of social assessment to monitor the social impacts of the project was
agreed during negotiations with the Borrower, to be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of
Welfare, and the respective social welfare departments in the municipalities participating in the project. The
project will utilize participatory workshops and information sessions during preparation and
implementation to solicit the views of stakeholders and beneficiaries, based on which the project
implementation techniques would adjust accordingly. During the periodically planned workshops, training
sessions, homeowners and representatives of their associations, as well as representatives from the involved
national agencies, municipalities and participating commercial banks will be invited to discuss the project
rationale, exchange experiences and views based on its implementation design and progress.
The social assessment will use existing sources of data (including surveys by the Pensioner's
Association of its membership and by the TU of HOAs) and the results of the personal and social
information gained from product applications to formulate an initial profile of the beneficiary population.
Focus groups will be used to assist in identifying issues of importance. The sample survey, drawn from
customers, before the mid-term review will include questions relevant to the social assessment as well as
gauging satisfaction. A second survey, at the time of the final evaluation, will again examine social issues
and satisfaction. In order to measure impact on households over time this second survey will, to the extent
possible, draw on the same set of individuals as the first survey (a panel). In the evaluation of the project
the SA will examine on how the products affect the welfare of the target groups - i.e., home buyers using
low down payments, the elderly, and housing associations and their members.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 436)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 437)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 18 -



F. Sustainability and Rislks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the i7ailure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Concerted efforts of financial           N         Continuation of the established systematic
institutions to achieve financially                   dialogue and extensive engagement of the
sustainable mortgage lending practices,               financial institutions.
and stimulate further developmer,t of
housing markets and housing finance.
2. Willingness by elderly to request        H         Extensive explanatory and advisory work to be
reverse mortgages.                                    carried out by the Association of Pensioners to
provide the necessary assistance to elderly in
understanding the instrument.
3. Active involvement of Pensioners         M         Continuation of the established extensive
Association.                                          dialogue and cooperation with the Association
of Pensioners.
4. Trust in the financial instruments,      H         Assistance and advice to be provided to the
banking system, and legal remedies, if                beneficiaries via credible sources such as
required, by the PFIs and beneficiaries.              association of pensioners and advisory centers
(Danish TA).
5. HOAs are willing to borrow and/or        H         Broad public education and training program
accumulate funds for maintenance and                 implemented and assistance and advice provided
upgrading of common areas; willingness               to the HOAs by advisory centers (Danish TA);
by HOAs to initiate legal procedulres                 continuation of the established extensive
against recalcitrant payers.                          dialogue with the HOAs.
6. Housing authorities and courts. enforce  M         Continuation of the established systematic
legally binding and effective measures                dialogue and extensive engagement of the
against recalcitrant payers to HC1As.                 government and the key stakeholders.
From Components to Outputs
1. Willingness of PFIs to lend to the home  N         Continuation of the established extensive
buyers at high LTV ratios with partial                engagement of the financial institutions.
guarantees and cooperate with the TU.
2. Willingness of PFIs to adopt new         M         Continuation of the established extensive
approaches to mortgage finance such as                engagement of the financial institutions and
reverse mortgages with partial guarantees             systematic dialogue to clarify and demonstrate
and cooperate with the TU.                            the economic and financial viability of these
types of investments.
3. Willingness of PFIs to lend to HOAs on   N         Continuation of the established extensive
a non-collateralized basis for common                 engagement of the financial institutions.
- 19 -



area investments with partial guarantees
and cooperate with the TU.
4. Efficient implementation of the project,  M         Proceeding with LIL operation and continuation
timely intervention and adjustment, if                 of the extensive dialogue within the Bank and
needed.                                                with the government.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Signed Master Guarantee Agreement on providing guarantees under this project with at least one
participating financial institution.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Robert NI.  ck                   ,__umter Lee Travers                 Michael F. Carter
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Manager/Director
- 20 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
*  . .     ~     ~    ~    ~      *.. Datab CollectionlSt-~teg.  --
=-'.J;>,: F -  r      ~~'' Key.!Piirorrniance  .  ata           ral! ein -g rt'yl-
W1lie'rarchy,lof *bjec1tives  r. g  -'1ridicators"    ..; -   ; .i      rttl       IcI a Assumptlons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector lndicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Strengthening the macro  Reduced need for public  Central statistical agency  Govermment willingness to
economy and financial sector transfers to housing while  reports.              reduce ambiguity in public
and poverty reduction.     helping lo build the financial  Central Bank reports.  role in housing.
sector.                    Financial regulatory agency
Reduced burden of utility  reports.
costs by improving the energy
efficiency of housing.
2. Enhancing private sector  Increased private sector  Policy studies on development Efficient use of run down
development               involvement on improving the of a more effective regulatory, assets will benefit socially
efficiency with which housing institutional, and financial  dependent population.
assets are used.           framework for real estate
markets (occasional).      More residential real estate
Increasing trend towards  Government reports         finance is undertaken by
personal ownership of       ov' n 1)                 middle income Latvians than
housing.                   (occasional).             the baseline of prior reform.
Private insurers willing to
offer the guarantee products
or bankinig sector willing to
provide I he three new
financial products without
additional enhancements.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Expansion of the use of the  Number, value, and trend of  Central Bank and Financial  Products tested through the
new credit instruments by  applications received and  regulatory agency reports.  LIL are successful.
PFIs and beneficiaries, based  transactions approved.  Government reports.
on a proven model (from
LIL).
CAS updates.               Legal framework adequate for
large scale implementation.
- 21 -



RKeyPeiFormanc -    -lJataCollectlonStrategy:
| H  archy.of.Objectives .j       In'ictors          |                             Critidal Assumptions   |
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To determine whether       1. Increasing demand for the  For all financial products: TU  Project-developed
qualified households, housing three financial products as  quarterly reports and PFI  interventions are replicated on
associations, and financial  evidenced by the number,  monthly reports on lending  a wide scale.
institutions will use the new  value, and trend of    activities, as described under
financial mechanisms to    applications received and  Outputs (below). Bank      Saturation of the market is
finance high return        transactions approved.     supervision reports and    still some time away.
investments that currently are                        mid-term evaluation report.
not funded by private lenders.
2. Satisfaction of         Mid-term and final evaluation Project-developed
beneficiaries,             satisfaction surveys of    interventions are sustainable
* low down payment       beneficiaries, and polling of  over longer time frame than
* reverse mortgage       PFIs regarding satisfaction  has been tested in the project.
(includes improved     and willingness to continue
physical quality and   sales.                     PFIs are able to raise
reduced operating                                 financing to fund expansion
expenses)              Discussions at the end of the  of these products.
* HOAs (includes improved project with
physical quality and   non-participating private
reduced operating      insurance and banking
expenses).             companies to determine their
opinion of the project and
willingness to undertake such
business themselves.
3. Low default rates by
product.
4. Satisfaction of financial  Final report of the Social
institutions at end of project  Assessment.
(includes continued
willingness of PFIs to support Project Implementation
sales of the guarantee     Completion Report (ICR)
products and willingness of
non-participating financial
institutions to introduce or use
similar products).
5. Willingness of PFIs to  The government "Exit
provide rehabilitation and  Strategy" study will clarify
maintenance loans in future to public finance issues,
HOAs without guarantees.   distributional effects, and
ultimate responsibility for the
program if it proves popular
but not appropriate or viable
in the private sector.
For reverse mortgages: The
Pensioners Association will
assist in satisfaction surveys
of its members.
- 22 -



For HOAs: The TU will
re-inspect the sample of
buildings or properties which
were inspected earlier to
record the state of their
physical quality. Photographs
will be taken ("after") to allow
a comparison with earlier
"before" photographs.
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Low Down-Payment       At least two PFIs participate.  TU quarterly reports and  Concerted efforts of financial
Component                                            PFI monthly reports on     institutions to achieve
Guarantees have been                                 lending activities. These will financially sustainable
provided for low                                     include reports of business  mortgage lending practices,
down-payment housing loans                           activity as well as application  and stimulate further
(mortgages with loan-to-value                        forms received, including  development of housing
greater than 70%).                                   additional questions on social markets and housing finance.
PFIs have participated by                            issues.
providing access to mortgages
at market terms.
2. Reverse Mortgages For  At least one PFI participates.  TU quarterly reports and  Willingness by elderly to
Elderly Component                                    PFI monthly reports on     request reverse mortgages;
Guarantees have been                                 lending activities as described active involvement of the
provided for reverse                                 in #1 above.               Pensioners Association
mortgages.
PFIs have participated by                                                       Trust in the financial
making reverse mortgage                                                         instruments, banking system,
loans available to elderly                                                     and legal remedies if required
home owners.                                                                   (evidence of support for the
instrument by the NGOs and
willing participants)
3. Common Area Borrowing At least two PFIs participate  TU quarterly reports and  HOAs are willing to borrow
Component                                            PFI monthly reports on     for improvements.
Guarantees have been                                 lending activities as described
provided for common area                             in #1 above.
borrowing (guarantee for
rehabilitation and                                   The TU will inspect a sample
maintenance loans to HOAs).                          of buildings or properties
PFIs have participated by                            which have applied to borrow
lending to HOAs for specific                         under the program to record
improvement / investment                            the state of their physical
projects in common areas.                            quality at the time of
application. For this sample,
photographs will be taken at
the time of application
("before") to allow a
comparison with later "after"
photographs.
- 23 -



PFIs report on legal
impediments (if any).
4. Institutional          Timeliness of quality          For all components
Strengthening Component   reporting.                By the TU:
TU has made guarantees                              Progress reports (quarterly)
available to the PFIs.                              Disbursement reports
It has completed the activities                     (quarterly)
required for monitoring and
evaluation.                                         By the Bank team:
Supervision mission reports
Evaluation mission reports
(mid-term and final).
Other:
Annual independent audit
report
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Low Down-Payment       $ 0.765 million             * By the TU:            Willingness of PFIs to lend to
Component                                           Progress reports (quarterly)  the homebuyers at high LTV
(guarantee)                                         Disbursement reports      ratios with the support of
(quarterly)               guarantees and cooperate with
the TU.
2. Reverse Mortgages For  $ 0.50 million              * By the Bank team:      Willingness of PFIs to adopt
Elderly Component                                   Supervision mission reports  new approaches to mortgage
(guarantee)                                         Evaluation mission reports  finance and cooperate with
(mid-term and final).     the TU and lend with only
partial guarantees;
3. Common Area Borrowing $ 0.75 million               * Other:                 Willingness by PFIs to lend to
Component                                           Annual independent audit   HOAs on a non-collateralized
(guarantee)                                         report                     basis for common area
investments with partial
guarantees;
4. Institutional          $ 0.80 million                                       (for each component):
Strengthening Component      * institutional                                   Timely preparation of the
strengthening                                  project, efficient
* monitoring and                                 implementation and
evaluation surveys                              adjustment, if needed. Timely
* government "Exit                                availability of counterpart
Strategy" study                                funding.
- 24 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.76 million
Guarantees for low down payment housing loans.
This component will address the issue of young people unable to afford housing and households
living in denationalized buildings who did not have the possibility to privatize their housing and now face
precipitous rent increases. Even when young families have the incomes sufficient to meet banking criteria
for borrowing, they usually do not have the necessary down-payment of 30 - 40 percent of house price.
This component will provide guarantees to qualifying home buyers (for detailed criteria, please, see
Operations Manual) for lowering the down-payment required by the banks on qualified properties. Loans
would be disbursed by the private commercial banks on market terms for the purposes of purchasing or
capital improvement of housing. Underwriting, administration, and foreclosure risk for up to 70 percent of
house value will be the responsibility of the eligible lenders. The Borrower would provide a guarantee for
the portion of the loan exceeding the amount provided by the bank in accordance with the standard loan to
value (LTV) ratio of 70 percent. The minimum required participation by the sub-borrower would be 10
percent. Such a guarantee would be valid for a period until the LTV ratio drops to 70 percent. The
guarantee would be effective only after foreclosure and recovery of the debt and it would cover the bank
losses up to the amount equal to 20 percent of the initial sales price.
The eligible Housing Loans under this component would be loans for purchasing housing that was
built not earlier than two years before signing the Loan Agreement between the World Elank and the
Borrower and/or capital investments in housing such as insulation and other energy efficiency measures,
renovation of roof and walls, installation / renovation of electric wiring, water / sewage system and similar
investments. Home improvement loans would be available to those households who have exhausted the
pledging capacity of their housing by having mortgage on it for the maximum loan to value ratio acceptable
to the banking sector (currently being 70 -75 percent of the property value). These loans shall have a
second mortgage on the property for the full amount of the loan. The total value of the home improvement
mortgage and all mortgages with higher priority registered on the property shall not exceed 90 percent of
the property value.
World Bank funds will provide reserves for the loan that is insured, i.e., 20 percent of house value,
which will allow a leveraging of Bank funds for beneficiaries' own contributions in the form of
down-payments. It is estimated that average loan size would be $18,000 based on expected average housing
value of $20,000, which will allow to issue about 375 loans.
The qualified borrowers would be households with moderate incomes, who qualify for bank lending
on market terms in accordance with regular bank requirements for mortgage loans. The maximum value of
the housing eligible for guarantees under this component shall not exceed LVL 50,000 for single units and
LVL 35,000 for apartments.
For more details, please see Operations Manual.
- 25 -



Project Component 2 - US$0.50 million
Guarantees for reverse mortgages to elderly
The income of the large elderly population in Latvia tends to be low and dependent on state pension
obligations which exceed 10 percent of GDP. However, the elderly often have wealth in the form of
privatized or restituted housing, which often has value (relative to income) that is much larger than is the
case in developed countries. A survey of pensioners by the Latvian Pensioners Association for this project
indicates that about 30 percent of pensioners surveyed would be interested in reverse mortgages. The
average value of the properties of those interested in such loans exceeded $10,000, and in Riga was
considerably more. This figure is almost 9 times larger than the average pension paid in 1999, suggesting
that the average house price exceeds the average pension income by more than double the amount typical of
market economies. In other words, even though the elderly tend to have lower incomes they have a
relatively large amount of housing wealth. However, bank financing is not available to them to access this
wealth. As a result, current conditions do not provide any possibilities for these "cash poor - housing rich"
elderly people to utilize their wealth and improve their living conditions or to protect themselves from
disruptions in current income. From a risk perspective, these elderly households are both extremely
under-diversified, due to the illiquidity of their wealth, and they are sometimes forced into poverty not
because they are poor, but because of imperfections in the newly-developing financial system, and the
constraints on providing any social assistance to families with apartments valued at more than $5,000.
This component would help address this imperfection by providing the elderly with access to
market-based finance. This scheme would allow pensioners to exchange part of the equity in their housing
for cash to allow them improve their housing conditions by making capital improvements in their units or
contributing their share to capital improvements in the common areas of the building where their apartment
is located. Commercial banks or insurance companies will provide financing to the elderly essentially in
the form of mortgage loans with deferred repayment. The loan amount and accumulated interest would be
repayable when the person leaves the property for any reason (including mortality) by the heirs or from the
proceeds of the sale of the property.
Experience with these instruments in market economies has shown that one of the key factors for
efficient implementation of such an instrument is trust and fairness of the transaction. As a result, qualified
sub-borrowers would be required to undertake special counseling on the transaction (for more details,
please, see Operations Manual). Such an extensive assistance and advice will be provided to the elderly
population primarily through the Association of Pensioners and other relevant NGOs. The American
Association of Retired Persons, an NGO that has actively supported the use of these instruments and
developed counseling for beneficiaries in the US, has agreed to donate the staff support needed for the
development of this product as well as to help develop outreach program for other counseling.
The Borrower will share the property value risk with private lenders, and/or assume the actuarial
risk that a specific elderly borrower would live beyond actuarial expectations. The expected risk sharing
ratio with PFIs is 20 percent by the PFI and 80 percent by the Borrower.
The expected investments and expenditures to be made by the elderly borrowers would be their
contributions to common capital improvements such as financed under Components 3 and improvement in
the elderly borrower's own unit.
- 26 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.75 million
Guarantees for common area borrowing
Banks in Latvia feel comfortable lending against real estate collateral, but there is very limited
lending to homeowners associations for improvements of common areas. Banks are only beginning to
undertake non-collateralized lending and HOAs are just starting to being formed. This component is
aimed at developing a mechanism to stimulate bank involvement in financing housing investments by
homeowners associations. This instrument is very similar to that of Component 1 and to two IFC-supported
projects in Hungary that also have provided credit enhancements for energy investments by small firms
which have, among other things, financed multi-family residential heating investments.
Under this component, guarantees will be provided to commercial banks which finance specific
investment projects for the improvement of the building's common areas. Such investment projects would
include, but not be limited to, energy efficiency measures, installation of heat sub-stations, replacement of
wiring, water and sewage systems, renovation of roofs and other capital improvements. The Borrower will
provide guarantees on a co-insurance basis, as done under component 1. However, in this case the banks
would be asked to take some portion of the risk exposure of 30 - 50 percent of loan value, while the
guarantee would, again like the IFC projects in Hungary, cover the larger risk.
The issues and regulations governing operations of HOAs and cooperatives will require continual
monitoring and transfer of know]edge about the effectiveness of various governance structures.
Bank funds would be disbursed to back-stop the guarantees issued by the Borrower. Eligibility
criteria for HOAs for this component would be designed to reinforce the newly introduced rights and
responsibilities of homeowners and would follow these general principles: (1) successfully established
housing association and (2) properly documented and legally binding agreements of participating
homeowners in accordance with HOA by-laws and other regulations stipulated by law to open an account,
make specified deposits, purchase the guarantee and use the funds for capital investments in common areas
(detailed requirements are specified in the Operations Manual). The HOAs will have to prove their
creditworthiness and comply with other commercial bank requirements for lending. No tangible collateral
shall be required by the commercial banks under this component.
For more details, please, see Operations Manual.
Project Component 4 - US$0.80 million
Institutional strengthening and Borrower studies
Please, see description under Monitoring and evaluation arrangements (item 3 in Chapter C in the
main text).
At the end of the pilot project, the Borrower will undertake a study that will focus on determining
the exit strategy and the least intrusive and lowest-cost way for the Borrower to proceed. The study will
evaluate the possibilities of the '[`U continuing operations on a self-financing basis, as well as develop a
strategy for the full transfer of the' operations to the private sector if the pilot demonstrates that the
products can be supplied on a financially sustainable basis. More detailed terms of reference for the study
will be developed during the Project implementation, based on the Project's progress and results.
- 27 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
~ ~~L~cal~ -~ ;Forelgn - -Total
Project Cost By Component                        m-o .. .IS,$milliionX
1. Guarantees for low down-payment housing loans                             0.76          0.76
3. Guarantees for reverse mortgages to elderly                               0.50           0.50
3. Guarantees for common area borrowing                                      0.75           0.75
4. Institutional strengthening and govemmental studies         0.80           0.00          0.80
5. Front End Fcc                                               0.00          0.02           0.02
0.00          0.00           0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                            0.80           2.03          2.83
Physical Contingencies                                        0.00          0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.00          0.00           0.00
Total Project Costsl                 0.80          2.03           2.83
Front-end fee                       0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required                  0.80           2.03          2.83
Identifiabie taxes and duties arc 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 2.83 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 71.73% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 28 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
Summary of benefits and costs:
Because of the demand driven nature of the project, it is difficult to determine what will be the
exact sub-projects to be implemented by the final beneficiaries. It is expected, based on the experience in
Lithuania, that the project will have direct and immediate positive economic effects on middle and lower
income Latvian families, and financial institutions. It will also benefit the economy in general, particularly
through energy savings, reducing housing costs and thereby increasing mobility, and introducing potentially
cost-effective financial innovations. By encouraging stronger linkages between the private linancial sector
and privately-owned real estate, the project will support the government's objective of shifting the provision
of housing services from the public to the private sector, thus enabling the public sector to concentrate on
reforming housing subsidy mechanisms and public assistance to those in real need.
Reserves such as the Bank's contribution under the Project will be accumulated for possible
macroeconomic stress situations in Latvia to ensure that the Borrower's exposure is limited to its initial
capital contribution of $2 milliDn and determined in line with Latvia's regulations on provision of such
guarantees. With the expected ratios (see Annex 5 for details) the World Bank's support of $2 million could
leverage up to $11 million in commercial bank loans for the housing sector, and $1 million in beneficiary
contributions. Based on current assumptions about risk sharing with PFIs, expected reserve requirements
and average loan size (see belciw), the project will have impact on up to 2,000 beneficiaries: up to 375
home buyers, up to 200 elderly ;nd up to 60 HOAs, each with numerous households.
The private sector will be introduced to new financial instruments in housing finance. It is expected
that by the end of the project the private sector will be ready and willing to undertake at least part of the
operations, with little or no government involvement.
Based on estimates, financial statements for the operations will be developed against which the
project's performance will be mDnitored, evaluated, and, if necessary, revised. The income statements and
balance sheet will be integrated into a financial stress test model which will allow the Borrower and the
Bank to be assured that even under pessimistic macroeconomic scenarios the Borrower's risk exposure
would be limited to its current capital contribution.
It is expected that the prDject can operate on full cost recovery basis, i.e. that premiuns charged by
the Borrower to the beneficiaries will cover both operating costs and expected claims under the guarantees.
Guarantee premiums will be estimnated based on the potential demand for the various products, survivorship
and decrement tables for each of the products under various scenarios, and estimated per unit costs.
Financial projections regarding guarantee operations of the TU, i.e. premiums, reserve ratios and
corresponding financial statements were developed during the project appraisal and will be finalized during
the initial period of the Project's implementation.
Main Assumptions:
It is expected that the average loan sizes for different categories would be as follows: $18,000
(based on $20,000 average housing value) for home buyers, $7,500 for elderly (based on the average
housing value of $15,000) and $50,000 for HOAs for component 3 (based on experience in Lithuania
Energy Efficiency Project).
- 29 -



Guarantee premiums will be estimated based on the following key information:
(1) component 1 - experience of the banking sector in Latvia in mortgage lending and experience
of other countries in similar programs such as Lithuania, Estonia and market economies such
as the US;
(2) component 2 - experience of life insurance companies in Latvia and experience of other
countries in similar programs such as US and Canada;
(3) component 3 - experience of the banking sector in Latvia in general business lending and
experience of other countries in similar programs such as Lithuania;
Reserve requirements will be calculated based on assumptions about possible macroeconomic
stress situations in Latvia such as significant drop in GDP, possibility of real estate market bubble,
probabilities of their occurrence and others. The reserves have been agreed by the financial supervisory
body of Latvia. The key test will be to ensure that the Borrower's exposure is limited to its initial capital
contribution.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
N/A
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
Years Ending
[ Year 1  |Year 2    Year 3     Year 4  | Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.5        0.7        0.7        0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.2        0.2       0.4        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.5        0.9        0.9        0.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.5        0.9        0.9        0.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.5        0.7        0.7       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                  0.1        0.3        0.3       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers-             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Commercial Banks
Beneficiaries                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.6        1.0       1.0        0.2       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                       ('0.        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
The following are the expected risk sharing ratios between the TU and the PFIs respectively as
percentage of the loan amount:
(1) component I - 22 percent / 78 percent
(2) component 2 - 80 percent / 20 percent
(3) component 3 - 70 percent / 30 percent
The following are the expected requirements for financing by the beneficiary as percentage of total
investment project:
(1) component I - 10 percent
(2) component 2 - N/A
(3) component 3 - 10 percent
The expected reserve requiremrent for all project components is 50 percent of the outstanding amount of
the guarantee.
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
Procurement
Bank funds will not directly finance any goods or services, but will be used to back stop guarantees
to be issued by the Borrower on a portion of commercial bank loans (financed from their own resources) to
homeowner's associations, new home buyers and the elderly, all of which are private sector operators and
as such select contracting parties with due attention to economy and efficiency. This is in line with the
Bank's procurement Guidelines, under Loans Guaranteed by the Bank (Section 3.14), and to a Procurement
in Loans to Financial Intermediaries (Section 3.12). Homeowners Associations who will borrow loans
from financial institutions, with a portion of the loan guaranteed by the project, would be able to receive
advise through the Advisory Centers on efficient procurement methods. There are no direct procurement
issues for the utilization of Bank funds. The project will follow the procedures for guarantees as has
already been applied in other Bank projects dealing with Guarantees in Albania (Private Industry Recovery
Project) and Tunisia (Export Development Project).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
;.-             .  ._  ,, ,              , .P o u e n Ii   l @ h d ' ' , -   ; 
~~ ~~"7~~~'. ~~ICB 7.                                      *~-      ~ T. Total C'os't
-Expenditur . - - ;                          -       ...        . i-'7i - 7r her       . -N 1
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         2.03         0.00        2.03
(0.00)          (0.00)       (2.03)       (0.00)      (2.03)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                           0.00            0.00          2.03        0.00        2.03
(0.00)          (0.00)       (2.03)       (0.00)     (2.03)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21funds to back stop guarantees issued by the Borrower. No procurement required.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 32 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
: . '                          mount in lJS$million  ..   Financirg Percentage
Guarantee facility                          2.01            100 percent of the required reserves
Front-end fee                               0.02
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _0 .0 0
Total Project Costs                         2.03
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                       2.03
* - These consist of capital reserves to be disbursed to and held by the TU on an escrow accountfor
issuance of the gutarantees.
Use of statements of expenclitures (SOEs):
Disbursements will utilize traditional methods. No transition to PMR-based disbursements is
envisaged. In Latvia, the State Treasury has been handling disbursements for all Bank financed projects,
and has, thus, accumulated good knowledge of Bank disbursement requirements.
The disbursement of World Bank funds would follow the approaches and disbursement basis used
in other projects such as the Export Development Project in Tunisia, Private Industry Recovery Project in
Albania, and Emergency Industrial Restart Project in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The loan funds would be
disbursed via Special Account and/or Special Reserve Account based on guarantees issued. Due to the
small amount of the loan and guarantees, disbursement for expenditures under all three components will be
made on the basis of an SOE-lype spreadsheet (Statement of Guarantees Issued) providing the following
detailed information for the respective period: name of beneficiary, date of guarantee issuance, date of
guarantee expiration, guarantee amount, amount transferred from special account to special reserve
account (escrow account) to back up the guarantee, date of transfer, cumulative amount of guarantees
issued (a sample form of the Statement of Guarantees Issued is included in the Project Operations Manual).
The supporting documentation to be retained by the TU to substantiate expenditure eligibility will be: a
guarantee agreement signed by the TU and the guarantee party, and a statement of payment of guarantee
premium by the guaranteed. Supporting documentation would be maintained by the TU and made available
for review by the Bank missions and project auditors. It will be retained for up to one year after the final
withdrawal from the loan or one year after the expiry date of the related guarantee, whichever is later.
Special account:
The Borrower may open a Special Account and Special Reserve Account (an escrow account) at
bank(-s) acceptable to the World Bank and the Borrower. In its letter to the Bank confirming opening of the
two account(-s) the Borrower will confirm that:
(i) the TU has direct and immediate access to the SA and/or SRA through the State Treasury to
pay eligible expenditures; and
(ii) in the case of claim the TU through the State Treasury will authorize payment from SRA to
the beneficiary of the guarantee.
- 33 -



Upon effectiveness, an initial deposit in the amount to be determined during negotiations with the
Borrower may be made to the SA. From the SA transfers to the SRA based on guarantees issued would be
made by the TU/State Treasury following the approaches used in other projects such as those mentioned
above. The TU would submit monthly or quarterly replenishment applications to the Bank accompanied by
a bank statement and reconciliation statement, detailing the transfers from the SA to the SRA and
substantiated by a statement of guarantees issued. The project funds will be disbursed against the required
amount of reserves to back up issued guarantees. Upon issue of the guarantee the required amount will be
transferred to Special Reserve Account (SRA) which main purpose is to assure funds for potential claims
resulting from issued guarantees. The use of SRA will be limited to: payments for called guarantees,
investments in liquid and safe securities. The rules for the use of SRA should be subject of agreement
between Borrower and the TU in accordance with the Operations Manual. During any quarter in which no
guarantees are issued, no funds would flow from the SA to the SRA.
Funds which have not been disbursed from the SA to the SRA by the closing date would be
returned from the SA to the main LIL Loan Account to be cancelled unless altemative arrangements for use
of Guarantee Facility funds are made by the Borrower in agreement with the Bank during the Project
implementation.
The TU will have direct and immediate access to the SRA through the State Treasury. In the event
of a default of the guaranteed loan, payments would be authorized and made by the TU out of the SRA in
any situations in which the reserves collected via premiums are first exhausted. The TU will prepare
regular reports in the format acceptable to the Bank on payments made from the SRA to financial
institutions based on guarantee claims.
At any moment in time the amount of reserves on SRA shall be equal to at least 50 percent of the
outstanding amount of guarantees at that moment. The amount exceeding 50 percent of such outstanding
amount of guarantees may be used as revolving funds for issuing new guarantees under the three
components.
Given the nature of this project and the fact that the basis of disbursement is guarantee issuance,
the Bank's normal supporting document requirements (copies of invoices, contracts, bills, proofs of
payment, etc.) are not relevant. No detailed tracking of Bank funds, through the Latvian economy,
subsequent to the flow from the SA to the SRA will be made.
Funds transferred to the SRA to backstop guarantees which have not been called as of the project
closing date will be kept in the SRA for the duration of the guarantee life, after which time, these funds
shall be used as revolving funds in accordance with the procedures laid out in the Project Operations
Manual unless agreed differently between the Borrower and the Bank.
Currency of Disbursement. Loans in Latvia are denominated mostly in Lats, US dollars and Euros.
Given that the reserves backing up the guarantees are denominated in US dollars, disbursements from the
loan account (direct disbursements to the TU), or payments from the SA to the TU, will be denominated in
the currency required to back the guarantees,which is US dollars.
Direct payments. The Borrower may decide not to use SA and proceed with direct payments to
SRA. In this case there would be no predetermined minimum disbursement amount, below which the
disbursements would not be made by the Bank.
Financial Management Arrangements. The TU is responsible for the management of project funds.
- 34 -



TU is an independent state entity established in 1994 by Ministry of Finance and it operates according to
the Articles of Association to administrate the projects performed in cooperation with International
Financial Agencies. TU has a separate financing, property and separated balance sheet, that is submitted to
the State Treasury. TU Director has an accounting and financial background, which in case of this project
containing the new financial products on the Latvian market will be fully utilized. The TU accounting is
performed by a Chief Accountant who has 5 years of experience as chief accountant in MSA for CIFA, 4
years accounting experience in commercial company. The TU has previous experience in implementation of
the World Bank projects includling Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project and Rural
Development Project.
The TU will maintain the accounts for the project in accordance with the government's cash
accounting system. The accounting system contains the following features: (a) computerized access based
accounting program JUMIS; (b) application of consistent international accounting principles for
documenting, recording, and repcrting its financial transactions; (c) chart of accounts and coding system
that allows meaningful summahzation of financial transactions for financial reporting purposes; (d)
internal control procedures for financial monitoring and authorization of transactions.; and (e) production
of annual financial statements acceptable to the State Treasury and the World Bank.
The systems will be supplemented by the Operations Manual covering procedures for issuing and
monitoring of the guarantees, accounting treatment for project transactions and off-balance sheet items,
management of Special Account and/or Special Reserve Account. For the purposes of the detailed financial
monitoring of particular guarantee products it is recommended to develop tailor made MIS with the use of
the available grant funds.
Projects expenditures will be recorded and reported by the TU accounting department, based on the
accounts maintained by it and the information received from the State Treasury and PFIs. The annual
financial statements will include the following documents: (a) a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds;
(b) uses of Funds by Project Activity; (c) summary of transactions with the Special Account and SOE
disbursements; (d) Special Resen'e Account Statement; (e) Summary of Statements of Expenditures; (f)
Project Balance Sheet and off-balance sheet items; (g) Project Income Statement showing income and
expenses related to the Project. The formats of the annual financial statements are presented in Operations
Manual.
Audit. Project accounts vtill be audited once a year by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor shall be responsible for the audit of the annual financial statements of the project and the TU,
including Borrower counterpart funds. The single audit project report will include an opinion on the
financial statements as well as on the eligibility of the expenses disbursed on the basis of SOEs and
transactions from the Special Account. The draft terms of reference for auditors are presented in the
Operations Manual. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Additionally the TU is required to provide the annual audit reports of the PFIs.
Issues for negotiations:
The following issues shall be discussed and agreed upon during the negotiations between the Bank
and the Borrower:
(I) Change of the TU Statutes to enable it to issue guarantees - condition of effectiveness;
(2) Selection of the auditor - Board condition or condition of effectiveness;
- 35 -



(3) Development of computer system for monitoring of guarantees;
(4) Location of SA and/or SRA and opening of these accounts, providing comfort letter to the
Bank.
- 36 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
P.roje& SZiduil e      1;    a'                   Planne.d     .-. -           Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (mnonths)
First Bank mission (identification)              12/02/1999                   12/02/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     06/12/2001                   06/12/1999
Negotiations                                     11/28/2001                   11/28/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/30/2002
Prepared by:
Robert Buckley
Laura Vecvagare
Preparation assistance:
Canadian Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Maha Armaly                        Operations Officer
Robert Buckley                     Principal Economist
William Denning                    Consultant
Gailius Draugelis                  Operations Officer
Ahmed Eiweida                      Urban Specialist
Jennifer Francis                   Program Assistant
Elly Gudmundsdottir                Counsel
Kremena lonkova                    Consultant
Federico Mini                      Consultant
Claudio Pardo                      Consultant
Kyoichi Shimazaki                  Financial Analyst
Shobha Subramanian                Program Assistant
Robert Van Order                   Consultant
Laura Vecvagare                    Consultant
Mark Walker                       Lead Counsel
- 37 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Please, see the Operations Manual that provides detailed plan for the implementation of the project. The
Operations Manual was discussed and developed during the appraisal mission and it will be finalized by the
TU before the implementation of the project is launched.
Iim
Operational Manual - 091901.i Credit Guarantee Guidlines 20010924
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Latvia Housing Project LIL - Broad Discussion; dated June 4, 2001
Survey conducted by the Latvian Pensioner's Association, May-June 2001.
Questions asked:
pensioner_survey_questions_2001 june_verO
Tabulation of results, for those who indicated an interest in buying a reverse mortgage:
pensioners_survey_02.>
*Including electronic files
- 38 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
P058476      2001 LIEPAJA S.W. MGMT.                             222      000                 0 00     0 00      2 20      0 50     026
P008530      2001 RIGA DIST HEAT                                3616      0 00                0 00     0 00     35 62      816      0 00
P058520       1999 HEALTH                                       12 00     0 00                0 00     0 00      5.46      7 60     0 00
P055585       1999 STATE REVENUE SERVIC                          5.00     0 00                0 00     0 00      1 96      3 04     0 00
P049172       1999 EDUC IMPROVMT                                31.10     0.00                0.00     0.00      7 47     -6.08     000
P045716       1998 SOLID WASTE MGMT (GEF)                        000      0.00                5.10     000       237       262      000
P040553       1998 SOLID WASTE MGMT                              7.95     0.00                5.10     0.00      4 63      3 63     0.03
P035607       1997 WELFARE REFORM                               1810      0 00                0.00     0 00      4.32      7.10     0 00
P034584       1996 MUNSERVICESDEVT                              27.30     000                 000      0.02      0.47      049      000
Total:     139.63      0.00             10 20       0.02     64.69     27 09     0 28
LATVIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval             Company                              Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
1996                    Vika Wood                             0.80      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.80      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:               0.80      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.80      0.00      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                  Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
2001                   Linstow Retail                           17.00        8.00        0.00       35.00
Total Pending Commitment:                17.00        8.00        0.00       35.00
- 39 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LATVIA: HOUSING PROJECT
EuroPe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   middle.
Latvia      Asia   Income       Development dlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         2.4      475      2.046                 Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   2.870      2.010     1.140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       6.9       956      2.327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                         0
Labor force (%)                                        -0.8       0.6       1.3     GNI            *      ,         Groaa
per           ,       '        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita                       enrollment
Povertv (% of goDulation below national povertv line)
Urban Population (% of totat Population)                69        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        69        69
Intant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                14        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               ..        ..       11           Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (I% of population)    ..       90        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      0         3         15
Gross orimarv enrollment (x of school-age pooulatIon)   96       100        114              tafvie
Male                                                  98       101       118               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                93        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999     2000
Economic ratlo&'
GDP (US$ billions)                              ..     12.5       6.7       7.2
Gross domestic InvestmentGDP                 25.6     40.1       27.0      27.1
Exports of aoods and services/GDP                     47.7       43.8      45.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                   32.7     38.8       16.7      18.6
Gross national savmnas/GDP                      ..       ..      17.4      20.3
Current account balance/GDP                    ..        ..      -9.7       .8      D    e
Interest payments/GDP                           ..     0.0        1.5       1.1     Oom-Inse
Total debt/GDP                                          0.0      39.9      41.0     savings
Total debt service/exports                      ..       ..       9.2       7.5
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..        ..      13.1      13.2
Present value of debUexports                   ..        ..      28.4      26.5
Indebtedness
1980.90  1990-00     1999      2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  5.8     -3.4       1.1       6.6       5.0           -   Latv/a
GDP per capita                       5.2     -2.4       1.8       7.2       5.7               Lower-middle-Income group
Exports of goods and services          ..     1.4     -6.4       12.8       6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999     2060       Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                  11.8     21.9        4.5       4.5 
Industry                                     50.9     46.2       27.0      25.3     *o
Manufacturing                               46.0     34.5      15.3      14.5     20
Services                                     37.2      31.9      68.5      70.2                                 '
Private consumption                          59.4     52.7       62.8      62.5    .20                       s 5
General government consumption                7.9      8.6       20.5      18.9                     GDI     --*-GDP
Imports of aoods and services                   ..    49.0       54.1      54.3
(average annual growth)                   1980-90  1990-00      1999      2009      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Aariculture                                   4.2      -7.0      -7.3       9.2     40
Industry                                      6.5     -8.4       -3.4       5.1     s
Manufacturinq                                6.7     -7.8      *5.9       5.7     20.
Services                                      5.1      2.5        5.1       7.1     io
Private consumption                           5.4     -4.8        5.1       5.6
General qovernment consumptiOn                5.0      7.8        0.0      -2.9    -1      9g
Gross domestic investment                     3.4     -1.9       -8.7      -1.3             -E   xpons      -Imports
Imports of goods and services                   ..     2.4       -5.2       4.8
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the countrv (in bold) comoared with Its Income-group averane. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomolete.
-40 -



Latvia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990     1999     2000      Inflation I%)
Domestc prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                              ..      ..       2.4      2.6    30
Implicit GDP deflator                       0.5    -27.8      7.4      4.3
Government flnance                                                             *s
(% of GDP, includes cuirent grants)                                            o
Current revenue                              ..      ..      40.0     37.5            95    96   97     98   99 o9
Current budget balance                        ..      ..      0.7      0.6            -     GDP detator  e   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..     -3.9      -3.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..      ..     1,724    1,869    4,000
n.a.
n.a.                                        ..      ..        ..       ..    3,000
Manufactures                               ..       ..     1,582    1,711
Total Imports (cif)                          ..       ..    2,824     3,057    2.000
Food                                       ..       ..      256      285     1,000
Fuel and energy                            ..       ..      129       135
Capital goods                               ..      ..      538       521       o
94   90  9s   97   98   99   00
Export price Index (1997=100)                ..       ..       96       95
Import price index (1997=100)                ..      ..        93       99                 * Expots     N Inports
Terms of trade (1997=100)                    ..       ..      104       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..     ..     2,914     3,271     o
Imports of goods and services                ..      ..     3,605    3,876     -2
Resource balance                             ..      ..      -691     -606
Net income                                    ..     ..       -48       25
Net current transfers                        ..      ..        93       96      - .1             1    1   1
Current account balance                      ..      ..      -648     -485
Financing items (net)                        ..      ..       811      513     -o
Changes in net reserves                      ..      ..      -165      -28    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..      ..     1,124     1,092
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSs)              ..      ..      0.6       0.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990     1999      2000
(USS millions)                                                                 Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed         ..       ..    2,657     2,930
IBRD                                       ..      ..       200      242                        A: 242
IDA                                        ..        ..       0        0                             C:3
D 28
Total debt service                           ..       ..      283      265                                  E.55
IBRD                                       ..      ..        17       21
IDA                                        ..      ..         0        0       G: 1.288
Official grants                            ..      ..        23       32
Official creditors                         *-       *-       47      -10                                 /
Private creditors                          ..      ..       267     -233
Foreign direct investment                  ..      ..       331      398
Portfolio equity                           ..      ..       273     -321
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..       ..       36       79      A - IBRO                  E - BilSateral
Disbursements                              ..      ..        28       63      8 *IDA   D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       ..      ..         4        9     C- IMF                     G - Short-temm
Net flows                                  ..      ..        24       54
Interest payments                          ..      ..        13       12
Net transfers                              ..      ..        11       42
Development Economics                                                                                           9/5/01
-41 -






LATVIA                             DTimawaprdcdbth
LATV i A       2        9      il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h 6ondre' s, colors,clenonintol1n,   A 
ROADS                                       and anyother inforroton shownon
o   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIESthsmpCOntmpYon'eprlf
   NATIONAL CAPITAL           A                ondte lealstatus fanyterritory,or
----  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   suchboundaries
RIVERS
ol      0      0ILMERS                                  ESTONIA 8OKILME
0   25   0   MILES                              To Lum
200                             SoorQ) 2    2fa                    2Al,6Er   r 
C-            >      HKolka  R i  a              Stre> l ^3llRSIA
@F  \  X              \   ~~~~~~~~LimbaiigVlir lu s e   \zz F ED E RATION
C,Ventspi<QQlX \M6rsrags          <$111\6
6 \  9  d~~~~e  |                   iSgulda  b|                    To Ostrov
Liepaj Z/a                         a!a             isukiu Luk
I   <           e }   L I T H U A N I~~~~~e ~,  A      Tz 7Xn  o 
>~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 12    l% 









IMAGING
Report No.:        23552  LV
Type:     PAD



