Report No. 23252
Report No: I074410 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/16/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: LATVIA Project ID: P074410
Project: HOUSING LIL (PHASE #1)          Task Team Leader: Robert M. Buckley
Appraisal Date: June 12, 2001    IBRD Amount ($m): 2.00
Board Date: March 14, 2002       IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSIE     Sector: FY - Other Finance; UH - Urban Housing
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project will introduce households, housing associations, and
financial institutions to what, for Latvia, would be new financial
mechanisms for housing finance. The objective of the project is to
determine whether qualified households, housing associations, and
financial institutions will use the new financial mechanisms to finance
high return investments that currently are not funded by private lenders.
Based on the results of the implementation, the project will also attempt
to determine the least intrusive and lowest-cost way for the government to
proceed.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will provide a $2 million Bank loan to back-stop guarantees
provided by the Borrower to local financial institutions (commercial banks
and/or insurance companies) under Master Guarantee Agreements (MGA) to be
signed by the Borrower and each individual participating financial
institution (PFI) with "no-objection" from the Bank. While the MGA will
specify procedures for the issuance of such guarantees and contractual
obligations between the financial institution and the Borrower (for
details, please, see Operations Manual), individual guarantees issued
under the umbrella of the MGA for individual Housing Loans granted by the
PFIs would specify details of the individual guaranteed Housing loan and
procedures related to the Sub-borrowers.
The Project will be implemented and Guarantees administered by the
Technical Unit operating under supervision of the Office of the Minister
for Special Assignments for Cooperation with International Financial
Agencies (MSA for CIFA). The guarantees would be offered to PFIs at prices
that would ensure full cost recovery (for details, please, see E.2).
Guarantee premiums will be reviewed and agreed upon by the Borrower and
the World Bank at least annually. Premiums for the initial period will be
agreed upon during negotiations. Housing Loan underwriting, administration
and foreclosure will be delegated to the eligible lenders (for detailed
criteria, please, see Operations Manual). The experience with these
guarantees would be used to develop an exit strategy for the government's
encouragement of the private sector. At the end of the implementation of
the project, the Borrower will undertake a study of the experience of
these guarantee operations that will focus on determining the least



intrusive and lowest-cost way for the Borrower to proceed.
The following three types of guarantees will be offered under this
project:
Individual-Based Mortgage Lending
Component 1: Guarantees for low down-payment housing loans
Under this component guarantees will be provided to the private financial
institutions for housing loans secured by mortgages either for capital
investments in the housing unit (home improvement loan) or for purchasing
of new housing, which is defined as housing built not earlier than two
years prior to signing the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower. Guarantees for both types of Housing Loans would be structured
so that homeowners would be required to contribute at least 10 percent of
house value, with lenders providing loans of up to 90 percent of house
value. The TU would guarantee the repayment of loan amounts above 70
percent of the house value. The only difference between the two types of
Housing Loans is that home improvement loans would be secured by second
mortgages while home purchase loans would be components of a single
mortgage.
Home improvement loans would be available only for those households who
have exhausted the borrowing capacity of the pledged housing, i.e. that
the housing has been obtained by a mortgage loan for the maximum loan to
value ratio acceptable to the lender based on general business practice,
which currently is 70 - 75%-. If there is no mortgage on the housing and
the owner would like to borrow for home improvement purposes, he/she would
be able to obtain a loan from the PFI without the guarantee as a general
business practice. The guaranteed home improvement loans would be separate
loans secured by second mortgages on property up to the maximum total loan
to value ratio of all mortgages of 90%-. Such loans would be provided for
capital improvements of the housing unit (defined in the Operations
Manual) such as insulation and other energy efficiency measures,
renovation of roofs and walls, installation / replacement of electric
wiring, water / sewage system and similar investments.
Home purchase loans would be provided for lowering the down-payment
required by the commercial banks. The initial risk of up to LTV ratio that
is generally accepted by the banking sector (currently 70 - 75%) will be
the responsibility of the eligible lenders. The TU would provide a
guarantee for purchase of qualified housing for the portion of the loan
exceeding the amount provided by the bank based on 70 percent loan to
value ratio (LTV). In both cases, guarantees would be valid for a period
until the LTV ratio drops to 70 percent. The guarantee would be effective
only after foreclosure and recovery of the debt and it would cover the
bank losses up to the amount equal to 20 percent of the initial appraisal
value of the housing.
Loans to the eligible participants would be disbursed by the private
commercial banks on market terms. Underwriting, administration, and
foreclosure will be the responsibility of the eligible lenders.
World Bank funds would be disbursed against issued guarantees in the
expected ratio of 50W of the amount of the guarantee. These funds would
allow leverage of commercial bank lending up to 9 times the amount of the
World Bank's support. (Bank funds to back stop the issued guarantees
would compose 50 percent x 20 percent = 10 percent. 90 percent divided by
10 percent = 9). Hence, with the expected allocation of the WB funds for
this component of $0.75 million, the leveraged additional funds could
reach $7.5 million ($6.75 million private bank financing and $0.75 million
- 2 -



beneficiary cofinancing).
Component 2: Guarantees for reverse mortgages to elderly
Under this component the Borrower will provide guarantees to financial
institutions (banks or insurance companies) that would issue reverse
mortgage loans to the elderly for home improvements as defined under
Component 1 or as the elderly person's contribution to investments as
defined under Component 3. Home improvement could be undertaken either in
the elderly person's housing unit or in the common areas of the
multi-apartment building where the person's unit is located and for which
the person is obligated to make its contribution. The key parameters of
the reverse mortgage loans are - payments are made by the financial
institution to the elderly against the mortgage on the elderly person's
property and the loan consisting of both principal paid out by the
commercial bank and the accumulated interest is repaid to the commercial
bank when the person leaves the property (due to mortality or moving to
another residence) from the proceeds of the sale of the property or by the
heirs. Such transactions can easily be misunderstood by the elderly, not
only in Latvia, but also in developed economies such as US, so that the
private sector, by itself, is often not able to provide the necessary
trust that the transaction is fair. Therefore, along with providing
partial guarantees the Borrower will make sure that extensive assistance
and advice will be provided to the elderly population primarily through
the Association of Pensioners and other relevant NGOs.
The specific details on ratios of risk sharing will be determined during
the negotiations with the private financial institutions. The Bank funds
will be disbursed against issued guarantees with the expected ratio of 50t
of the guaranteed amount. With the expected allocation of the WB funds for
this component of $0.5 million and assumed risk sharing ratio between the
Borrower and the financial institutions of 80/20, the leveraged additional
funds would be $1.25 million.
Non-Mortgage Lending and Institutional Development
Component 3 - Guarantees for common area borrowing
Under this component, guarantees will be provided by the Borrower to the
commercial banks that would grant loan to HOAs for specific investment
projects for capital improvement of buildings' common areas. Such
investment projects would include energy efficiency measures, installation
of heat sub-stations, replacement of wiring, water and sewage systems,
renovation of roofs and other capital improvements. This instrument is
very similar to two IFC-supported projects in Hungary, i.e., Energy
Efficiency Co-Finance Programs 1 and 2, that also have provide credit
enhancements for energy investments for multi-family residential heating
investments.
The Borrower will provide guarantees on a co-insurance basis. The banks
would be asked to take the initial risk exposure of 30 - 50 percent of the
loan value, while the guarantee would, again like the IFC projects in
Hungary, cover the subsequent and larger risk. Like the other components,
Bank funds would be disbursed to back-stop the guarantees issued by the
Borrower with the expected ratio of about 50 percent of the guaranteed
loan amount. Discussions with a number of commercial banks indicated
broad interest in expanding their lending to households on a
non-collateralized basis for such purposes with support of guarantees.
Such lending by banks would leverage World Bank funds by up to 4 times (50
percent x 50 percent = 25 percent). Hence, with the expected allocation of
-3 -



the WB funds for this component of $0.75 million, the leveraged additional
funds could reach $3.33 million ($3.0 million private bank financing and
$0.33 million beneficiary cofinancing).
The Danish Technical Assistance in cooperation with the Ministry of
Environmental Protection and Regional Development (MEPRD) of Latvia will
provide advice and information on property management as well as
information about energy efficiency as they are related to component 3.
Operations Manual to be agreed upon during negotiations provides for
detailed description of the products, the project implementation,
responsibilities of parties, eligibility requirements, etc. Any material
changes in the Operations Manual will be made in agreement between the
Borrower and the World Bank.
Component 4: Institutional strengthening and Borrower studies
This component refers to the institutional strengthening aspects of the
continuing development of the TU to discharge its role as a financial
services provider. It also includes both the monitoring and evaluation
activities that the TU will undertake as part of the learning process,
(see the Monitoring and Evaluation section below for a description of
these) as well as the government study upon closing of the project. The
study will attempt to determine the best exit strategy for the project
based on the experience during the project's implementation and it will
focus on determining the least intrusive and lowest-cost way for the
Borrower to proceed. An underlying hypothesis of this study would be
determining whether the financial market imperfections, which motivate the
government's interventions, have been eliminated. If so, the rationales
for continued government involvement would no longer exist and the exit
strategy should be either sale of the guarantee portfolios to the private
sector or gradual ceasing of operations. If it is, however, determined
that private sector is unable to undertake any of these operations fully
on its own, that is, explaining why the imperfections have not been
eliminated, recommendations will be developed on the most efficient way
for the Borrower to proceed. In other words, the study would focus on how
a sunset on the government's role could be most effectively structured.
The estimated costs for this component is $0.8 million, which will be
covered by the Borrower as its contribution.
Components:
Component 1: Credit enhancements for first-time home buyers
Component 2: Guarantees for reverse mortgages to elderly
Component 3: Guarantees for common area borrowing
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
N/A
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
- 4-



Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
A recent review of the Latvian environmental legislation indicates that
Latvia has a well developed environmental assessment system. In the cases
of construction and reconstruction, contractors performing such works will
be required to obtain all the necessary permits to carry out the works in
accordance with the legislation of Latvia. The participating financial
institutions will be required to ensure that the contract between the
contractor and the sub-borrower requires the construction company to
obtain all such permits. Supervision of the compliance with the
appropriate legal requirements will be performed by the respective
authorities as stipulated in the legislation of Latvia. A sample EMP will
be prepared before project effectiveness and will be attached to the
Operational Manual.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
- 5-



Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Robert M. Buckley        11/12/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   11/14/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Margret C. Thalwitz      11/14/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



