Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 9110-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15. 1990
Human Resources Operation Division
and Indian Ocean Department
restricte4 disdibution and may be used by redpienl only In te perfonmnCO of
Its contei*s may not otherwise be dislosed whhout Wodd Bank a*tHSdzlto.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              -              Zaire (Z)
US$1.0                     -              Z 1,170 (November 1990)
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE - FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB            African Development Bank
BDZ             Banque du Zaire (Central Bank)
CEPLANUT        Centre de Planification de la Nutrition (National Nutrition
Planning Center)
CONDIFFA        Depart3ment de la Condition de la Femme et de la Famille
(Department of Women's Affairs)
ECZ             Eglise du Christ au Zaire
EPI/CCCD        Expanded Program on Immunization/Combatting Children
Communicable Diseases
FONAMES         Ponds National M4dico-Sanitaire (National Health Fund)
FP              Family Planning
GECAMINES       Generale des Carribres et des Mines (The National Copper
Mining Company)
HC              Health Center
HZ              Health Zone
MCH             Maternal and Child Health
NGO             Non-Government Organization
PASS            Programme d'Aiustement des Secteurs Sociaux (Social Sector
Adjustment Program)
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PHC             Primary Health Care
PSND            Proiet de Service des Naissances Desirables (FP program)
PSPT            Projet Sante pour Tous (Primary Health Care Project in
Kinshasa)
SAL             Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA             Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SPA             Special Program of Assistance for Africa
TDCI            Troubles Das aux Carences Iodees (Iodine Deficiency
Disorderp)
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
WHO             World Health Organization
WID             Women-In-Development
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zaire in July 1989 and consisted of Dr. J. Baudouy (Mission leader),
Mmes M. Y. Powers, E. Murray, E. Karp, D. Hill, B. Szaszkiewicz, E. Huybens
and Messrs E. Elmendorf, J.L. Bosse, J.L. Dubois, A. Gamatie, M. Marx. The
report was written by Dr. J. Baudouy with contributions from
Mr. E. Elmendorf, Ms. E. Murray and Mrs. F. Duchesne.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENrS
Pages
Credit and Project Summary ...........  ............ ................ sees. i-ii
I.    BACKGROUND  ....................................                 ........    1
A.    The Economic Situation .....                . ...... .............    1
B.    The Social Situation ...... ..*.e ....... ....  ................    2
II.   SECTORAL ISSUES AND BANK ROLE ............................    5
A.    Sectoral ,ssues  ............... . ............                                5
o Social Policies and Public Spending ..5.................    5
o Sector-Specific Situation and Issues                    .....  6
o Intersectoral Issues    .................................. .                7
B.    Bank Group Operations and Strategy ..................                .....     9
o Objectives and Strategy ........            ........................        9
o The Status of the Policy Dialogue .......................                   9
o The Lending Program . ...................................                  10
o Collaboration with Other Donors  .....                ...................   11
III. THE PROJECT  ..............................................  11
A.   Concept and Objectives                ...................................   11
B.    Project Description ..            ....................................   13
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...................................  23
A.    Project Management  ........ ............. .......................   23
B.    Planning and Monitoring  . ...                   ..................... .      24
C.    Reporting  ..... ..              .................................  25
V.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ..... ..........................   26
A.    Cost of the Proposed Operation                ...........................   26
B.    Finnacing and Financial Impact                ...........................   28
C.    Procurement         ........................................   30
D.    Disbursement  .......................................   32
VI.   JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS                 ........................   33
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........... .. .  35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Paie
. I   Health and Education Actual Expenditures as
percent of Central Recurrent Budget .........   5
II       Cost Summary by Expe.iditure Category ........... 27
III      Project Costs by Component .................. ... 28
IV       Financing Plan by Expenditure Category ......... 29
-- V  Procurement Arrangements ........                 30
VI       Civil Works ....................................  31
VII      Disbursement ...................................  32
ces
c I       Zaire Social Indicator Data Sheet
: II      Public Investment Program (PIP)
c III     Letter of Social Policy
c IV      Increasing and Targeting Public Spending
in Health and Education
c V       Zaire Priority Household Survey Plan of Operation
c VI      Program Summary Data Sheet
c VII     Project Implementation Schedule
- VIII    Sectoral Committees Listing and Composition
c IX      Supervision Plan
. X       Detailed Costs
c XI      Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
C XII     Organizational Chart
C XIII    Selected Working Documents
E3RD #22681



ZAIRh
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
Credit Summary
BORROWER:            Government of Zaire
BENEFICIARIES:      Ministries of Planning, Health, Education, Women and
Family Affairs, Environment, and several NGOs.
CREDIT AMOUNT:       SDR 21.9 million (US$30.4 million equivalent)
TERMS:               Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
DESCRIPTION:
Obiectives: (a) to protect vulnerable population groups from the adverse
social effects of a deteriorating economic situation; (b) to maintain, in
collaboration with other donors, essential public health, nutrition and
family planning programs; and (c) to prepare future projects and programs
in the social sectors by developing new policies on women-in-development,
population and environment, and by establishing a national capability for
collecting and analyzing social indicators.
Components: Part A of the project-Support of Social Sector Reform-aims at:
(a) establishing and monitoring additional budgetary allocations to primary
health care and education; (b) delineating and rationalizing the specific
roles of non-governmental and governmental institutions in social services
financing and delivery; and (c) providing an adequate framework and data
base for larger investments in the social sectors. These objectives would
be reached through: (a) rationalization of the government's role in social
sectors by (i) increasing and targeting public funding of health and
education; (ii) developing intersectoral social policies; and (iii)
building up statistical capabilities; (b) social surveys and studies on the
social dimensions of development; and (c) pilot projects that would test
new social policies and strategies. Part B of the project-Support of
Population, Health and Nutrition Programs-aims at responding quickly to
basic needs of population groups which are currently poorly served by
health, family planning and nutrition services. These PHN programs
include: (a) priority public health programs (health care strengthening and
support to communicable disease control programs); (b) family planning and
safe motherhood activities; and (c) nutrition activities, including iodine
deficiency control.
Benefits and Risks
In the short-term, the project will have the following benefits: (a)
increased access for underserved population groups to primary health care
services and priority public health programs (such as immunization, family



- ii -
planning and nutrition education); (b) qualitati:e improvements in primary
education through targeted operational inputs (such as training materials);
and (c) improved community-based social programs in pilot areas. In the
longer term, the policy changes in resource allocation for health and
education, the policy developments in population, women-in-development,
environment, nutrition and food security, and the capacity building for
public/private sector coordination in social service delivery, are expected
to pave the way for significant human resources development in parallel
with economic growth. The proposed operation has two significant risks.
The first risk is the cross-sectoral nature of the operation, which might
overstretch the managerial capabilities of the Government. This risk has
been minimized by the establishment of a strong Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) and the decentralization of management responsibilities and
accountability to each implementing agency (including NGOs) involved in the
project. The other risk is the financial sustainability of incremental
recurrent expenditures implied by the project. This risk would be
addressed by monitoring social spending as part of the project
conditionality, developing cost sharing/risk sharing at the community
level, and maintaining a coordinated external support until sustained
economic growth has taken place.
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
-US5MIII on
LOCAL    FOREIGN     TOTAL
Social Sector Reform                 2.8        8.2       5.8
PHN programs                         5.9       13.7      19.8
Project Mgmt. A Monitoring           1.0        2.6       8.5
PPF                                   .3        1.2       1.6
Total baseline costs            9.8       20.6      380.4
Physical contingencies           .6        1.6       2.0
Price contingenciou             1.6        8.1       4.8
Total Project Costs                 T M                  87.0
_ --==GG          ==
FINANCING PLAN
Government                           8.7       ----       8.7
IDA                                  8.0       22.4      80.4
UNDP                                 0.1        2.8       2.9
Total                               11.8       26.2       7.0
====    === 
ESTIMATED IDA DIS8URSEMENTS
IDA's fiscal year   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96
Annual               1.6     4.8    8.6    9.7   6.2   0.7
Cumulative           1.5     6.8   14.8   24.6  29.7  80.4
Project Completion Date: June 80, 1995



ZAIRE: SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
I - BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Situation
1.01       Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita
(estimated at US$262 in 1989) ranks among the lowest on the continent.
With a population of about 35 million, Zaire has a low population density
estimated at 13 persons per square kilomneter. Almost 40 percent of the
population lives in urban areEs. Zaire has large unutilized economic
potential, with natural resources that include the largest remaining
tropical forest in Africa (and tr.e second in the world after Amazonia),
fertile soils and an ample rainfall in most areas. However, in some regions
population growth is leading to pressure on land with serious consequences
for the environment. The country also has considerable mineral resources.
While copper and cobalt are being actively exploited, further potential for
development exists in gold, diamonds and petroleum. Mining and mineral
processing account for nearly one third of GDP and more than three quarters
of total export earnings.
1.02       After a difficult period of civil turmoil and severe economic
decline following Independence (1960), the Zairian economy underwent three
major cycles: the growth years of 1967-1974, when growth averaged 4.4
percent p.a. in real terms (admittedly, from a depressed basis), fueled by
favorable terms of tr;4e and substantial direct foreign investment. The
current account balance was in steady surplus, inflation was low, and social
indicators improved; the crisis years of 1974-1982, when falling commodity
prices and rapidly eroded investor confidence (brought about by the
nationalization and zairianization of foreign-owned business) led to the
decline of GDP at a rate of -1.5 percent p.a. on average, and persistent
current account deficits. Expansionary public spending financed by money
creation and heavy external borrowing (much of it on non-concessional terms
and for inviable projects) failed to stimulate growth, while fueling
inflation and worsening the public finance and the balance of payments
outlook; and the stabilizationladjustment years (since 1983) when the
Government embarked on a program of stabilization and structural adjustment,
albeit not without hesitations and lapses, and with mixed results. Zaire's
adjustment faces major constraints, including: (a) an unstable macroeconomic
framework; (b) an inefficient public sector (as shown, for example, by the
deterioration of the transport infrastructure); (c) an unsatisfactory
investment climate; (d) a large external debt, estimated at about US$8
billion (100 percent of the current GDP), with a debt service ratio of 60
percent; and (e) insufficient attention to human capital development.
1.03       The adjustment program initiated late 1983 introduced important
stabilization and reform measures in public resource management, price and



trade liberalization, and other private sector incentives. From 1983 to
mid-1986 Zaire undertook far-reaching reforms, including the devaluation of
the local currency by 78 percent in SDR terms; substantive exchange, trade
and price liberalization, including the decontrol of agricultural producer
prices and interest rates; tighter public expenditure controls, including
containment of wage increases; and measures to reduce the burden of
parastatals on public finances. From late 1986 to end 1988 the Government
discontinued the stabilization program and reintroduced economic controls.
Although it continued trade liberalization measures - through a first stage
of the import tariff reform, the abolition of export levies on manufactured
exports, the simplification of export procedures, and tax incencives to
private investment - the Government's failure to control public expenditure
negated the impact of these reforms. Previous progress in exchange rate
adjustment and price liberalization was partly reversed by letting the
differential between official and parallel market exchange rates increase,
and by failing to remove ex-post and administrative price controls. In
1989, the resumption of the stabilization program and the favorable world
trends in copper price led to certain positive financial results. Monetary
creation was sharply reduced and inflation declined to 60 percent on an
annual basis. Non-GECAMINES fiscal revenues increased to 6.8 percent of GDP
(compared to 5 percent in 1988) while total government expenditures were
reduced from 15 percent of GDP to 10 percent (partly because of reduced debt
service). However, these improvements were limited by the lack of control
over government recurrent spending: in particular the composition of
expenditures was heavily biased towards non-developmental purposes.
Finally, supply response, private investment and economic growth remained
low. GDP is estimated to have declined by 2 percent in 1989 and per capita
income diminished by 5 percent. The perspectives for 1990 are poor: the
falling output of GECAMINES, high levels of government expenditures, and
declining tax recovery are combining into a difficult budgetary situation.
Recourse to monetary financing of the deficit is fueling inflation, which
may reach 100 percent at the end of the year.
B. The Social Situation
1.04       Despite significant achievements over the past thirty years -
such as an increase in life expectancy from 44 years in 1955 to 52 years in
1989 - social indicators in Zaire remain poor (these indicators are
summarized in Annex I).  For example, under-five mortality is close to 200
per 1000, maternal mortality is estimated at 6 per 1000 live births, and 25
percent of children and 13 percent of pregnant women are undernourished.
While these figures are average for low-income African Countries, recent
worsening trends and the potential for further deterioration are matters of
serious concern. Enrollment rates in primary education have decreased from
92 percent in 1978 to the current level of 76 percent. A recent IDA study
shows that the decrease in undtr-five mortality is slowing down,
particularly in certain rural areas (Shaba, Kivu). Furthermore, UNICEF
reports on Maternal and Child Health Scatus (1986 and 1988) indicate that
malnutrition is rising in poor regions, particularly in peri-urban areas.
These findings suggest that the country's economic problems and the



inadequacy of social programs are having a negative impact on the living
standards of the population. In addition, the recent AIDS epidemic 1/ which
has already a negative impact on health status and health system in urban
areas, has the potential to cause severe human and economic losses in the
country. Due to the absence of timely, reliable and representative data on
living standards it is difficult to measure the specific social efrects of
the leteriorating economic situation (particularly price inflation and
declining real wages) which started in the mid 1970s. The analysis of the
country's poverty profile, completed in the context of the Bank-supported
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project 2/, concludes that it is the
absence of sustained macroeconomic adjustment leading to growth and the
Government's financial and policy disengagement from the social sectors that
are mainly responsible for the deterioration of living standards. Should
these trends continue, they may have serious detrimental effects on the
long-run prospects for human resource development.
1.05       The social sectors in Zaire have certain distinct features: the
wide diversity of service providers, the limited (and declining) role of the
State, the importance of religious NGOs and the high consumer participation
in operating costs. In the Health sector, approximately 80 percent of
health services are provided by religious NGOs (Catholic, Protestant,
Kimbanguist, and Moslem) 3/, donor-supported and commvrnity-based projects,
private practitioners (including traditional healers) and the medical
departments of large public and private enterprises. In the Education
sect_-, the churches manage 80 percent of primary education and 66 percent
of secondary education. In both sectors, cost recovery through user charges
is high: in some cases health care consumers contribute as much as 80
percent of operating costs of the health facility they attend. In
education, parents' contributions cover on average about 50 percent of
school operating costs. The level of cost recovery cannot be considered in
isolation when judging the success of social programs. Utilization rates
and, ultimately, improvements in social conditions must also be considered
to assess the success of social policies. Low and decreasing social service
utilization rates in poor areas suggest that high user charges (relative to
purchasing power) have a disincentive effect. This situation is most
1/   IDA is contributing to the National AIDS Control Program with a free-
standing project, approved in FY89.
2/   The SDA project was established in 1987 as a joint venture between
UNDP, AfDB and the World Bank with the objective of assisting
participating governments in integrating social dimensions in the
design of their structural adjustment programs and development plans.
3/   The Kimbanguist movement originated from Kimbangua, a charismatic
leader of the 1920s, who fought against the colonial power (including
the Catholic churcl. and created a national church of christian
obedience. Kimbanguists are estimated at about 4 million.



- 4 -
inequitable due to the skewed distribution of income: for example, the top
20 percent of the population of Kinshasa represents at least 40 percent of
the city's total consumption. In addition, the income distribution is
inequitable not only in terms of relative shares, but also between
rural/urban dwellers as well as between chose employed in large pablic
enterprises (who benefit from subsidized social services such as health care
and education) and other workers 4/.
1.06       Public sector salaries are at a record low: in ten years (1975-
1985) the salary share of Government recurrent expenditures has declined
from 53 percent to 16 percent, occurring in parallel with increasing debt
service. In addition, salary distribution is distorted: high-level civil
servants receive wages 5 to 10 times higher than middle level civil
servants, and employees from large parastatals receive subsidies (such as
food and transport subsidies) much higher than most government salaries. In
the private sector, for comparable levels of skills, wages are 4 to 10 times
higher than salaries in the public service. As a result, government
employees are demotivated. Rural incomes are also low (estimated at US$130
per capita or 50 percent of the national average) and there are large
regional differences, mostly linked with the availabtlity of rural
infrastructure (feeder roads), the existence of markets and the extent of
control/taxes by local officicls. With regard to this situation, the
people's ingenuity and ability to cope have reached theit .Jmits and an
increasing number of families have difficulties paying for social services
(health care, education) and food. As a consequence, there is a decrease in
school and health facility attendance. This situation is worsened by the
economic deterioration and particularly the high inflation rate which erodes
real incomes of wage earners and the purchasing power of the majority of the
population. The population has coped with the economic crisis by increasing
informal sector activities; on average, wages represent only one third of
household's total income in Kinshasa. Increased recourse to extended family
assistance has also been a result of the crisis. Women, whose workload was
already heavy, are responsible for a large share of the incremental
unrecorded activities (trade, farming and others) with potentially negative
consequences for their health, their children's health and their family
life.
4/   For example, 20 percent of the country's population (employees of
enterprises and dependents) obtain health services which account for
70 percent of the health sector's recurrent expenditures.



II. SECTORAL ISSUES AND BANK ROLE
A. Sectoral Issues
Social. Policies and Public Spending
2.01        The Government has not focused enough on social sector policy
making and financing; this has contributed to the deterioration of soc'ial
programs and structures.   In the Health sector, public spending (including
salaries) has declined from 5 percent of Government recurrent expenditures
in 1978 to less than 2 percent in 1989. As a result, the government
contribution represents less than 5 percent of the recurrent expenditures of
this sector, an extremely low figure as compared to the Sub-Saharan Africa
average of 35 percent. In absolute terms, the Government spends around
US$0.33 per capita per year, the lowest figure among all low-income
countries where the average is around US$2.00. In the Education sector,
public spending as a share of Government recurrent expenditure has declined
from 24 percent in 1978 to 8 percent in 1989. In both sectors, the non-
salary share of the budget has become disproportionately small
(approximately 10 percent in both cases), with the consequence that
essential operational inputs (such as supervision, maintenance and in-
service training) are almost non existent. Non-governmental providers of
social services and scattered donor-supported projects, which are becoming
substitutes for government action, can fill only a portion of the void left
by the Government. As shown in Table I below, Zaire is far below the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa, and the Health and Education share of the central
budget is sharply declining.
TABLE I: Health and Education
Actual Exp%ndl tuGr as percent of Central Recurrent Budget
(excluding debt service)
1976-1979           1980-1985          1986-1989
Sub-Saharan Africa           21.8                21.4                n/a
IDA eligible SSA             n/a                 20.9               16.6
Zaire                        19.0                12.0               10.0
Source:     Public Expenditures, Resource Use and Social Services in Sub-Saharan Africa,
U. Gallagher and 0. Ogbu, August 1989, and African Economic and Social Data, 1989
UNDP/World Bank, Adapted.
2.02        As part of SAL I, the Government has been preparing PIP reviews
in order to identify a core investment program to be financed even under
severe budgetary constraints (Annex II). In the Health sector, non-viable
projects such as a specialized hospital in Kinshasa have been identified and
stopped. The core program aims at rehabilitating the basic infrastructure
and expanding primary health care and public health programs; in the medium
term a major community hospital rehabilitation program will be needed. In



- 6 -
the Education sector, there is no uneconomic project in the investment
program, but the overall level of investment (including foreign aid), is too
small for the rehabilitation needs. In both sectors, program implementation
is poor, on average 50 percent of planned investments.
Sector-Specific Situation and Issues
2.03       Health sector.   In 1989 life expectancy at birth was estimated
at 52 years, the crude death rate at 15 per 1,000, the infant mortality rate
(IMR) at 102 per 1,000, and the under-five mortality rate (U5MR) at 200 per
1,000. These figures are similar to those of the region. However, dramatic
variations exist between specific groups of population: for example, the IMR
is 33 per 1,000 among workers' families of GECAMINES (the large mining
company), 80 per 1,000 in Kinshasa, and can reach 200 per 1,000 in poor
rural areas. Maternal mortality is, on average, estimated at 6-7 per 1,000
live births, more than 50 times the rate observed in industrialized
countries. Infections and parasitic diseases cause at least 50 percent of
all deaths in Zaire (as compared, for example, to 1.5 percent in the USA).
Most tropical diseases are prevalent in Zaire, including malaria,
trypanosomiasis, onchocerciasis, and schistosomiasis. There is currently a
resurgence of these diseases (which had largely been controlled before
independence) mostly caused by the lack of adequate funding for control
programs. Malaria, a main cause of morbidity and mortality, becomes
increasingly difficult to control due to parasite resistance to drugs and
vector resistance to insecticide. Sexually transmitted diseases, including
AIDS, are spreading rapidly. The AIDS epidemic currently epresents the
most threatening public health problem in the urban areas of Zaire. In 1987
in Kinshasa, the seropositivity prevalence was estimated at 6-8 percent in
the general population. Among prostitutes, seropositivity prevalence was as
high as 30 percent. Assuming no decline in transmission rate by the year
2005, the infant mortality rate is likely to rise to 130 per 1,000, instead
of being reduced to 70 per 1,000 as previously projected. This would more
than wipe out any progress made through immunization and primary health care
(PHC).
2.04       The current National Health Policy soundly promotes universal
access to Primary Health Care (PHC) through a wide network of basic health
facilities and public health programs regrouped and coordinated into Health
Zones (HZs) 5/.    This policy did not come from a top-down approach but
from health care providers and consumers at the periphery: the national PHC
strategy progressively emerged from the chaotic post-independence period,
when most public facilities were not operational and medical services were
provided by religious groups, enterprises and dedicated health workers. For
several years, the wide diversity of health care providers which make the
Zairian health system unique in Sub-Saharan Africa, have succeeded in
5/   Each HZ covers a population of 100-150,000, based on administrative,
geographical, ethnic, operational and confessional criteria. Highly
decentralized management (by a small office) and high cost recovery
through user charges are essential characteristics.



maintaining a relatively high geographic health coverage (approximately 50
percent of the population, but economic access limits the actual coverage at
30 to 40 percent). The difficulty of buying medical supplies (particularly
essential drugs) constitutes a major constraint for effective and equitable
health care delivery.  Currently, overa.L. drug consumption per capita is
about US$1.0 (FOB prices) per year, one of the lowest figure in Africa, far
below minimal needs (estimated by WHO at US$3 per capita). In addition,
drug consumption is extremely inequitaDle: in 1987, the drug consumption of
employees and relatives (7 million people) who benefitted from medical
insurance was about US$3.5 (FOB prices) per capita, compared with the US$0.4
consumed by the remainder of the population (27 million people). To improve
on the current situation the Government needs to overcome: (a) the lack of
sufficient resource allocation to implement key public health programs; (b)
the absence of delineation of the respective roles of the governmental,
para-public and non-governmental entities in health care delivery; and (c)
the absence of social safety nets to insure an equitable distribution of
medical services and commodities. So far, in spite of an adequate national
policy, the Government, has failed to provide the financial resources and
guidance necessary to implement this policy.
2.05       In the Education sector, policy changes have been broad and
frequent. After independence, the Government, in order to cover its large
needs in high level administration staff, invested heavily in higher
education, at the expense of primary and secondary education which was left
almost entirely to religious missions. In 1974, the nationalization of the
education system triggered an abrupt withdrawal of the church's financial
involvement in primary/secondary education, which was not compensated by
increased public spending. Since the early 1980s, the Government has
initiated a set of reforms aimed at restoring the performance of primary and
secondary education.  In 1986, the Government promulgated a "Loi Cadre" to
lay out the legal framework covering the entire education system. The law
is supposed to define the respective responsibilities of the public and
private sectors (including beneficiaries). However, the delineation remains
ambiguous on financial management responsibilities and leaves the churches
reluctant to invest in the education sector. Overall, the Education sector
faces problems which are somewhat similar to those in the Health sector: (a)
public spending on education has declined considerably in both real terms
and as a share of total expenditures; (b) user contributions (on average
US$13 per student per year at the primary level and three times as much at
the secondary level) as a percentage of total household expenditures are
already extremely high and cannot be increased in most cases; and (c) the
coordination between the central administration and the NGOs involved in
education is poor, in contrast with the usual good collaborat-'on at the
local level.
Intersectoral Issues
2.06       Widespread malnutrition, specifically among children and women,
is one of the most visible signs of the prevalent poverty in Zaire. The
causes of poverty constitute a complex web of interrelated and mutually
reinforcing factors among which macroeconomic mismanagement stands in the
forefront. Among the other causes, the population pressure (particularly in



- 8 -
the eastern part of the country), rising unemployment (mostly in urban
areas), insufficient food availability in certain rural and peri-urban
areas, and che poor social status of women are particularly important. This
set of interrelated poverty determinants requires from the Government
increased political commitment, policy decisions, specific actions and
monitoring.
2.07       The population growth rate has accelerated markedly since the
1950s, from an annual average rate of less than 1 percent to 3 percent since
the mid-80s. For the past ten years, the population growth rate has been
significantly higher than the economic growth rate, resulting in a declining
GDP per capita. Beyond its effect on per capita income statistics, rapid
population growth exerts other pressures on the development of Zaire. The
dependency ratio is high (100 percent in 1988) and has an impact at the
family level since poverty is increased by the reduction of resources per
capita. The annual increase in the labor force is twice as high as the
increase in formal employment (on average 1.5 percent per year). In the
agricultural sector, population pressure is already having a negative
environmental impact in some parts of the country (particularly in Kivu,
where person/land ratios are close to 300/km2) leading to erosion and
reduced tree cover. The rapid urbanization is also a problem since
investment in urban infrastructure (housing, electricity, transport, water,
sanitation, education, health, etc.) is not keeping up with the annual 7
percent increase in urban population. In the Education and Healt'h sectors,
the rapid population growth and young age structure require large
investments to make these sectors responsive to needs.   To date,
Government's efforts to address population-related issues have been
inadequate. The national population policy and action plan issued in draft
in August 1988 still await governmental clearance. The National Family
Planning (FP) program is still in its early stages and has a negligible
impact on the population (about 2 percent modern contraceptive prevalence
rate).
2.08       Unemployment and underemployment are matters of serious concerv
in urban and peri-urban areas, which are relatively developed in Zaire
(about 40 percent of the populatior). The economically active population is
about 16 million, of which about 10 million are employed in subsistence
agriculture. Approximately 1.2 million people are employed in the modern
sector, leaving a potential workforce of 4.8 million in the informal sector.
In the modern sector, the largest employer is the government (300,000)
followed by GECAMINES (40,000) and other large state-owned companies.
Formal wage increases have not followed price escalation, which has averaged
50 percent annually since 1973.   As a result, the purchasing power of the
population has been deciining steadily, particularly among public sector
employees. Wages are so low that the main reason many people continue
formal wage employment is for the health, education, housing and
transportation benefits that are associated with it. The real wage index
has dropped from 100 in the base year of 1975 to 34 in the private sector
and 14 in the public sector in 1988.
2.09       The failure of wages to keep pace with inflation is a major
reason for high absenteeism and low productivity, since employees have to



- 9 -
supplement their income by trading (urban areas) and farming (rural areas).
This situation has a negative effect on the implementation of development
programs because the managers and executants of these programs have to spend
much of their working hours on earning a living through extra professional
activities.   To overcome the low-wage constraint most donor-supported
projects (including IDA-supported operations) include a system of salary
supplements to allow the personnel to perform adequately their tasks. This
approach, which serves the purpose of avoiding unacceptable delays in
project implementation, raises questions with regard to sustainability,
equity among civil servants and consistency among various donor agencies. So
far, the Government's responses to this worrisome situation have had no
significant impact. The absence of a coherent employment policy, combined
with resource limitations, has prevented attempts to reconcile either
national employment needs with education or the demand for labor in the
private sector with supply.
2.10       In addition to the prevalent poverty, another cause of the
widespread malnutrition is stagnant food production per inhabitant, caused
by multiple factors among which the poor marketing possibilities (in
particular due to the lack of feeder roads) is a particularly strong
disincentive. Other factors contributing to malnutrition include close
pregnancies, the poor overall status of women (low education level,
overwork) and health factors. Until recently, the Government had made no
attempt to develop national policies and strategies to tackle these issues.
B. Bank Group Operations and Strategy
Objectives and Strategy
2.11       The main obiectives of IDA in Zaire are to increase the supply
response to the improved incentive structure, while taking into account
social development issues. Constraints on supply response include: the
shortage of foreign exchange and credit for the private sector; excessive
government interference; inadequate public expenditure levels, composition
and quality; transportation and other infrastructure bottlenecks; and the
unfavorable investment climate. IDA would assist the Government in
implementing strategies to reduce poverty, improve public health, food
security, access to and quality of education, and enhance the role of women
in development. The country assistance strategy builds on a core program of
investment projects intended to preserve the long-term development potential
of Zaire in the absence of adjustment, and expands to a larger investment
program and policy lending in the event of a vigorous implementation of the
adjustment program. However, the successful implementation of the country
assistance strategy is heavily dependent upon the state of the policy
dialogue between Zaire and the Bank.
The Status of the Policy Dialogue
2.12       Policy dialogue between the Bank and Zaire has gone through
several periods of ups and down over the last decade, reflecting the uneven



- 10 -
management of the country's economy and the authorities' difficulties to
implement sustainee structural adjustment policies. Over the last twelve
months, the dialogue has focussed primarily on public expenditures, both in
size and composition, as it is now recognized that growth prospects will not
improve without a substantial shift in public expenditure allocation and
control. Repeated misallocation of public expenditures and the Government's
insufficient performance in implementing adjustment policies has delayed the
implementation of many IDA-supported investment projects.
2.13        In the immediate future, the public expenditure management issue
will be an important element of the Bank's dialogue with Zaire. However,
the political authorities have not yet endorsed proposals to strengthen the
management of public expenditure. A heavy political agenda is expected in
Zaire over the next twelve months in connection with recent pronouncements
of separation of the Party and State, gradual introduction of a multi-party
system, and a revision of the Constitution. Issues such as the Government's
role in development and public expenditure management are high on the
political agenda. In the meantime, the dialogue with the authorities will
be pursued through discussions of the Bank's sectoral reports on public
expenditure, private sector incentives, and trade and transport
facilitation.
The Lending Program
2.14       Since 1951, Zaire has received ten IBRD loans for a total amount
of US$301 million, and 54 IDA credits for a total amount of US$1,225
million. Since 1968, IBRD loans were limited to financing enclave copper
mining projects (GECAMINES). Bank Group operations have financed physical
and social infrastructure, key production activities, and institution-
building. Agriculture accounted for about 9 percent, transport 32 percent,
mining and industry 36 percent, energy 10 percent, and human resources and
social sectors 3 percent. Structural adjustment lending accounted for 10
percent.  There have been nine IFC investments in Zaire, the most recent
being an investment in the KIMIN project (gold mining at Kilomoto).  IFC
also has a US$1.3 million equity participation in SOFIDE (development
finance).
2.15       The current portfolio includes 25 IDA credits and the IBRD-
financed GECAMINES rehabilitation project.  Disbursement performance
deteriorated in FY89 due to the delayed second tranche release of the
Structural Adjustment Credit, the slow disbursement of the GECAMINES loan,
and the suspension of several credits. Overall disbursement fell from
US$206 million in FY88 to US$136 million in FY89, and to US$127 million in
FY90. Three credits were suspended: the Sixth Highway project because the
mobilization of local resources through an earmarked levy on fuel proved
elusive; the river navigation project because of financial irregularities
attributed to the management of the executing agency; and the credit li.e
with SOFIDE because of the deteriorating portfolio of the corporation (over
90 percent of its portfolio is affected by arrears of more than three
months). However, progress has been recently made towards restoring local
financing of the road rehabilitation project and improving the management of



- 11 -
the river navigation company, permitting to lift the suspension of
disbursements for these credits in early 1990.
Collaboration with Other Donors
2.16       The Government and the Bank are undertaking a close dialogue on
social sector issues with other multilateral and bilateral agencies,
including UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO, ILO, USAID, the Italian Cooperation, the
Belgian Cooperation, French Cooperation and Canadian Cooperation. In
particular, UNDP has already accepted to finance a TA project and cofinance
selected project activities. UNICEF is particularly interested in essential
drug supply and mother and child protection (through WID activities). Both
USAID and the Belgian cooperation, which have been supporting a wide range
of services at the Health Zone level, are important potential contributors
to Health policy development and implementation at the community level.
However, in the case of Belgium there has been a suspension of cooperation
agreements since July 1990 for divergence of views between the two
governments. Regarding the AfDB, an exchange of views on Health sector
strategies has already taken place in Abidjan (October 1988) and follow-up
discussions on AfDB/IDA collaboration were carried out in the field in March
1989, during an AfDB pre-investment mission. The Government held a Social
Sector Round Table on October 30-31, 1989, to present its social sector
assistance program to the donor community and raise additional resources.
III - THE PROJECT
A. Concept and Objectives
3.01       The proposed operation has been conceived to provide an
immediate response to the urgent social needs of the population. Its
identification and preparation represent an important effort of Zairian
agencies (both public and non-governmental) to establish a Social Sector
Program (Programme d'Alustement des Secteurs Sociaux - PASS) which would
constitute the initial phase of a comprehensive medium and long-term social
sector rehabilitation process aimed at strengthening the human capital of
Zaire. The PASS will be a central element of the second five-year
development plan (1991 - 1995). The proposed project would provide a major
support to the social sector reform and human capital protection activities
that the PASS promotes and intends to coordinate and monitor.
Identification and preparation of the Projer be-efitted from recent Bank
sector reports on PHN (June 1988), Education (Au,tst 1988), Urban (March
1988), Agriculture (June 1988), and from extensive public expenditure
reviews. The design benefitted also from the SDA Country Assessment Paper
(Poverty aspects of Zaire, July 1990). Identification of the main areas of
policy changes, institutional reforms and program support which could form
the basis for a social sector operation took place in October 1988. In
order to design and to monitor preparation and implementation of the
operation, the Government set up an interministerial task force under the
chairmanship of the Prime Minister. The Planning Ministry was in charge of



- 12 -
the Technical Secretariat of the Task Force. In December 1988, a mission
visited Kinshasa to assess the various intersectoral contributions and
assist the Government in preparation of this operation. In March 1989, a
pre-appraisal mission reviewed the most advanced proposals, including a
draft letter of social policy (the updated version is in Annex III). Since
April 1989, the Government has received a US$1,500,000 PPF advance to
support further preparation, including local and foreign technical
assistance. Appraisal of the proposed operation was completed in July 1989.
The project was initially conceived of as a hybrid operation, including
quick disbursing balance of payments support. However, in response to the
deteriorating country performance in 1990 the Bank decided to suspend all
new adjustment operations. In this context, in collaboration with the
project preparation team, the proposed operation w.s redesigned as an
investment operation and downsized.
3.02       The proposed operation has the following objectives: (a) to
protect vulnerable population groups from the social effects of a
deteriorating economic situation through: (i) the establishment of special
budgetary allocations to basic medical care and primary education; and (ii)
the mobilization of increased participation from NGOs in delivering social
services; (b) to maintain, in collaboration with other donors, essential
public health, nutrition and family planning programs, in order to avoid
further deterioration in the health status of the population; and (c) to
prepare projects and programs in the social sectors by developing new
policies on women-in-development, population and environment, and by
establishing a national capability for collecting and analyzing social
indicators. These objectives are complementary to those of the proposed
Education Sector Rehabilitation Project which is expected to be financed by
IDA and will be implemented in parallel with this operation.
3.03       The overall project strategy has been designed to respond to the
current unstable situation of Zaire and the peculiar characteristics of its
social services, that are mostly delivered by the non-governmental sector,
as described in the background section. With regard to social sectors, this
situation will emphasize the fact that most public services are efficiently
provided by private agencies (including NGOs and nion-profit organizations)
and semi-autonomous public institutions, such as the social departments of
large public enterprises. Another element taken into consideration in the
project strategy is that the Government's inability to adjust macroeconomic
imbalances is most likely to induce a recession particularly damaging for
the poorest segments of the population. This situation has several
strategic implications, including: (a) giving non-governmental organizations
(and effective parastatals) a leading role in implementing project
activities; (b) establishing a strong and independent Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) which should be protected from unduly interference of the
Government's administration; (c) setting up an intensive monitoring system
which would ensure that the proceeds of the credit do reach the intended
beneficiaries; (d) establishing an effective collaboration mechanism with
other donors involved in the social sectors; and (e) financing by external
sources of a large share of the recurrent costs of this operation since
counterpart funds are likely to be scarce during project implementation. As
designed, the proposed project would constitute the first phase of a



- 13 -
sequence of social sector lending aimed at strengthening human capital on a
long-term basis.
B. Prolect Description
Part A: Support of Social Sector Reform (US$5.8 million)
3.04       The general objective of this component is to provide the
necessary inputs for initiating and supporting a social sector reform which
will aim at: (a) restructuring public spending towards more efficient and
more equitable social programs; (b) delineating and rationalizing the
specific roles of non-governmental and governmental institutions in social
service financing and delivery; and (c) providing an adequate framework and
data base for larger investments in the social sectors. The essence of the
proposed strategy is to: (a) increase and target government social
expenditures towards high priority social needs; (b) improve the performance
of central government agencies in policy development, standard setting,
quality control and overall monitoring, while avoiding unnecessary
government interference in the management of NGOs; (c) reduce the
Government's role in social service delivery to services not covered by the
non-governmental sector; (d) increase and rationalize the role of the
private sector (particularly non-profit providers) in social service
delivery through contracting and purchasing of services by the Government;
and (e) promote and develop new social policies and strategies. The project
would contribute to the social sector reform and the implementation of the
necessary changes by providing essential inputs organized in three types of
activities: rationalization of the Government's role in social sectors,
social surveys and studies, and pilot projects. The main elements of the
policy reforms are summarized in a Social Sector Development Program (Annex
III), prepared by the Ministry of Planning.
Rationalization of Government Role in Social Sectors (US$3.9 million)
3.05       This project component aims at providing key public and
parapublic institutions involved in the social sector reform with the
necessary tools for: (a) supporting and monitoring priority social programs;
(b) designing and implementing new policies for social development; (c)
collaborating with the private sector (including NGOs) for a more efficient
delivery of social services; and (d) preparing larger investments in the
social sectors. Project support will be selective, targeted at a few
ministerial and parastatal entities which have the ability to contribute
most efficiently to the implementation of the social sector reform and whose
technical functions would remain essential even in the event of ministerial
changes and re-organizations. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will play
an essential role in leading, coordinating and monitoring these activities.
Assistance to these entities will be provided on the basis of detailed work
plans with specific objectives, outputs and indicators which would allow the
PCU to closely monitor performance and progress and thereby allocate
accordingly the necessary resources. Capacity building activities would
include short-term consultancy and expert services, in-service training,



- 14 -
basic training and operational support. Ultimately, this component will
permit the constitution of a core team of professionals with operational
capabilities for carrying out the necessary social reform.
3.06        Increasing and Targeting Public Funding for Health and
Education. As part of project preparation, the Government has agreed to
provide (starting with the 1990 budget) special recurrent budgetary
allocations to support the delivery of basic health and education services.
This action is justified by the need for: (i) stopping the decline in public
spending on health and education; and (ii) allocating incremental resources
towards services which benefit the poor. A detailed justification and
description of these budgetary allocations is given in Annex IV and their
financial impact is summarized in para. 5.05. The PCU will coordinate the
establishment and monitoring of these allocations with the Ministers of
Finance, Budget and Planning, the Central Bank (where special accounts are
located) and the two line ministries, Health and Education. The project
will provide the necessary technical assistance and operational support to:
(i) establish annual financial targets on the basis of criteria prepared by
the line ministries; (ii) ensure availability of funds in the special
Central Bank accounts; and (iii) monitor the financial and physical
execution.
3.07       Given the importance of these special Health and Education
Budgetary allocations as indicators of progress of the social sector reform,
during negotiations, assurance was obtained from the Government that, with
regard to the special budgetary allocations to Health and Education: (a)
their amounts and composition would be discussed with IDA not later than
October 31 of each year of project implementation; (b) they would appear
earmarked as specific budgetary items in the National Budget; and (c) their
execution rate would be monitored as part of project implementation
(para.7.01(a)). The 1991 budgetary allocations are currently being reviewed
by IDA.   To participate effectively in these activities, the Ministry of
Education would benefit from the comprehensive institutional strengthening
component of the proposed Education Sector Rehabilitation Project (to be
implemented in parallel with the proposed project). Within the Ministry of
Health, the National Health Fund (Fonds National Medico Sanitaire - FONAMES)
would benefit from project support. FONAMES, a parastatal institution
created in 1986 to support the implementation of the national primary health
care strategy, will have the mandate to (i) select (on the basis of specific
criteria) the Health Zones (HZs) which should receive the targeted budgetary
allocations; and (ii) monitor the implementation, usage and impact of these
allocations. The project would provide FONAMES with the necessary
operational support to carry ouL its mandate, including the establishment of
a nationwide radio communication system allowing daily exchanges of
information with the entire primary health care network.
3.08       Developing Intersectoral Social Policies.  The project will
support the development of intersectoral social policies while mutually
reinforcing positive effects on the nation's human capital. These policies
relate to: (a) population issues, family welfare and women-in-development
(WID); (b) nutrition and food security; and (c) environment, with a special
consideration for public health and human ecology. The project will provide



- 15 -
support to two entities with an important role to play in the development
and implementation of the national population policy and WID action plan.
The Population Unit of the Ministry of Planning (Cellule de Coordination des
Activites en Matiere de Population - CECAP) and the Ministry of Women and
Family's Affairs (Ministare de la Condition de la Femme et de la Famille -
CONDIFFA). The CECAP would benefit from technical assistance (demographer,
economist and statistician) and operational support (including
decentralization of their activities at the regional level) to:(i) improve
the national population policy proposal and related action plans; and (ii)
disseminate information to relevant decision-makers, political leaders,
technicians of the national institute of statistics (INS) and sectoral
program and project managers. CONDIFFA, through project support, will
develop its normative, planning and coordinating roles while improving its
promotion functions. Specifically, institutional strengthening of CONDIFFA
would focus on (a) the Study and Planning Unit which would be responsible
for (i) further elaboration, monitoring and evaluation of the national WID
action plan; (ii) establishing a data bank on the status of women, in
collaboration with the institutions that will carry out social surveys
(para. 3.17); and (iii) reviewing the replicability of pilot projects and
initiatives (para. 3.21); and (b) the Information Center of which the main
responsibility is to promote gender issue awareness in all sectors.
3.09       The National Nutrition Planning Center (Centre de Planification
de la Nutrition - CEPLANUT) will receive project support (technical
assistance, operational support) to finalize a nutrition and food security
policy which addresses two major sets of issues: (i) the food security
situation (including food expenditures and repartitions at the household
level, food production and distribution, quality of diets, etc.); and (ii)
the prevalence of health and other social conditions contributing to
malnutrition (diseases, close pregnancies, overwork of women, etc.). The
main areas of the national policy should include: (i) assessing on a regular
basis the overall nutrition status of the population and the relative
weights of the key factors leading to malnutrition; (ii) defining the
Government's role in nutrition and food security interventions and the means
of undertaking this role in collaboration with NGOs; (iii) strengthening and
expanding effective on-going nutrition activities, mostly carried out by
NGOs at the community level; (iv) identifying the most cost-effective
package of nutrition-related interventions; and (v) reviewing agricultural
policies with a focus on family food production, technical and financial
support to women food producers, pulses and oil production and diffusion of
less toxic varieties of cassava. CEPLANUT will have an important
coordinating role with regard to monitoring the promotion of nutrition and
food security activities at the community level (para. 3.35).
3.10       Regarding the environment, the project will focus its support on
a few capacity-building actions that are necessary before initiating large-
scale environmental protection programs. A particular importance will be
given to health-related environmental issues. Target groups for these
actions would be decision-makers in relevant ministries (such as the
ministries of Health, Agriculture and Rural Development) and selected
communities where pilot actions would be tested. The Ministry of
Environment (DAFCEN) would receive technical assistance for: (a) preparing a



- 16 -
National Environment Action Plan; (b) initiating and monitoring an
information, education and communication campaign on environmental issues to
be carried out by selected NGOs and private groups; and (c) assessing the
potential for expansion of pilot projects (para. 3.22) on (i) sanitation in
urban areas; (ii) pesticide management; and (iii) the introduction of new
techniques for environmental protection. These activities are complementary
to the preparation of the IDA-supported Forestry and Environmental Project
(FY93). They are also complementary and supportiv_. of the health programs
described in Part B of the proposed operation.
3.11       Building-up Statistical Capabilities.  The Statistical Unit of
the Ministry of Agriculture will receive technical and operational support
to carry out social surveys in rural areas, analyze the data collected and
disseminate the results. Several other institutions with statistical
capabilities including the National Institute of Statistics (Institut
National des Statistiques - INS), other public institutions and selected
private firms, may benefit from operational sup-port when contracted by the
PCU to carry out specific surveys and studies. In particular, the National
Institute of Social Security (Institut National de Securite Sociale - INSS)
would receive support to analyze social data on formal sector employees. In
addition, the human resource departments of large public and private
enterprises would be requested to share with the PCU their social indicators
(including health statistics) that they collect on a routine basis.
Social Surveys and Studies (US$1.1 million)
3.12       The overall objective of this sub-component is to support the
Government's efforts to: (a) identify target groups through the production
of key socioeconomic indicators describing the situation of different groups
of households; (b) establish and maintain a set of indicators allowing to
assess on a national scale the living standards of the population; and (c)
undertake studies to analyze household behavior and make recommendations on
policy issues in order to provide a conceptual framework for social policy
development.
3.13       Priority Household Surveys.  They are relatively simple
household surveys which will: (i) provide a quick indication of the location
and socio-economic profile of different groups that are potentially
vulnerable; and (ii) provide a mechanism whereby key socio-economic
variables can be easily identified and periodically reviewed. The
methodology and type of questionnaire would follow the pattern of similar
methodologies used in other African countries where social surveys are
underway, however the design will be tailored to the Zairian needs and
implementing capabilities of the institutions involved. The priority survey
is designed to provide relatively rapidly an assessment of the social
situation. The scope of the questionnaire will be multi-subject, however no
topic will be addressed in detail in order to produce key indicators in a
timely fashion. The structure of the questionnaire is simple, data will be



- 17 -
collected during a single visit and the duration of the interview will not
exceed one hour. 6/
3.14        In the rural areas, the statistical unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture (Service d'Etudes et de Planification - SEP) would have the
overall responsibility for carrying out the rural surveys. The SEP has been
providing timely agricultural statistics for several years and therefore the
overall functional structure (vehicles, equipment, supplies and trained
staff) and adequate institutional capabilities (including technical
assistance) are already in place. The social data collection and analysis
would be added to the existing framework used for agricultural statistics.
The existing sample frame of 12,150 households will be used and the survey
will be administered annually to assess changes in the living conditions of
rural households. Field operations are expected to begin in September 1991,
and the first results could be obtained as early as March 1992.   The
project would provide the necessary incremental operational funding and
would assist in disseminating the results.
3.15        In urban areas, the data collection structure is virtually non
existent. The INS has an already heavy work schedule, including income and
expenditure surveys financed by an on-going IDA financed project (PRAIGEFI).
Given the importance in obtaining data on urban householis, several punctual
surveys will be undertaken in the major cities. On a case by case basis,
the PCU would seek technical as well as operational assistance from various
institutions with statistical capabilities, including INS to undertake the
surveys.
3.16       The analysis of the data  provided by the surveys will establish
the general framework that will assist decision-makers in ascertaining the
location and immediate needs of vulnerable population groups. Better
targeted priority actions will be proposed for the groups in question while
more focused development and longer-term policies will be initiated to solve
existing social problems. In particular, the results of the surveys will be
used in designing future operations in the health, education, agriculture
and urban sectors as well as specific poverty alleviation programs. In
addition, the surveys will allow the identification of the key social
indicators that should be monitored on a permanent basis by the statistical
units of line Ministries such as Health, Education and Labor. Finally, the
repetition of these surveys will allow to obtain time-series on overall
trends of the general social situation of the country.
3.17       Socioeconomic Studies.  These would aim at analyzing the
causality leading to poverty and identifying specific poverty-alleviation
strategies. Topics that have been identified are: (a) household food
security; (b) socio-economic impact of the IDA-supported pilot feeder-roads
project on rural households; (c) the role of community-based savings and
loan cooperatives in the promotion of employment in the informal sector; (d)
integration of women in the economy; and (e) promotion of community-based
6/   A more detailed description of the priority household surveys is
provided in Annex V.



- 18 -
insurance schemes. These studies will be carried out by various research
groups such as the University of Kinshasa's socioeconom~tic research institute
(Institut de Recherche Economigue et Sociale - IRES) and selected private
consulting firms either domestic or international.
3.18       With regard to the overall implementation of this sub-component,
the PCU will have the responsibility of coordinating the various activities
in order to avoid overlaps and ensure timeliness in the production of
results. In particular, a User's Committee would be put in place by the
PCU, in order to: (i) prioritize the needs; (ii) allocate resources for the
surveys; and (iii) play a key role in the dissemination of social indicators
that will be produced by the SEP, INS, INSS, the University and the
statistical units of line Ministries among others. In terms of the studies,
the PCU will have the responsibility for the approval of terms of reference,
allocation of funds, and making decisions on additional pertinent study
topics during the course of project implementation.
Pilot Projects (US$0.8 million).
3.19       These small-scale experiments, while diverse, share certain
common goals, including: (a) reaching the poorest population groups; (b)
assisting women in domestic and income-generating activities; and (c)
supporting grass-root, community-based, and NGO initiatives. With the
exception of the promotion of community-based health insurance, IDA would
not play a leading role in these projects and initiatives, which are already
supported and monitored by various donors (UNDP, UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, EEC,
French Cooperation) but IDA would co-finance these operations, on the basis
of feasibility studies which have been carried out during project
preparation.   The execution of these projects would be evaluated as part of
the overall project monitoring system, to assess their potential for future
expansion. If certain activities prove to be successful and have a positive
impact on their target groups, the donors (including IDA) would assist the
respective implementing agencies to expand their activities on a larger
scale. The areas of intervention are described below.
3.20       Community-Based and NGO Projects (US$0.2 million).  The PCU
along with UNDP technical assistance, has prepared a program to explore, at
the micro level, the potential impact of grassroots initiatives on social
conditions of communities. The main elements of the strategy are to: (a)
select between 20 and 30 small scale community-based or NGO projects with
social development objectives; (b) improve the technical quality of the
project proposals; (c) provide the necessary grant (maximum around
US$30,000); and (d) monitor the project execution. The selection of
projects will be done by the project coordinating unit and it will be guided
by a set of technical criteria (such as expected social impact, equity
considerations, externalities and others) but also by the need to explore
diverse types of activities in various regions. UNDP will provide technical
assistance for reviewing the proposals and monitoring the implementation of
the various projects. Ultimately, an assessment will be made of the
replicability of such initiatives on a larger scale.



- 19 -
3.21       Dissemination of Appropriate Technologies for Women (US$0.1
million). An overview and assessment of various government and NGO
initiatives in disseminating appropriate technologies was carried out during
project preparation. An action program combining further dissemination of
information, operational research and expansion of successful existing
interventions should be ready before credit effectiveness. The areas of
intervention would include: (a) the development of a household energy
strategy; (b) appropriate food production and processing technologies; and
(c) income generating activities. The main objectives of these activities
would be to reduce women's time constraints, diminish their workload and
increase their access to income-generating assets. The projects would be
carried out by NGOs (such as the Centre d'Information et de Documentation
pour les Technologies Appropriees - CEDITA).
3.22       Pilot Projects on Environment (US$0.2 million).  The proposed
activities would follow up on studies carried out as part of project
preparation to test the feasibility of: (a) improving sanitation in selected
densely populated urban areas; (b) improving pesticide management by setting
up a pilot system in the Matadi-Kinshasa area to inventory existing stocks
of pesticides, means of disposal and disposal procedures for pesticide
containers and obsolete pesticide stocks; and (c) improving land and water
conservation by introducing in selected geographic areas a new set of
techniques aimed at addressing certain environmental problems (such as slash
and burn agriculture, fuelwood gathering and water management). These
projects would be executed by the Ministry of Environment which would
benefit from specific institutional strengthening under the project.
3.23       Community-based Health Insurance Schemes (US$0.3 million).  On
the basis of the analysis carried out as part of project preparation, 71 the
following actions would be carried out during program implementation: (a)
pilot testing of direct insurance schemes (where the health care provider
also provides the insurance program) in selected rural areas (criteria have
been established during the feasibility study) and in Kinshasa (hospital-
based insurance plan for civil servants); (b) training in the basic concepts
and administrative aspects of health insurance would be offered at the
Kinshasa School of Public Health; (c) data collection to monitor the
performance of pilot experiences; and (d) operational research to study more
appropriate insurance schemes, particularly for hospital care. This program
would be implemented by consultants to the PCU, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Health, FONAMES and the Miniscry of Labor and Welfare.
3.24       Training and operational research would focus on the following
areas: (a) terms of the insurance plan, including the types of services
covered and the level of premiums; (b) organization and management,
including qual'ty of services, promotional strategies, decentralized
management, impreo'ed accounting and control and use of financial guarantors;
(c) resource mobilization, including linkages with formal (Cooperative
7/   Health insurance in Zaire, Shepard, Vian and Kleinau, PRE Working
Papers, August 1990.



- 20 -
d'Epargne et de Credits - COOPEC) or informal (Likelemba, Moziki) savings
and loans associations which would receive the necessary training in
portfolio management; and (d) utilization, access and impact on the quality
of health services. The project will provide short-term technical
assistance to monitor each pilot project's progress in these areas. A
national seminar on this topic will be held after three years of operational
research.
Part B: Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN) Programs (US$19.6 million)
3.25       The main purpose of this component is to respond quickly to the
basic needs of population groups which are currently poorly served by public
health and social services. The Project will support selective programs
which are on-going and have been reviewed either during the PHN sector
review or during project preparation. These programs have been selected on
the basis of the following criteria: (a) their priority in terms of public
health; (b) the existence of an adequate managerial structure and
implementation capacity; (c) several years of implementation and at least
one evaluation report; and (d) a proposal for project support including
objectives, strategies, proposition of action plans, detailed cost estimates
and an implementation schedule. The Project would provide funds for
medicines, vehicles, equipment, supplies, technical assistance, operational
research, operating costs and, to a limited extent, minor rehabilitation of
facilities.
Public Health Programs (US$15.3 million).
3.26       The proposed programs aim at: (a) increasing PHC coverage and
service quality in rural and urban (Kinshasa only) areas through a
strengthening of the Health Zone (HZ) system; and (b) expanding the coverage
of priority public health programs including immunization, tuberculosis,
leprosy and trypanosomiasis control. All these programs already exist but
require budgetary support for investments (training, equipment, technical
assistance and some infrastructure rehabilitation). The potential impact of
the support to these programs is high: for example HZ coverage would
increase from 50 to 60 percent of the potential target population and
immunization coverage would increase from 40 percent to 50 percent. In
rural areas, the HZ expansion program will be carried out by a large NGO
(Eglise du Christ au Zaire - ECZ) as an experiment for enhancing
Government/NGO collaboration. ECZ, a protestant churches organization is
the second largest (after the Catholic Church) religious group, providing
approximately 35 percent of health and social services. ECZ has been
involved in the proposed project since its identification because the ECZ's
medical department was looking for resources to expand their activities in
50HZs. The Catholic Church and the Kimbanguist Church have also expressed
interest in the project but they were not planning to expand their programs
at this stage. If the collaboration with ECZ proves to be successful, it is
likely that the other churches would seek involvement in future operations.



- 21 -
3.27       Improving PHC Coverage.  The project will provide support to
certain urban and rural health zones (HZ) in particular need of essential
equipment and medical supplies. In Kinshasa, the project will assist the
Proiet Sante pour Tous (PSPT) to expand their coverage on 10 HZs including
the functional rehabilitation of 36 health centers. Established in 1982 to
respond to basic medical needs of the population of Kinshasa, this project
has been successful in establishing primary health care services in 12 HZs
of Kinshasa.   These services mostly benefit the poorer segments of the
population who do not have access to private health care or to medical
services of enterprises. The proposed operation would provide the PSPT with
the capital and recurrent funding needed for covering within four years the
entire Kinshasa area. The PSPT management has proven to be effective and
should be able to carry out efficiently this expansion.
3.28       In rural areas, the project would support the efforts of the
Eglise du Christ au Zaire (ECZ) to expand the quality of services in 30 to
40 HZs where the ECZ already intervenes. Major project inputs will include
a limited physical rehabilitation of certain referral hospitals, health
centers and pharmaceutical warehouses, in addition to providing equipment,
vehicles, medical supplies and training. 'The program implementation will be
under the responsibility of the medical department of the ECZ which already
manages the support to all health facilitta run by protestant churches.
These facilities represent about one thir. af the total primary health care
infrastructure in Zaire.
3.29       Support to Priority Communicable Disease Control Programs.  The
project would provide operational support . , the Expanded Program of
Immunization (EPI), Ti berculosis, Leprosy c,  Trypanosomiasis control. All
these programs have independent managerial structures and are supported by
international organizations. However, thieiz xpansion (or even their
maintenance such as in the case of trypanosaimx isis) is limited by
insufficient funding for both capital and re'- u.r rent costs that the proposed
operation intends to provide on the basis of annual plans of actions and
budgets. For the EPI, technical assistance will be provided by USAID and
UNICEF. Tuberculosis and leprosy controls are supported by international
NGOs (Raoul Follereau and Pere Damien, respect'vely).  With regard to
Trypanosomiasis, local expertise will have to be strengthened with WHO
support because the Belgian technical assistance was stopped.
Family Planning and Safe Motherhood Program (US$2.0 million).
3.30       An expansion of the nr.tional FP program is proposed, both
geographically and conceptually. The program would expand from 14 urban
areas to include 50 rural HZs (an additional population coverage of
approximately 5 million people) and would diversify its activities.
Community-based distribution of contraceptives (already experimented
successfully on a small scale basis with support from Tulane University)
would be launched in at least 4 regions. NGOs (such as the IPPF-supported



- 22 -
AZBEF) 8/ and private providers will participate in this global effort. In
addition, safe motherhood activities (in particular pre- and post-natal care
and health education) will be introduced as part of the training and
supervision package and implemented through the HZ network.
3.31       Family Planning Service Expansion.  The project would provide
operational support to about 50 FP units integrated in rural health
facilities. These units will receive the necessary inputs (equipment,
supplies, training, supervision) to provide a package of services including
FP, maternal care and early referral system of high risk pregnancies. These
services will be complemented by a ;ommunity-based distribution of
contraceptives, on a pilot basis in several rural areas. The management of
the program will be under the responsibility of the National Planning
Project (Projet de Services des Naissances Desirables - PSND) a semi-
autonomous entity which benefits from USAID support, particularly in terms
of financial management.
3.32       Safe Motherhood Activities.  The project will contribute to the
execution of this worldwide initiative supported by the international
community. While access and use of FP and maternal care services are
already major determinants of a safe motherhood, cross-sectoral information,
promotion and training activities are necessary. The project will support
various groups (both public and private) to channel safe motherhood concerns
to the most peripheral levels of the Zairian society. Since these groups
are numerous (already ten have been identified) and diverse, the PSND
management at both central and regional levels will play a coordinating
role.
Nutrition Activities (US$2.3 million).
3.33       The proposed operation would support two major activities in
areas where malnutrition problems are particularly acute. The first
activity concerns the national Iodine Deficiency Control Program, which was
initiated in 1989 but lacks investment funds. The target areas are the
northern part of Equateur, Haut Zaire and Kivu, where at least 6 million
people are at risk (goiters, reduced life expectancy, cretinism). The
second activity concerns the promotion of nutrition activities and family
food production in 11 sub-regions which meet certain criteria: widespread
malnutrition, existing community-based action programs, and presence of NGOs
or local leaders willing to participate. These activities are part of the
National Nutrition and Food Security Strategy and Program that the
Government wants to establish and implement through the support of CEPLANUT.
3.34       Support to Iodine Deficiency Control.  The project contribution
will follow a two-pronged strategy: (a) immediate provision of iodized oil
(orally or by injection) in areas of high endemicity of iodine deficiency;
8/   International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) is the world's
largest NGO supporting Family Planning activities. L'Association
Zairoise du Bien-Etre Familial (AZBEF) is a local branch.



- 23 -
and (b) importation or local production of iodized salt as a medium and long
term measure. The provision of iodized oil will be integrated in the EPI in
order to minimize the cost of delivery. The project will cover the
incremental costs to reach a larger population target than EPI usually
covers. With regard to salt iodation, the project will finance feasibility
studies based on the knowledge of salt importation, distribution, and
consumption in the country. Overall management of this program will be
under the responsibility of the National Iodine Deficiency Control Program,
formally established in 1989. Since this program is new, its management
structure will be strengthened by technical assistance from WHO and other
international agencies (such as the US Centers for Disease Control - CDC)
involved in international iodine deficiency control.
3.35       Promotion of Nutrition Activities.  A package of nutrition and
food security activities will be implemented at the community level in
eleven sub-regions of Zaire. These activities will be carried out as a
practical application of the National Nutrition and Food Security Strategy
that the National Nutrition Agency (CEPLANUT) has prepared. The main
activities of the proposed package will include (a) nutrition education,
with a special focus on the improvement of weaning foods; (b) improvement of
family food production (appropriate technologies, small husbandry and
fishpond, cash crops for women, availability of good seeds and emphasis on
certain agricultural products); and (c) targeted nutrition rehabilitation.
These activities will be carried out either by NGOs already active in the
area or by decentralized public entities already benefitting from external
support such as UNICEF or USAID projects. CEPLANUT will have the overall
responsibility for program management and follow-up.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Management
4.01       Overall implementation responsibilities will lie with the
Planning Ministry under the supervision of a National Social Sector
Committee chaired by the Minister of Planning. The organizational chart is
presented as Annex XII. Day-to-day coordination will be carried out by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) reporting directly to the Minister of
Planning or his State Secretary.   The PCU staff would be considered as
national consultants constituting a special task force to: (i) carry out
project management; and (ii) coordinate the National Social Sector
Adjustment Program (PASS). PCU staff will receive through the project
salary benefits comparable to those in the private sector, in order to
recruit the most qualified people and ensure superior performance. As
described in the para. 4.02, the recruitment of key staff will be submitted
to IDA for review and approval. In addition, regular personnel performance
reviews will be conducted by IDA's supervision missions. The costs and
benefits of this approach would be evaluated as part of the monitoring
program (para. 4.05) as a contribution to the design of a potential civil
service reform.



- 24 -
4.02       The PCU would be composed of: (a) a program coordination unit,
including a program coordinator, four long-term consultants (social
policies, financial management, procurement, accounting) and administrative
staff; (b) a financial and accounting unit to assist disbursements,
monitoring of special accounts and documentation on statements of
expenditure; and (c) a procurement unit in charge of preparing/reviewing
bidding documents and monitoring procurement procedures and their
implementation. Staffing of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with a
chief coordinator, a financial manager, a procurement specialist and a
certified accountant, whose qualifications, experience and terms of
employment would be satisfactory to IDA, would be conditions of credit
effectiveness (para. 7.02(a)).
4.03       While the PCU will be responsible for project management and
coordination, several implementing agencies will benefit from the credit and
will be responsible for executing project activities. The establishment of
adequate procedures by which the PCU will channel credit funds to the
relevant agencies and monitor the use of these funds is crucial for project
performance. Evidence that the PCU has entered into arrangements including
managerial procedures and capabilities satisfactory to IDA under which the
implementing agencies whose programs and budgets have been reviewed during
project appraisal and post-appraisal will be charged with carrying out
specific project activities would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 7.02(b)). The draft arrangements ("Protocoles d'Accord") have been
reviewed by IDA and found acceptable; they would include: (a) the program
objectives and components; (b) a detailed description of the implementing
agency's managerial responsibilities and capabilities; (c) provis'on that
money is granted by the Government to the agency and a detailed description
of government (represented by the PCU) financial and monitoring
responsibilities; (d) a description of the procurement procedures to be used
by the implementing agency and of the roles of the PCU and the agency in
procurement; (e) agreed-upon monitorable process and impact targets; and (f)
provision for annual work program revisions by agency, agreed with PCU and
IDA. The list of programs, implementing agencies and general performance
indicators is provided in Annex VI. During negotiations, assurance was
obtained from the Government that not later than June 30 of each year of
project implementation the annual work program and budget of each
implementing agency involved in the project would be submitted by the PCU to
IDA for review and approval (para 7.01(b).
B. Planning and Monitoring
4.04       The multisectoral nature of the proposed operation makes
adequate planning and monitoring of activities an essential element for
successful project implementation. The project implementation schedule
(provided in Annex VII) will serve as a reference for project supervision.
Planning and monitoring systems will be established at: (i) the general,
strategic level; and (ii) the technical level. Overall guidance and
strategic adjustments will be provided by ad hoc sectoral committees that
have already been established to contribute to the preparation of the
project. They have been particularly active in identifying social policy
changes and priority programs during project preparation. These committees



- 25 -
will meet periodically to review progress and address major issues. Their
list and composition is provided in Annex VIII. Technical units of relevant
line ministries will be strengthened (through the capacity building
activities of the Social Sector Reform Component) to monitor the physical
implementation of the proposed programs. The National Social Sector
Committee, chaired by the Minister of Planning, and comprising
representatives from key ministries, the Presidency and the donor community
would be established to supervise overall progress in project
implementation.
4.05       At the technical level, the planning and monitoring functions of
the PCU will be strengthened through a UNDP-financed technical assistance
program.   The major objectives of this program would be to: (a) assist the
Government in the implementation of the social sector reform by providing
technical expertise and in-service training for the key areas of this
reform; (b) contribute to efficiency and transparency of management of the
programs executed by each implementing agency; and (c) help review the
social impact of the project on the basis of selected performance
indicators. The technical assistance program will be carried out by a
consulting group with recognized international experience. The terms of
reference of the consultancy and the qualifications of the experts will be
reviewed and approved jointly by the Government, UNDP and IDA. Consultancy
services will be provided on a part-time basis, with two to three field
visits per year. However, given the relatively large number and the
diversity of programs to be monitored, a consulting team leader would remain
based in Zaire for the first two years of the project implementation, in
order to coordinate the monitoring process and keep permanent contact with
the PCU. The initial mission will take place before credit effectiveness in
order to prepare the global planning and monitoring mechanisms.   The
consulting group would establish and coordinate teams of experts (nationals
and expatriates) to set up norms and indicators, and monitor the performance
of the various implemencing agencies. UNDP would finance the necessary
experts on (a) social policies, public health, educationltraining, and
social statistics; and (b) logistical and operational support.
C. Reporting
4.06       During negotiations assurance was obtained from the Government
that not later than October 31 of each year of project implementation, the
general work plan and financial previsions of the PCU for the following year
will be submitted to IDA for review and approval (para. 7.01 (c)). This
review will be based upon the presentation to IDA of: (a) a general work
plan for the PCU, including specific assignments for technical assistance;
(b) a detailed work program, budget and implementation schedule for each
project activity; and (c) a financing plan including counterpart funds as
proposed in the government budget. The work program and budget will be
finalized by December 31 of each year of project implementation.
4.07       Quarterly reports on project implementation progress will be
submitted to TDA no later than one month after the end of each quarter. The
reports would include: (a) a review of all progress indicators against
targets set in the annual work plan of each implementing agency involved in



- 26 -
the project; (b) an assessment of progress towards the project objectives;
(c) the status of procurement for all project elements; (d) a review of the
execution of implementation contracts with each implementing agency; (e) the
status of each of the credit disbursement categories and the situation of
the special account and project accounts; and (f) identification of
implementation problems and proposed remedial actions.   An annual
implementation report would consolidate the information contained in the
quarterly reports and summarize the actions taken in response to the
recommendations of the supervision missions. A project Supervision Plan is
provided in Annex IX.
4.08       During negotiations, assurance was obtained from the Government
that the annual project implementation report would be submitted to IDA for
review and comments not later than the three months after the end of each
year of project implementation (para. 7.01 (d)). After two years of project
implementation, the Government, UNDP and IDA would have an exchange of views
to assess overall project performance, the specific contributions of each
implementing agency and propose corrective actions as needed. Finally, no
later than six months after the closing date the borrower will prepare a PCR
in a form satisfactory to IDA.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost of the Proposed Operation
5.01       The total cost of the proposed operation amounts to US$37.0
million equivalent.  Base costs are calculated at US$30.4 million equivalent
(83 percent of total costs) and contingencies at US$6.6 million equivalent
(17 percent). Foreign exchange costs account for US$25.2 million or 68
percent of total project costs. Taxes and duties which have been estimated
at US$1.5 million equivalent would be borne by the Government. Investment
and recurrent costs represent 64 percent and 36 percent of total costs
respectively. Project costs by expenditure category are summarized in Table
II below. Detailed cost tables are provided in Annex X.



- 27 -
TABLE It: ZAIRE Sociel Sector Project
Cost Sunnsry by Expenditure Category
________- ussooo-
Local      Forelgn    Total    X Foresin Exc.    Total Base Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
Equipmont            950        S801      4761         80                18
Vehicles              0          8041      3041       100                10
Training and        1440        1021       2462        41                 8
Seminars
Building Rehab.     1371         818       1989        31                 7
Technical Assistance  846       2634       3481        78                11
Operational Research  313        313       627         50                 2
PPF                  300        1200       1600        80                 6
Studies              347         347       693         s0                 2
Supplies A Materials  810        333       943         36                 3
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS  F1M1      iiW 1     i80         -re               i4
2. RECURRENT COSTS
Equipment Maintenance  92         92        183        50                 1
Medical Supplies      0         8378      6378        100                21
Vehicle Op a Mtco    763         781       1634        61                 6
Salaries             902           0       902          0                 3
Stipends and Travel  1287          0       1287         0                 4
Materials A          288          76       344         22                 1
Supplies
Rent A Utilities     364           0       364          0                 1
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS   5664       7327     10981         67               as
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS    0833      20688     s0649         68               la
Physical
Contingencies      434         1638      1972        78                 8
Price Contingencies  1617       3069      4576         67                15
TOTAL PROJECTS COSTS   11788      26284     37617         68               121
5.02        Project costs have been estimated at mid-1990 prices.  Civil
works have been estimated on the basis of the value of current contracts for
comparable rehabilitation.  Equipment and furniture lists and costings have
been prepared by each implementing agency revised by the Project Preparation
team and reviewed by IDA. Stipends, travel allowances, local training
costs, maintenance costs and other operational costs are based on data
collected from several on-going donor-supported projects. Salaries are
based on current (mid-1990) scales. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10 percent for equipment, furniture, medical supplies and civil
works (no physical contingencies for technical assistance, studies and
operational research). Assuming that the high local inflation rate
(estimated at more than 100 percent in 1990) would be counter balanced by
the local currency's devaluation, all unit costs are calculated in
US dollars. The annual rate of price escalation is based on most recent
estimates of international inflation of 4.9 percent from 1990-1995.
5.03        Project costs by component are presented in Table III below.
Support of Social Sector Reform accounts for 19 percent of base costs; PHN



- 28 -
programs, 64 percent; project management, 11 percent; and project
preparation facility, 5 percent.
TABLE III: ZAIRE Social Sector Project
Proj et Costs by Component
----------- UStooo ----------     X
Local      Foreign     Total   Foreign Exc. Total Base Costs
A. Social Sector Reform
o Rationalization
Government Role      1251         2647      8898         71           12
o Surveys & Studies     773         363       1136         32            4
o Pilot Projects        686         246        832         30            3
Sub Total              2616         8266      s8aw         56           19
B. PHN Programs
o Health Programs      4170        11127     16298         73           58
o Family Planning      635          1386      2020        69             7
o Nutrition            1071         1226      2296        64             7
Sub Total              6878        13738     19814         70           64
C. Prolect Mgt.& Montg.    1648       2443       8489        70           11
D. PPF                    w8          1200       1658        88            6
Total Base Costa       9838        28838    38489         a8           100
Physical Contingencies   434        1638      1972        78             8
Price Contingencies    1617         3059      4676        67            1S
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    11788       26234     37617        68           121
NOTE: Figures may not add up due to rounding
B. Financing and Financial Impact
5.04         Of the total project of US$37.0 million, US$30.4 (82 percent)
million would be financed by the proposed IDA credit; US$2.90 million (8
percent) by UNDP; and US$3.71 million (10 percent) by the Government.
While the Government's direct cost sharing would be low during project
implementation, the proposed operation is designed to increase (and
restructure) public spending on social sectors. UNDP would provide
parallel, coordinated cofinancing as part of its country assistance program.
The financing plan by sources and expenditure category is shown in Table IV
below.



- 29 -
TABLE IV: ZAIRE Social Sector Project
T-nTncng Plan by Expenditure Category
GOZ        IDA        UNOP       TOTAL
Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture
Supplies, Medicines               196       18824      ----        18819
Infrastructure Rehab                178        2329       ----        2502
Technical Assistance                 96        2408       1437        8936
Training, Studies                   481        2878       1483        4817
Personnel                          1076                               1075
Stipends and Travel Allowances     1602        ----       ----        15602
Operating Costs                     189        8177                  3866
PPF                                ----        1500       ----        1560
TOTAL                            87 1m                 290-       V"i
5.05       Financial Impact.  The proposed operation would have a dual
financial impact: a direct impact through incremental recurrent costs
generated by project investments and an indirect impact through the social
sector reform aimed at increasing (and targeting) public spending on social
sectors. On the latter, supplementary budgetary allocations to the Health
and Education sectors, would have an impact on the respective shares of
these sectors in the central budget over the 1991-1994 period. In 1994, the
health operating budget would have increased in real terms from US$10
million in 1990 to US$13 million (a 27 percent increase) and the education
operating budget would have increased from US$47 million to US$53 million (a
12 percent increase). Assuming that the central recurrent budget would
remain constant in real terms, the share of government spending on Health
and Education would increase from 10 percent in 1990 to 15 percent in 1994.
This increase would imply a redistribution of intersectoral budgetary
allocations. The amounts to be reallocated should be easily manageable
particularly if the amounts of public resources spent for non-economic and
non-developmental purposes are substantially reduced.
5.06        Incremental recurrent costs generated by project investments are
estimated on average at US$3.5 million per year. These costs include: (a)
personnel-related costs (incremental salaries, stipends, per diem and travel
allowances) that are estimated on average at US$0.6 million per year (20
percent of incremental recurrent costs); and (b) other operational costs
(maintenance, vehicle operation, medical supplies and surpervision costs)
that are estimated at US$2.7 million per year (22 percent of incremental
recurrent costs). With regard to long-term project sustainability, non-
personnel costs could be covered by cost recovery since their share (77
percent) is within the limits of consumer contribution currently observed in
the Health and Education sectors. On the ther hand, incremental personnel
costs have to be supported by Government contributions: counterpart funds
during project implementation and ordinary budget allocations afterwards, as
part of the targeted supplementary budgetary allocations to the Health and
Education sectors. In order to ensure the availability of counterpart
funds, during negotiations assurance was obtained from the Government that



- 30 -
the project account for government contribution to project operating costs
will be replenished monthly on the basis of coordinated PCU's and IDA's
estimates (para. 7.01(e)). The initial deposit on the project account would
cover approximately three months of government contributions (see para.
5.13).
C. Procurement
5.07       Procurement procedures are summarized in Table V below.  ICB
procedures will be used for the procurement of vehicles, equipment,
furniture, medical supplies and contraceptives.  Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be given a 15 percent margin of preference over the
C.I.F. price of foreign suppliers or the applicable import duty, whichever
is lower for contracts subject to ICB. Whenever possible, goods to be
procured under ICB will be grouped into contracts of at least US$200,000.
Draft tender documents and master lists of equipment, supplies, furniture
and vehicles with related cost estimates would be reviewed by IDA. IDA's
review of tender documents prior to award would be required only for
contracts above US$200,000 equivalent. Bank's sample bidding documents will
be used for drafting the bidding documents. All other contracts would be
subject to review by IDA after the contract award.
TABLE V: ZAIRE Social Sector Projact
Procur eont Arrangements
USSmillIon equivalent
(Amount. in parenthesis represent IDA financing)
PROJECT ELEMENT
----------------------- PROCUREMENT METHODS -----------------------------
ICB        LCB       IS/LS 1/      BGC 2/     N/A       TOTAL
Civil works                2.5(2.3)                                    2.6 (2.3)
Vehicls,Equipment 10.7(10.5)                                         10.7(10.6)
and furnitures
Medical supplies    8.2( 8.2)                                          8.2 (8.2)
Training                              1. 8(0. 1)    1. 0(1. 0)         2.8 (1.1)
Studies/op research                   0.7(0.7)      0.8(0.5)           1.6 (1.2)
Technical Assistance                                8.9(2.4)           3.9 (2.4)
Operating costs                                              7.4(4.7)  7.4 (4.7)
Total            18.9(18.7) 2.6(2.3)    2.6(0.8)    6.7(3.9)  7.4(4.7) 37.0(30.4)
1/    IS/LS: International Shopping/Local Shopping
BGC: Bank Guidelines for the use of Consultants
5.08       The exceptions to ICB procurement procedures would concern Civil
Works, Training, Operational Research/Studies and Technical Assistance. The
proposed procurement methods for Civil Works are summarized in Table VI
below. The contracts for the construction of m4nor additions to or
rehabilitation of existing health facilities (US$40,000 maximum per site, in
aggregate US$2.5 million) would be awarded in accordance with competitive
bidding advertised locally after the proposed procedures have been reviewed
by IDA and found acceptable, since these procedures include local
advertising, public opening of bids, specific criteria for evaluating the
bids and award to the lowest bidder. Foreign bidders who wish to



- 31 -
participate would not be forbidden. LCB documents will be reviewed by IDA
before their release to bidders. While it is expected that LCB procedures
would produce satisfactory results in the Kinshasa area where potential
contractors are r.merous, it is likely that these procedures may not result
in adequate competition i.n rural areas because the works are small, labor-
intensive and scattered in remote areas. On the event LCB does not produce
adequate competition, bids can be solicited from potential contractors in
the area, including NGOs with demonstrated capabilities, following IDA's
approval.
TABLE VI: ZAIRE Social Sector Project
Civil Works
Implementing Unit Cost      Total Cost  Proposed
Program Element  Type of Works    Agency    USS   Quantity USSOOO   Procedure
o Rural HZ     Rehabs Health     ECZ      10,000    40HC   1.12        LCB
development   Conters in                  to                        or NC*
scattered rural           60,000    30RH
areas
o Family       Rehabs or         PSND      6,000     s0    0.87        LCB
Planning     extension of                 to                        or NC
existing facilities       10,000
in rural areas
o Urban HZ     Rehaba HCs and    PSPT    20,000      26    1.01        LCB
dvpt In      Admin. Offices               to
Kinshasa                                50,000
- NC: Negotiated contract
5.09        For Training and Operational Research/Studies, the required
logistical equipment (training and educational materials, office supplies
and necessary survey equipment) would be purchased on the basis of
international or local shopping requiring a minimum of three quotations for
contracts not exceeding US$100,000 each with aggregate procurement limited
at US$1.4 million. Experts a:Ld consultants to assist with surveys and
operational research would be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
For Technical Assistance, UNDP-financed consultant services will be procured
according to procurement rules of UNDP's executing agency. Other technical
assistance will be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the use
of consultants.
5.10        A procurement specialist has been recruited under PPF to manage
the PCU's procurement unit. The first task of this specialist has been to
bring up to required standards, before credit effectiveness, the
institutional capabilities of each implementing agency with regard to
procurement procedures, on the basis of IDA's guidelines. As deemed
necessary, training sessions will be organized with relevant program
managers. In each program, bidding documents will be prepared by the
relevant implementing agencies (including NGOs) using Bank's sample bidding
documents and will be submitted to the PCU's procurement unit for further
processing before IDA's review. The monitoring of procurement



- 32 -
implementation will be carried out by the implementing agencies and the PCU,
under IDA's overall supervision.
D. Disbursement
5.11        The proceeds of the SDR 21.9 million (US$30.4 million
equivalent) will be disbursed as described in Table VII below.
TABLE VII: ZAIRE Social Sector Project
Disbursewnt
CATEGORY                    USimillion                     PERCENTAGE
A. Civil works                       2.5                      100 percent of foreign
exchang*; 90 percent
of local costs
B. Medical supplies,                16.5                      100 percent of foreign
vehicles, *quipment                                        exchange; 90 percent
and furniture                                              of local costs
C. Training, studies,                6.0                      100 percent of foreign
survey and consulting                                      exchange; 90 percent
services                                                   of local costs
D. Operating costs                   3.5                      70 percent
(excluding salaries)
E. PPF repayment                     1. 
F. Unallocated                       2.4
TOTAL                          8_.4
5.12        Contracts for goods and services or single purchases of less
than US$25,000 and all operating costs will be submitted against Statements
Of Expenditure (SOE). All disbursements will be fully documented. The SOE
and all records such as contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents evidencing such expenditures, will be retained by the
Borrower for inspection by supervision missions and reviewed by the annual
audit. The disbursement schedule is planned over 5.5 years (including six
months to finalize accounts and submit final withdrawal applications). It
takes into consideration the project implementation schedule, past
experience in project implementation in Zaire and the fact that most
activities will be carried out by NGOs and semi-autonomous entities with
good implementation records. It is expected that the credit will be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1995. The estimated schedule of disbursement is
in Annex XI.
5.13        Special Accounts.  To ensure that funds for project
implementation will be available when required, a special account will be
established with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. This special account



- 33 -
will be managed by the PCU. The initial deposit by IDA will cover about
four months' anticipated recurrent expenditures, estimated at US$1.0
million. The special account will be replenished by IDA on the basis of
documentary evidence of payments for goods and services made by the PCU,
including the origin of the goods and the payment date. In addition, the
Government will also open in the Central Bank a project account to cover
three months of government contributions in operating costs which will be
replenished quarterly. The establishment of the project account with an
initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 7.02(c)).
5.14       Accounting and Auditing.  The proposed operation will be subject
to standard governmental accounting procedures which are satisfactory to
IDA. The PCU will be strengthened with a financial manager and a certified
public accountant. Annual auditing will be required for all expenditures,
with particular attention to those expenditures reimbursed under SOE. In
addition, the audit would include a review of procurement procedures and
contract awards for all purchases. Auditing will be performed by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, assurance was
obtained from the Government that, the auditor's report, together with a
separate opinion on the SOEs, the procurement procedures and contract awards
and on transactions carried through the special account will be submitted to
IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para.
7.01(f)).
VI. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Justification and Benefits
6.01       The project will: (a) promote and aim towards equity and
efficiency of social programs; (b) protect vulnerable groups against
declining public spending on health programs; and (c) introduce a longer
term process of social sector rehabilitation of which the poor should be
principal beneficiaries. The proposed operation comes after a long period
during which the social sectors have been neglected. The Government is
becoming increasingly aware that a significant part of the population cannot
deal any longer with the consequences of high inflation, poor employment
prospects, and declining social services availability.
6.02       In the short-term the project will have the following benefits:
(a) increased operational levels of basic medical services provided by the
health centers of approximately 150 health zones (50 percent of the PHC
system); (b) qualitative improvements in primary education provided by
schools in need of basic operational support (about one third of the primary
education network); (c) maintenance/expansion of essential MCH programs
(including immunizations, FP and nutrition education/rehabilitation
activities); (d) maintenance/expansion of national programs addressing major
public health problems (including iodine-deficiency disorders, tuberculosis,
leprosy and trypanosomiasis); (e) pilot interventions in the areas of women-



- 34 -
in-development, environment and community-based initiatives. In the longer
term, the policy changes in resource allocation for health and education,
the policy developments in population, women-in-development, environment,
nutrition and food security, and the capacity building for public/private
sector coordination in social service delivery, are expected to pave the way
for significant human resources development. Future investment projects in
Education, Health and other social sectors will benefit from the process
that the Project will set in motion on resource al.ocation, cost recovery,
effectiveness of resource use and equity. The main beneficiaries of all
these actions will be the large segment of the population which currently
does not have access to basic social services.
Risks
6.03       The proposed operation has two significant risks.  The first
risk is the complexity of the operation which might overstretch the already
limited managerial capabilities of the Government. Generally project
implementation in Zaire has been affected by lack of counterpart funds, poor
management and generalized institutional weaknesses, procurement delays, the
deterioration of the transport and marketing systems, and, more generally,
the dateriorating economic environment. In addition, most civil servants
lack motivation because they are underpaid. This risk will be addressed by:
(a) the establishment of a strong project coordination unit (PCU), and of a
program monitoring unit; (b) the decentralization of management
responsibilities and accountability to each implementing agency involved in
the project; (c) the involvement of several NGOs with proven managerial
capabilities as executing agencies for PASS programs; and (d) the
institutional strengthening of key line ministries and NGOs participating ir
program implementation. In addition, the UNDP-financed technical assistance
and training program (see para. 4.05) would provide additional support for
the implementation of the project.
6.04       The other signific-.t risk is the financial sustainability of
incremental recurrent expenditures implied by the proposed operation. This
is linked with the tight budgetary situation and competing needs, including
increases in civil servant salaries. This risk would be addressed by: (a)
strictly monitoring the execution of the incremental public spending on
social sectors as included in the conditionality of the proposed operation;
(b) improving cost recovery through the development of cost sharing/risk
sharing mechanisms at the community level; and (c) maintaining a coordinated
external support to social expenditures until sustained economic growth has
taken place. To this effect, during negotiations assurance was obtained
from the Government that, in coordination with IDA, it would organize each
year of project implementation a donors' meeting to review progress on
social programs (para. 7.01(g)).



- 35 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
'.01       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
:overnment that:
(a) with regard to the special budgetary allocations for Health and
Education: (i) their amounts and composition would be discussed
with IDA not later than October 31 of each year of project
implementation; (it) they would appear earmarked in the National
Budget as specific budgetary items; and (iii) their execution
rate would be monitored as part of project implementation (para.
3.07);
(b) no later than June 30 of each year of project implementation,
the annual work program and budget of each implementing agency
involved in the project would be submitted by the PCU to IDA for
review and approval (para. 4.03);
(c) not later than October 31 of each year of project
implementation, the general work plan and financial previsions
of the PCU for the following year will be submitted to IDA for
review and approval (para. 4.06);
(d) the annual project implementation report would be submitted to
IDA for review and comments not later than three months after
the end of each year of project implementation (para. 4.08);
(e) the project account for Government contribution to project
operating costs will be replenished monthly on the basis of the
PCU's and IDA's estimates (para. 5.06);
(f) the auditor's report along with a separate opinion on the SOEs,
the procurement procedures and contract awards and on
transactions carried out through the special account would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of eacn
fiscal year (para. 5.14); and
(g) the Government, in coordination with IDA, would organize every
year of project implementation a donors' meeting to review
progress in social programs (para. 6.04).
1.02       The following would be Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a) the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been adequately staffed
with (i) a chief coordinator; (ii) a financial manager; (iii) a
certified accountant; and (iv) a procurement specialist; all
with experience, qualifications, and terms of employment
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.02);



- 36 -
(b) the PCU has entered into arrangements including managerial
procedures and capabilities satisfactory to IDA under which the
implementing agencies whose programs and budgets have been
reviewed during project appraisal and post-appraisal will be
responsible with carrying out specific project activities (para.
4.03);
(c)  a project account for government contribution has been
established in the Central Bank and an initial deposit of
US$200,000 equivalent has been made on this account (para.
5.13).
7.03       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for an IDA credit to the Government of Zaire of SDR 21.9
million (US$30.4 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms.



- 37 -
ZAIRE SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET                        ANNEX I
Most Recent    Average Low Income
1976       Estimate         for DCs (URE)
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)        2,346.4        2,346.4
Agricultural (X or total)               8.5            6.7
CNP PER CAPITA (current USS)                    230           262               280
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)              22,000         36,000
Urban pop. (% of total)                  32             37                28
Population growth rate (X):
Total                                2.4            3.0               2.1
Urban                                4.8            4.6               3.8
Life expect. at birth (yrs)              47             52                60
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                             47,392
Stationary pop. (thou)                         129,777
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                    140            189               349
Population age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                              45             48                37
15-84 yrs                             52             51                59
65 and above                           3              3                 4
Crude birth rate (per thou)              48             45                29
Crude death rate (per thou)              18             1S                10
Total fertility rate                    6.1            8.1               3.2
Infant mortality rate (per thou)        125            102                72
Child death rate (per thou)              28             20                 9
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)
Users (% of married women)                            1
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1979-81 = 100)                  110            100               115
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)                 2,302         2,151              2,339
Proteins (grams per day)              39             33                55
Pop. per physician (thou)               7.1           13.5               8.9
Pop, per nurse (thou)                   6.                               2.4
Pop, per hospital bed (thou)            0.3            0.3               1.1
Access to safe water
(X of population):  Total              19             18
Urban             38            43
Rural             12             S
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)              9,173         11,960
Female (%)                           41             36                31
Agriculture (%)                      77             72                72
Industry (%)                         11             13                13
Participation rate (X)
Total                                42             39                41
Male                                 62             50                54
Female                               33             28                28
Age dependency ratio                    0.9            1.0               0.7
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                       90             78                97
Male                      104             88               109
Female                     72             83                84
Secondary: Total                     16             21                32
Male                     23             30                41
Female                    8             10                25
Pupil - Teacher ratio
Primary                              42                               36
Secondary                            23                               18
Pupils reaching grade 8 (x)              41             46                49
Source: Social Indicatore of Development 1988, World Bank



- 38 -
ANNEX II
PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Annual Averago for                          Annual Average for
1988-1988 In USS million                   1989-1991 In USC million
Voted  % Total  Achieved  X Total  X Achieved    Proposed          X Total
Agriculture        46.7      8.0       26.1      6.6          56        68.8              9.8
Energy             56.8      9.8       76.8    19.4          18a        81.7             11.1
Transport         280.8    89.8       118.8     80.2          51       168.6             22.7
Water              48.8      8.8       21.6      6.6          44        67.5              8.5
Telecom             6.8      1.1        8.8      2.2         182        28.0              8.1
Education           9.8      1.6        8.8      0.9          39        28.8              8.1
Health             17.6      8.0       10.6      2.6          69        51.0              6.9
Urban                -        -          -        -           -         20.1              2.7
Mining            149.0    26.6       119.1    80.4           80       218.8             29.8
Othors             16.1      2.7        7.0      1.7          62        16.1              2.2
Total             680.7   100         891.4      100          67       780.9              100
1989-1991 PIP BY SOURCE OF FUNDING
---------- USImillion (constant 1987 US$) --------             X
Foreign                 Domestic              Total      Domestic/Total
Agriculture             119.6                      86.4             204.9            42
Energy                  188.1                      68.9             245.0            24
Transport               808.9                     193.0             499.9            89
Water                   188.6                      54.1             187.7            29
Telecom                  68.6                      12.8              89.1            18
Education                87.8                      82.1              69.9            46
Health                   84.1                      68.9             165.0            46
Urban                    86.0                      26.4              60.4            42
Mining                  828.0                     881.9             654.9            50
Others                   44.4                      24.0              48.4            50
Total                  1308.9                     886.8            2198.2           100
Percentage               59.4                      40.6               100
HEALTH AND EDUCATTJN SECTORS 1989-1991 PIPu
USsmillion ;onstant 1987 USs)
Health Sector                                       Education Sector
Internal   External                                Internal     External
Financing  Financing   Total    X                  Financing    Financing    Total    X
o PHC      50         56         105     S8     o Highor Ed.  16           20         3s       62
o FP/MCH   10          9         19      12     o I a II
Schools     14           12          28     a8
o EPI/CCCD  5          4          9       6     o Training     -            6           5       7
o AIDS      4          8          12      8     o Others       1            1           2       8
o Others    1          8          9       6
Total   70          84        154    100        Total       81           as          69     100
Percent  46X        S6X       100%              Percent     46X          55X       lOX
Source: Ministry of Planning, 1989.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 11
DRAFT
Unofficial Translation
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
LETTER OF SOCIAL POLICY
(Programme d'Aiustement des Secteurs Sociaux - PASS)
1.         The social effects of the deterioration in the economic
situation, which started several years ago, are a serious cause of concern.
The Executive Council has become increasingly aware of the urgent need to
preserve Zaire's most precious asset, its human capital.
These social conditions call for the immediate implementation of
a program having the following main objectives:
(a) greater efficiency and equity in accessing social programs,
through social policy developments, adequate budgetary
allocations, institutional improvements, and a closer
collaboration between the Government and the non-governmental
sector;
(b) protection of vulnerable population groups against the effects
of the economic deterioration, through social programs to
benefit carefully targeted population groups; and
(c) increased domestic capacity for monitoring standards of living,
through the collection and analysis of social indicators.
2.          These objectives will not lead to a better living standard for
the population unless they are closely linked to a steady increase in
economic activity.
The Executive Council would like to fulfill all the necessary
conditions to implement an economic program with the assistance of the World
Bank. In addition, the Executive Council is convinced that a thorough
execution of such a program is indispensable to stimulate economic activity
and increase resources.
However, the implementation of a core social program, under the
present economic situation, demonstrates the Government's willingness to
maintain its development dialogue. This is in the context that this core
program will be the initial phase towards implementing an overall adjustment
of the social sectors.



-40-                                   ANNEX III
Page 2 of 11
THE OVERALL SOCIAL SITUATION
3.          Although some positive results were achieved over the last three
decades (for example, life expectancy increased from 44 years in 1955 to
about 50 years in 1989), the levels reached - the main social indicators
are still mediocre, and tend to stagnate. The mortality rate for children
under five is still about 200 per thousand, the maternal death rate is
estimated to be 6 per thousand, and 252 of children suffer from
malnutrition. The primary school enrollment ratio declined from 92? in 1978
to 76? in 1988. Of even greater concern is that infant mortality rates,
which had been declining considerably up to 1980, are now tending to
stabilize or even rise in some of the particularly underprivileged regions
of the country, paralleling the increase in malnutrition.
4.           Zaire's social sectors are characterized by certain special
features. Suppliers of services are diversified, nongovernmental
organizations play a particularly important role, and services are financed
to a considerable extent by consumers. For example, about 802 of health
services are provided by a network of nongovernmental agencies, including
religious NGOs (i.e. Protestant, Catholic, Kimbanguist and Moslem), projects
financed by donors or local communities of private practitioners (including
traditional healers), and the medical departments of private, public or
parastatal enterprises. In education, the churches manage 802 of primary
schools and 662 of secondary schools.
5.           In these two sectors, the rate of operating cost recovery from
users is high (averaging 50?), and some services are no longer affordable
for certain segments of the population--particularly the lower-income
groups--because of the high inflation rates in 1987 and 1988. In the
poorest regions, the decline in school and health center attendance is
generally attributed to the excessively high medical and school fees.
6.           One of the causes of the quantitative and qualitative
deterioration of social services is the low rate of increase in the
Government's financial contribution.  The share of the government budget
devoted to health fell from 5? of recurrent expenditures in 1978 to 32 in
1985 and less than 22 in 1988.
Current per capita public spending on health is around US$0.5
per year, the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa (where the average is about
US$2). The share devoted to education fell from 242 in 1978 to 12? in 1985
and 8? in 1988. The Executive Council is well aware of the seriousness of
this situation, which is affecting human resource development, an essential
element in the country's socioeconomic development.
7.          Efforts are already being made to increase financing for health
and education, beginning with the establishment of a public investment
program to respond to the country's priority needs. These efforts will be
sustained and strengthened by the implementation of a Social Sector Program
(Programme d'Aiustement des Secteurs Sociaux - PASS), the aims being first
to stop the deterioration, and then to enable a national social policy to be
properly implemented.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 11
Thus, the PASS will pave the way for the social development
policy defined in the Second Five-Year Plan, the main purpose of which is to
provide the necessary social framework for the development of each locality
and family. and to ensure the highest possible return on Zaire's human
resources. The overall coordinated planning of public expenditure will make
it possible to implement this policy in a satisfactory manner.
SPECIFIC PROBLEMS IN THE SECTORS
8.          With regard to Health, the objective of a national policy is to
provide universal access to primary health care. Implementation of this
policy is based on the development of "health zones,' operational units
providing basic services for a particular population group. Currently,
about 150 of the 306 health zones are operational. The following factors
are hindering an increase in coverage:
(a)  a lack of financial and technical support from the public
sector;
(b)  the weakness of community financing mechanisms that would allow
health risks to be shared when financing these costs;
Cc) a lack of any rational relationship among the various operators,
both governmental and private, providing health care, more
specifically, decentralized Governments, the donors, and the
non-governmental sector;
(d) a lack of the legal and institutional framework for the health
zones; their status and the distribution of responsibilities
among them (particularly as regards NGOs) would benefit from a
reassessement in light of the proposals for education; and
(e) the strong demographic increase that requires substantial
investments in order to maintain an adequate level of health
services for the population.
9.          Education is encountering similar constraints as those witnessed
in the health sector. Besides formal education, there also exist
professional training and, functional literacy programs to help young
dropouts and illiterates. However, the following factors are hindering
performance:
(a) the inadequacy of the public sector's financial contribution;
(b) the burden of cost recovery which is essential for the operation
of the schools is becoming excessive for an increasing number of
households;
(c) the existing infrastructure does not respond adequately to
demographic pressures; and
(d) the NGO's efforts and resources could be better mobilized.



- 42 
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 11
10.         Health and education are essential for human resource
development. but they themselves depend on broader intersectoral factors,
the interplay of which constitutes Zaire's social fabric.
Among these factors, demography is particularly important.
Population growth (currently about 32 per year) means that considerable
investment must be made in many sectors merely to maintain the current
standard of services. Because the current overall investment rate is low,
excessive population growth could make it impossible to provide sufficient
investment to increase per capita income. Although this indicator must be
kept in perspective--she country's population density being very low (about
13 inhabitants per km )--the Executive Council is aware of the need to
manage population growth, while at the same time taking into account the
nation's culture and values.
11.         Deforestation, erosions and the lack of inadequate
infrastructures in peri-urban areas are the main reasons that this
demographic growth has occurred without any regulatory mechanisms. Even
though it would be illusory to provide employment opportunities for everyone
in a country with a very low growth rate, underemployment, inadequate wages
and increases in prices are contributing to a rise in poverty, one of the
most striking signs of which is the high malnutrition rate among women and
children.
12.         The demographic policy to be adopted by the Executive Council
will be to:
(a) reduce maternal and child mortality through more elaborate food
security mechanisms;
(b) encourage the spacing of births by at least two years;
(c) institute the permanent settlement of population groups through
better conditions that will enable every village and region to retain
its inhabitants; and
(d) maintain the trend toward the privatization of health an education
services, cost recovery from consumers in itself constitutes a birth
control mechanism, since people have increasing difficulties in
paying for their children's school fees and medical costs.
THE OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY OF THE PASS
13.         The main objective of the PASS is to develop the country's human
resources, but this social purpose is not only an end in itself but also an
essential prerequisite for the country's economic recovery. It calls for a
clear vision of both how such human resources are to be produced and how and
where they are deployed; locality by locality and region by region.
Substantial resources will be required for this policy, calling for
coordinated governmental and nongovernmental participation, together with
extensive institutional adjustment. Because of this long-term approach and
the progressive strategy adopted, the PASS has been planned as pluri-annual
rolling multisectoral programs that can be implemented over a period of



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 11
about 10 years, with an initial stage designed to put an end to the
country's social deterioration.
Therefore, in addition to the national objectives and long-term
strategies pursued by the PASS, it will focus on a number of precise
objectives relating to two specific action strategies.
14.         The initial phase of the PASS will have the following main
objectives:
(a) improving the quality and increasing the quantity of basic health and
education services, with particular emphasis on affordability for
underprivileged population groups;
(b) implementing innovative social programs such as assimilating the work
of women into the productive process, and harmonizing population
growth with economic growth and environmental protection; and
(c) increasing domestic capacity for collecting data on social
indicators, analyzing them and deducing appropriate new action plans.
15.         To achieve these objectives, the social sectors must undergo a
certain amount of adjustment in order to respond to the country's needs.
The following three maior strategies will govern this adjustment process:
(a) allocation of adequate public resources for operating priority social
programs, as a result of the rigorous planning of public
expenditures; and
(b) an increased role for the private sector (particularly the
development NGOs) in the supply of social services, with the
Executive Council providing support for this contribution, while
acting as both regulator and facilitator.
(c) support to take into account in the field in the overall living
situation of each locality and region in order for the various
interventions to complement one and other more closely so as to
reinforce the overall development of the localities within the
regions.
IMPROVING PUBLIC SPENDING ON SOCIAL SECTORS
16.         The process of matching social policies with the necessary
financing will first be applied to health and education because these
sectors have been thoroughly studied, and detailed public investment
programs have been drawn up for them. In the initial stage, specific budget
allocations covering the operating costs of priority programs in the health
and education public investment programs will be prepared, and their
financial and physical execution will be monitored. During implementation
of the PASS, a complete public expenditure plan for the health and education
sectors will be established and monitored. Initial public investment
programs will be prepared for other important social sectors (e.g. the



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 6 of li
environment, food security, and women in development). This planning
exercise will enable the Executive Council to ensure that the resources
necessary for executing social policies are properly available and allocated
to priority programs.
PROMOTION OF THE NONGOVERNMENTAL SECTOR
17.         The nongovernmental sector consists of a wide range of operators
(NGOs, local communities, private operators, and consumer groups). Their
contributions to social services can be increased, encouraged and
rationalized. The Executive Council has already launched a program for
increasing their role by transferring responsibility to them for managing
the implementation of certain programs financed by international agencies
and for supervising certain health and educational establishments. The PASS
will make it possible for this process to be extended and broadened by
supporting such activities in the following ways:
(a) Responsibility for executing certain priority programs (e.g. the
extension of the rural health zone network) will be given to large
NGOs with proven capacity;
(b) A development program will be provided for NGOs submitting projects
approved as eligible by a management committee consisting of
representatives of the government, the NGOs and donors;
(c) The private sector will be involved in social services, particularly
in the management of complex structures (e.g. hospitals and
vocational schools), in which private operators have a comparative
advantage regarding efficiency;
(d) The feasibility of using mutual benefit systems for the sharing of
social risks (particularly medical risks) and their costs will be
examined through operational surveys organized by economic sector
(e.g. government employees and craftsmen) and by geographical area
(e.g. rural, urban and peri-urban); and
(e) The legal framework outlining the relationships between the non-
governmental sector and the Executive governmental sector and the
Executive Council will be revised in order to become more liberai,
taking into account the States normative and facilitating role.
ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN IN THE SECTORS
A.     Health
18.         Since 1975, the Executive Council has defined a national policy
on primary health care. It is aware of the need to rationalize and
coordinate the activities of all parties operating in the national health
system, either governmental or private. The PASS will contribute to this
rationalization, which has the following purposes:



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 7 of 11
(a) strengthening the standard-setting and supporting role of the public
sector;
(b) promoting an enhanced role for nongovernmental agencies in the
provision of medical services;
(c)  increasing the capacity of communities to meet medical expenses; and
(d) assuring an adequate health coverage in each region.
The rationalization process will comprise the following elements:
(a) the establishment of a legal status for health zones, providing for
their semiautonomous standing, a large measure of community
participation in their management, and the harmonization of the
relationships between administrative authorities, medical authorities
and NGOs;
(b) the promotion, through pilot projects, of mutual benefit societies
providing medical insurance;
(c) a study on the feasibility of the total or partial privatization of
certain large hospitals that impose a heavy financial burden on the
Executive Council; and
(d) the establishment of a national policy on the supply of essential
drugs, together with an implementation plan.
19.         To support these activities, a study will be prepared on the
reorganization of the Department of Public Health, and this would lead to
the drafting of a Loi-Cadre defining the legislative, administrative and
operational roles of all parties concerned with the health sector, both
governmental and nongovernmental. The institutionalization of FONAMES (the
National Medical and Health Fund), the parastatal institution responsible
for implementing national policy on primary health care, through the
appointment of a President-Delegate General and Board of Management that
will include representatives of the Executive Council, the main NGOs
involved in the health sector, and donors.
20.         The PASS will also provide considerable direct support for the
priority public health programs specified in the public investment program.
These programs consist of the following:
(a) strenathenina and expansion of the health zone system, which may be
modified;
(b) support for the Expanded Program of Immunization and the control of
transmissible childhood diseases;
(c) the PSND (Programme National de Services des Naissances Desirables:
National Program of Services for Wanted Births);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 11
(d) priority public health programs, including the control of
trypanosomiasis, tuberculosis, leprosy and iodine deficiency
diseases; and
(e) water delivery schemes to rural areas.
The PASS will also provide operational support for institutions
responsible for the implementation of these programs (i.e. the Department of
Public Health, FONAMES, and various executing agencies).
B.     Education
21.         The overall framework and general system of education have been
defined by the Reform Committee (established in 1983) and are specified in
the Loi-Cadre of 1986. The main objectives, such as provision of schooling
for the population and the requirement that teachers be professionally
qualified, demonstrates that the strategy for the sector must be made
explicit and directed toward certain priorities.
The PASS will assist in monitoring the execution of this strategy,
which is supported by the World Bank as part of the Education Sector
Rehabilitation Project.
22.          The following are the key components of the strategy:
(a) an adjustment of the enrollment ratios in primary and secondary
education, the priorities being to check the decline in the ratio for
primary education and then coordinate this ratio with the rate of
population growth (32 per year);
(b) an improvement in the quality of education and an increase in
internal efficiency (in particular, by reducing the incidence with
which students repeat grades in primary and secondary education); and
(c) the establishment of a committee to supervise the execution of the
strategy, with joint responsibility vested in the Departments of
Primary and Secondary Education, and Higher and University Education
and Scientific Research.
23.         In order to ensure that these measures produce the necessary
impact throughout the education system, decrees governing the application of
the Loi-Cadre will be promulgated in order to clarify the roles of the
Government and the nongovernment partners respectively, and reduce
government interference in the activities of nongovernmental establishments.
With regard to direct support for the rehabilitation of education,
the Education Sector Rehabilitation Project to be financed by the World Bank
will make an important contribution to both infrastructure rehabilitation
and textbook distribution.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 9 of 11
C.     Nutrition and Food Security
24.          In light of the deteriorating nutritional status of certain
population groups and the decline in food security among households lacking
either the means to produce food or sufficient income to purchase it, the
Executive Council intends to develop a national policy and program covering
the food chain, from production to consumption. This policy and program
would include macropolicy measures based on a national monitoring system
involving several departments and services having an impact on nutrition and
food security (i.e. agencies concerned with agriculture, rural development,
education, health, women's issues, information and land-use planning).
CEPLANUT (the Center for Human Nutrition Planning) would act as coordinator
and technical secretariat for the National Committee of the Nutrition and
Food Security sector (organized under the PASS).
CEPLANUT would immediately begin coordinating an action program
consisting of the following items:
(a)  a series of studies inventorying operators in the fields of
nutrition, household food consumption and practices, baby foods and
cassava;
(b) monitoring of household nutrition and of nutrition programs at the
national level;
Cc) the training of medical and paramedical personnel;
(d) information, education and communication; and
(e) operational research at the sub-regional and health zone levels.
D.     Population
25.         The Executive Council is well aware that the rapid population
growth (32 per year) is exceeding the country's capacity for job creation
and provision of social services (e.g. in health, education, urban
development, water supply, housing, etc.). In the east of the country,
(particularly in Kivu) high population density is associated with
deforestation and erosion. A national population policy is being developed,
evidence of which is the establishment of a National Population Committee
and a Coordinating Unit for population affairs. The Executive Council is
about to finalize this national policy, together with a multisector action
plan, a preliminary version of which has already been prepared in line with
the following considerations:
(a) the principle of expanding population information into a national
program;
(b) the promotion in schools of education in family life (in the final
grade of primary education and in secondary education);
(c) the development of analytical and research capacity with respect to
demographic studies;



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 10 of 11
(d) coordination with the "women in development' and environmental
activities presented below; and
(e) the role of non-governmental organizations.
E.     The Environment
26.         A major priority for the Executive Council is conservation of
the country's natural resources end environmental protection, since these
issues affect its capacity for achieving its objectives with regard to
public health (because of pollutior from industry and other sources), food
security (because of agricultural productivity and erosion), water supply,
economic production (i.e. wood harvesting), tourism (national parks) and
other important aspects of socioeconomic life.
Zaire is already cooperating with a group of donors on the
development of a Tropical Forest Action Plan. Several other studies are
being prepared, such as the UNDP/UNEP ecodevelopment pilot project and the
environmental impact study on mining and copper processing in the Shaba
region.
The PASS would support and complement these efforts with a special
emphasis on strengthening the institutional car-bilities of the Environment
Department, outlining a broad environmental stb.tegy and action plan, and
supporting needed legislative reform and improvements in the resource data
management system.
F.     Women in Development
27.         The Executive Council has long expressed its wish to see Zairian
women participate fully in the country's socioeconomic development.
National policy in this area is essentially multisectoral, and has the
following objectives: (i) to take account of the work and economic
contribution of women in all development activities; (ii) to prevent sex
discrimination in access to employment and education; (iii) to lighten the
burden of women's work by providing increased access to appropriate
technologies; (iv) to promote women's health through better and more
targeted preventive care; (v) to update statistical and sociological data on
the role of women in Zairian society; and (vi) to remove the legal
incapacity of married women.
28.         The PASS will contribute to the implementation of this policy by
paying particular attention in its initial phase to "Safe Motherhood' and
appropriate technology. The Executive Council has approved the "Safe
Motherhood" initiative ever since it was launched by UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO and
the World Bank, with the support of many international agencies. The PSND
will be responsible for launching this initiative, which will be
progressively integrated into all the country's medical and health services.
The development of appropriate technologies for reducing the work of women
will be based on operational research performed jointly by government
institutions (such as the Department of Rural Development) and NGOs.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 11 of 11
G.     Monitoring Living Standard
29.         The Executive Council is aware of the need to strengthen Zaire's
statistical system and the institutions responsible for collecting and
analyzing data. The National Institute of Statistics (INS) of the
Department of Planning and the Studies and Planning Unit (SEP) of Department
of Agriculture already fulfill this role, but to a lesser degree. In order
to strengthen the Government's institutional capacity for integrating the
social dimension into its developrent policies, both general and sectoral,
the PASS will provide support at the following two levels: (i) an ongoing
household survey will be gradually established during implementation of the
PASS; and (ii) support will be provided for obtaining reliable indicators on
the living standards of population groups in rural and urban areas.
Assistance from non-governmental agencies that are competent in the field of
statistics will be sought to undertake specific surveys or studies.
CONCLUSION
30.         Four main aspects are to be maintained in the context of the
PASS:
(a) reallocation of public spending towards the social sectors, the
Executive Council has already committed additional funds in its 1990
budget for PASS-Health and PASS-EPSP;
(b)  recognition of the work undertaken by the private sector, mainly NGOs
that intervene in the social sectors;
(c) implementation of priority actions in order to curtail the
deterioration of household living conditions; and
(c) tha improvement of the overall statistical system.
To implement this project, the Government has put in place a
Project Coordination Unit with an autonomous management structure. In this
context, it will be able to efficiently mobilize various experts from
the relevant ministries. In addition, at the financial level, it will be
able to deal directly with the executing agencies for this project.
31.         The Government of Zaire requested assistance from the World Bank
to execute the PASS. This support, particularly necessary in a period of
political instability in the country, has led to the design of a Social
Sector Project (US$37 million). For the Government, this Project is the
first step that will lay the groundwork for efficiency of the PASS. If this
program is implemented in a timely fashion, the Government will then be able
to begin preparation for more ambitious interventions, whereby assistance
from the World Bank would probably be sought.



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
Increasing and Targeting Public Spending
in Health and Education
1.         Since high user fees limit the access of poor families to basic
social services, incremental budgetary allocations for these services would
allow real reductions on user charges without undermining the cost recovery
principle which is a key element for adequate performance in social service
delivery. In a first stage, the target groups for these programs will be
(a) under-five children, pregnant women and lactating mothers (high-risk
groups during economic stagnation) covered by the primary health care system
(HZs); and (b) students in primary/secondary schools. The necessary
budgetary allocations have been estimated and are summarized below.
2.         Budgetary Allocation to Selected Health Zones.  This financial
support will cover the local cost of standard packages of pre-natal, post-
natal and child care (including family planning). The amount of support is
calculated on the basis of the actual cost of the service, net of the
standard contribution that health facilities receive from consumers (with
the exception of extremely low income families, registered by the health
facility). In 1990, the budgetary allocation would be made available to 150
operational Health Zones (HZs) and would amount to the equivalent of US$2.5
million. The amounts for 1991 and 1992 would be estimated as part of the 3-
year rolling L.alth sector PEP process. Increases are, however, expected
from year to year, as the number of HZs supported increases and service
quality and quantity rise.
3.         Budgetary Allocations to Primary and Secondary Schools.  This
support will cover essential operational inputs such as local costs of
pedagogic materials, school maintenance and school-related community
activities. In 1990 the budgetary allocation would amount to US$3.1
million, benefitting approximately 4.2 million students in primary education
and 1.0 million students in secondary education. The amounts for 1991 and
1992 would be estimated on the basis of the 3-year rolling Education Sector
PEP.
4.         Increasing Budgetary Allocations to Decentralized Governments.
The Government has an important role to play in terms of quality control,
regulation and support to local initiatives. In these areas, decentralized
public agencies have a comparative advantage because they are closer to the
population and more flexible than the central Government. Moreover, they
are in better position to ensure consumer protection, particularly with
regard to the transparency of community financing. To sustain these
efforts, the Government has to provide adequate budgetary allocations to
regional and sub-regional Health and Education inspectorates which have been
extremely neglected in the past years. These budgetary allocations would
cover non-salary inputs, such as supervision, in-service training and
information/communication activities. They amount to the equivalent of
US$2.2 million for 1990. For the subsequent years, the amounts would be
estimated on the basis of the 3-year rolling PEP.



- 51 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
Zaire Priority Household Survey Plan of Operation
Introduction
1.        The Zaire Priority Household Survey system would have two main
objectives: (a) the identification of policy target groups; and (b) the
production of key socio-economic indicators describing the situation of
different groups of households. The survey will be repeated annually in
order to monitor changes in the socio-economic profile of target groups,
to provide key social indicators and build up a time series database. The
questionnaire has been designed as a light information structure in order
to make data available to the Government as quickly as possible.
Basic Principles
2.        In the rural areas, the priority survey would be implemented by
the Ministry of Agriculture (Service d'Etudes et Programmation - SEP) since
a permanent information and data collection system is in effect. In the
urban areas, several punctual surveys will be undertaken. The PCU will
seek technical as well as operational assistance from INS and other
institutions with statistical capabilities. The statistical committee of
the PASS and the PCU will ensure the relevance of collected variables and
the appropriate use of these variables in the design of future actions
which would aid vulnerable groups.
Methodology
3.        The Priority Survey methodology and documents would be based on
the SDA prototype surveys designed by the World Bank SDA Unit and adapted
to the Zairian context. The scope of the questionnaire would be multi-
subject, however no topic would be addressed in detail in order to produce
key indicators in a timely fashion. The structure of the questionnaire
would be simple, data will be collected during a single visit and the
duration of the interview would not exceed one hour.
4.        The exact sample drawing would be determined during pre-survey
activities (September-October 1991). In urban areas, at this stage, the
sample size would be between 2,000-3,000 households. For rural areas, the
existing sample frame of Ministry of Agriculture will be used (12,150
households). The survey team would consist of 1 supervisor, 4 interviewers
and 1 driver.
5.        Data Processing Analysis and Report Publication.  For the urban
areas, data will be processed in the regions where the data will be
collected in order to speed-up the process and provide a closer follow-up.
For the rural areas, the existing data processing and analysis



- 52 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
system will be used. The compilation of the summary report which would
present all key results of the survey immediately after the data are
processed. A formal presentation would be made to the PASS statistical
committee and other interested parties. This would take form of a short
seminar or workshop at which the results and policy implications would be
discussed.
6.        Quality Control.  Special attention would be given from the PASS
statistical committee to monitoring the various stages of the surveys and
therefore ensure the highest quality of data possible.
Execucion
7.        The first Priority Survey would take place in 1991.  Preparatory
activities would begin as soon as the credit would become effective.
Schedule of Activities and Timetable for the First Year
Development and Planning
General program design                         September 1991
Procurement                                    September-November 1991
Plan survey logistics                          September 1991
Sample selection                               September 1991
Questior.naire design                          September-November 1991
Data processing preparation                    September-November 1991
Pilot survey                                   November 1991
Training                                       November 1991
Field Operations
Listing                                        September-October 1991
Enumeration                                    November-December 1991
Post-Fieldwork Activities
Data Processing                                December 1990-February 1992
Data Analysis                                  January-February 1992
Report Production                              March 1992



- 53 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
Cost
8.        The total cost of this component excluding contingencies is USS
1.1 million distributed as follows:
I. Investment Costs
Equipment                                 34,305
Vehicles                                  45,000
Technical Assistance                     120,000
Operational Research                      45,000
Socio-economic studies                   300,000
Sub-total                               $544,305
II. Recurrent Costs
Equipment maintenance                      4,200
Vehicle maintenance                       28,000
Supplies and materials                    31,000
Stipends and travel                       48,000
Personnel                                480,960
Sub-total                               $592,160
TOTAL COST                            $1,136,465
Statistical School of Kinshasa
9.        Training for data collection and analysis is underway in the
statistical school of Kinshasa; it is partially financed through this
operation. This will ensure that INS higher-level and medium-level staff
receive training in one and two years respectively and will thus reduce the
disequilibrium between its heavy workload and the shortage of qualified
staff.



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
PROGRAMS SUMMARY DATA SHEET
Oblie-ctiv-s              Impl-m nting
lot    2nd  Brd    4th          Agoncy                    Impact
yr     yr    yr     yr
SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Budgetary           X       X    X      X          PCU in collaboration       - lmproved access
Allocations to                                      with the Minitrieos of      to and quality
Basic Health A                                      Finance, Budget, Health    of health and
Education                                          and Education                education servico
Dvpt. Intersec-     Development over a 2-yr         Ministries of Planning,  - improved mutually
toral Policies      period. Implemntation          Environment and              reinforcing
(Population, WID,   afterwards.                    CONDIFFA                    cross-sectoral
Environment)                                                                    social activities
Pilot Proi cts      Implementation and             NCOn                       - policy experiments
(WID, Environment,  monitoring over a 8-yr         Co_unitioe                  which might lead
comunity-bosed      period. Review                                              to notionwido
initiatives)        afterwards.                                                expansion.
Social Surveys      On a permanent basis.          Contractual arrangements - provision of
and studles                                        with  public and/or          soclal data,
private agencies            indicators and
analysis
PHN PROGRAMS
Rural HZ oxp.         8      7    10     10         ECZ                       - 8 million people
with better access
to PHC
Urban HZ exp.        2       2     8      8        Projet Sant6               - 1 million people
Pour Tous                   with better accoss
to PHC
FP program *xp.      6       10    15     20       PSND                      - 5 million people
in rural HZ                                                                    with better access
to FP services
EPI/CCCD exp.        5        5     6      6       PEV Unit                   - limunization
in rural HZ                                                                    coverage
increasing from
87X to 47X
TRYPANO             activitlos in six HZ           Buroau de Contrtle        - surveillance of
establishment of two           de la Trypanoomiooase       about one
mobile units by year.                                      million peoplo at
risk
TB                    U,006 patients to be         Bureau Natlonal           - reduction of TB-
treated each year              do Is Tuberculose           related mortality
- morbidity
TDCI                 lodized oil Injection         Bureau National de        - reduce by 26X TDCI
(UN  of peoplo)               Lutte Contre lea             in endemic areas
80     800   800   8as         Carences Iod6es



- 55 -
Annex VII
Page 1 of 4
ZAIRE
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Proiect Area and Obiectives              Action to be taken         Timetable
A. SUPPORT OF SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Rationalization of Government Role
o Increasing & targeting public    o Establishment of         o by 6/90 each yr
financing of Health and             financial targets
Education
o Budgetary               o by 10/31 each yr
allocations
o Setting up              o every 3 months
monitoring systems
o Developing Intersectoral          o Issuance of action       o by 6/91
Social Policies                     plans on Population,
WID, Environment and
Nutrition
o Initiation of           o by 1/92
population activities
at the Regional Level
o Launch training and    o on a permanent
information activities   basis, starting
in WID and Environment   10/91
o Establishment of a      o by 12/93
National Nutrition
Surveillance System
o Building up Statistical           o Technical assistance   o by 6/91
Capabilities                        to INS and SEP
(Ministry of
Agriculture)
o Establishment of data o by 12/91
collection system
from INSS and other
institutions



- 56 -
Annex VI!
Page 2 of 4
Prolect Are& and Obiectiv*s              Action to be taken         Timetable
Social Surveys and Studies
o SDA Surveys                       o Finalization of          o by 6/91
methodologies for
urban and rural
surveys
o Tests on small          o by 7-11/91
samples
o Data collection         o on a permanent
and analysis              basis from
1/92-95
o Social Studies                    o Final selection of       o by 3/91
topics and methods
o Identification of       o by 6/91
executing agencies
o Implementation          o 10/91-01/95
Pilot Proiects
o Community-based and               o Review of proposals,   o on a permanent
NGO projects                      funding and                basis from
monitoring                6/91-6/95
o Appropriate technology            o Selection of             o completed 12/91
for WID                           projects
o Implementation          o start 6/91
o Review                  o 6/94
o Environment                       o Selection of             o completed 12/91
projects
o Implementation          o start 6/91
o Review                  o 6/94



- 57 -
Annex VI!
Page 3 of 4
Proiect Area and Obiectives              Action to be taken          Timetable
o Health insurance                  o Selection of             o completed 12/91
projects
o Implementation           a start 6/91
o Review                   a 6/94
B. PHN PROGRAMS
Public Health Proarams
o Improving PHC coverage            o operationalization       o completed
of 5HZs                    6/92
o operationalization       o completed
of 9HZs                    1/93
o operationalization       o completed
of 13HZs                   6/93
o operationalization       o completed
of 13HZs                   6/94
o Comaunicable Disease Control      o implementation of        o starting
EPI/CCCD activities        6/91
in 5 new HZs/yr            ends in
6/95
o establisbment of         o starting
2 Trypano control          6/91
units/yr                   ends in
6/94
o regular supply of        o permanent
anti-TB and anti-          basis
Leprosy drugs
Family Planning and Safe Motherhood
o PP service expansion              o FP activities            o completed
in 5HZs                    6/92
o FP activities            o completed
in 10HZs                   1/93
o FP activities            o completed
in 15HZs                   6193
o FP activities            o completed
in 20HZs                   6/94
o regular supply of        o permanent
contraceptives             basis



- 58 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
Prolect Area and Obi,ctives              Action to b- taken          Timetable
Safe Motherhood activities             o National seminar          o 10/91
03/94
o 2 regional seminars      o 92/93
per year
Nutrition Activities
o Support to Iodine Deficiency      o Establishment            o start
Control                             of control activities      6/91
in 5HZs/yr for 3 yrs       completed
in 1994
o Promotion of nutrition            o Identification of        o completed
activities                          11 areas                   3/91
o Implementation           o start in
6/91
o Review                   o 6/94
C. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Planning                            o Work plans and           o by 6/30
budgets for                each yr
implementing agencies
o General work plan and   o by 10/31
financial previsions       each yr
PCU
Coordination                        o Financial management,   o permanent
Procurement,
disbursement
and accounting
Monitorinx                          o Establishment UNDP-       o by 6/91
supported TA
o Reporting                o every
3 months
o Mid-term review          o 6/93
Evaluatint                          o Project Completion       o 6/96
Report



- 59 -
ANNEX VIII
PASS
Sectoral Committees Listing and Composition
1.    Public Expenditure Programming
Technical Secretariat: DDP's Directorale of Programming.
Members: Prime Minister's Office, Presidency, Budget, Finance,
BDZ.
2.    Education
Technical Secretariat: DEPS project management unit
*   Members: Prime Minister's Office, Presidence, CONDIFFA, DDTPS.
3.    Women-in-Development
Technical Secretariat: CONDIFFA
*   Members: Prime Minister's Office, Presidency, DOA, DDR, OAS.
4.    Environment
Technical Secretariat: DECN
Members: Prime Minister's Office, Presidency, CECAP, DTP,
CONDIFFA.
5.    Population
Technical Secretariat: CECAP
Members: Prime Minister's Office, Presidency, DSP, CONDIFFA,
INS, DAS.
6.    Nutrition
Technical Secretariat: CEPLANUT
Members: Prime Minister's Office, DAG, DDR, Ministry of
Information, DECN, DEPS, CONDIFFA, DAS, INS
7.    Health
Technical Secretariat: DSP's, BEP
Members: Prime Minister's Office, FONAMES, DCMP, CONDIFFA, PEV,
PSND, DECN, DTP, DSP's drug administration.
8.    Statistics
Technical Secretariat: INS
Members: Prime Minister's Office, Presidency, IRES, DAg.



- 60 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
SUPERVISION PLAN
Missions' Obiectives           Missions' Members                 Period
Pre-effectiveness              Task Manager (TM)             March/April 1991
. review compliance with       Financial analyst
conditions of credit         Management specialist
effectiveness                Statistician
. review bidding
documents
Proiect Launch                 TM                            June/July 1991
. review initial work          Implementation specialist
programs of the PCU          Public Health specialist
and implementing             Procurement specialist
agencies
r review procurement
schedule
Budgetary Allocations          TM                            Oct/November 1991
and Donor Coordination         Cofinancing advisor
r review PASS allocations      Health economist
and attend Donor Meeting    Statistician
f finalize process
indicators
Review procurement and         TM                            Feb/March 1992
implementation mechanisms      Implementation specialist
. field visits on program      Public Health specialist
sites                        Procurement specialist
. review of procurement
First Year Performance         TM                            May/June 1992
Review and work program        Financial Analyst
review                         Management Specialist
. assessment of                Disbursement Officer
disbursement performance
and accounting
. strategy of adjustments
Budgetary allocations          TM                            Oct/November 1992
and Donor Coordination         Cofinancing advisor
. review PASS allocations      Health economist
and attend Donor Meeting    Statistician
. review process indicators



- 61 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
Missions' Objectives           Missions' Members                  Period
Performance Review             TM                             Feb/March 1993
of 6 implementing agencies    Public Health specialist
. field visits at the          Nutritionist
beneficiary level            Population specialist
. PHN strategy review
Performance Review of          TM                             May/June 1993
remaining implementing         Public Health specialist
agencies                       WID/NGO specialist
. field visits at the
beneficiary level
. assessment of community-
based activities
Budgetary allocations          TM                             Oct/November 1993
and Donor coordination         Cofinancing advisor
. review PASS allocations      Health economist
and attend donor meeting    Statistician
. review process indicators
Performance Review of          TM                             Feb/March 1994
Pilot Projects, Studies        SDA staff
and Surveys                    Statistician
. assessment of preliminary
results of operational
research
. assessment of surveys
performance
Mid-term Review of             TM                             May/June 1994
proiect implementation         Management specialist
and planning exercise         Public Health specialist
with the PCU and               Nutrutionist
implementing agencies          Population specialist
. review of the degree         Financial specialist
of achievement of            Procurement specialist
project's objectives
. assessment of each
project component
. pre-identification
of a second social
sector operation



- 62 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
Missions' Obiectives           Missions' Members                 Period
Budgetary allocations          TM                            Oct/November 1994
and Donor Coordina.ion         Cofinancing advisor
. review PASS allocations      Health economist
and attend donor meeting    Statistician
. review process indicators
Identification of a            TM                            Feb/March 1995
second social sector           Implementation specialist
operation                      Social Sector economist
. agreements on areas
of intervention and
objectives
. initiate preparation
Random assessment of           TM                            May/June 1995
proiect impact on              SDA team
beneficiaries
. field visits
. national round table
Review of the preparation      TM                            September 1995
of the second Social           Management specialist
Sector Operation               Implementation specialist
. review design and
scope of the proposed
operation
. prepare transition
between this project
and the second operation
Initiate PCR                   TM                            December 1995
. agree on the content         Government Team
of the PCR
. pre-appraise the second
operation



- 63 -
ANNEX X
Page-T-of 4
!AIRE
Social S-ctor Project
Projoct Cost Estimates
Projects Components by Yoar
Totals Including Contingoncies
SUS
91     92      93      94  Total
A. Social Sector Roform
1. Ministry of Plan              186    148    144        84   s5o
2. Min. of Hoalth - FONAMES      :346    e88     718      29   2758
3. Environment                   233    236    187    161    817
4. CONOIFFA                      324      83      87      42    636
S. Social Surveys A Studios      229    451    413       249   1342
6. Pilot Projects                 317    317    221       93    947
-----------------------------------------
Sub-Total                          2636   1898   1767    668   6959
8. Pop. Health I Nut. Prog.
1. Tryponsomosias                420    257    263    293   1223
2. CEPLANUT                      337    252    132    134    865
3. Iodino                        742    496    347    283   1868
4. Santo Pour Tous Kinshasa     1185   1237   1447    768   4837
S. Nais. Desir. A Surv. Mat.     720    631    711    470   2532
6. Immunization Program          864    930   1020    636   33S1
7. Leprosy and TB                621    479    506       644   2150
S. Rural Hoelth Zones - ECZ     1791   1920   2102   2136   7960
----------------_------------------------
Sub-Total                          6880   6201   8529    6156  2468C
C. Project Management              1291   1179   1342    180   3992
D. PPF                             1500       0       0       0    1500
__.______________________________________
Total PROJECTS COSTS              12107   9278   9638   5995  37017
Values Scaled by 1000.0 11/6/1990 9:58
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 64 -
A.NNE:( X
Page 2 of 4
ZAIRE
Social Sector Project
Project Cost Estimatos
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingoncies
$US
-----------------------------------------
91      92      93      94   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment                         2299    1427    1464     717    5907
B. Vehicles                          1692     791     827     443    3753
C. Training and Seminars              849     819    815      325    2808
0. Building Rehabilitation            891     734     847     229    2502
E. Technical Assistance              1202    1325    1266     145    3936
F. Operational Research               199    204      164     158     724
C. PPF                               1500       0       0       0    1500
H. Studies                            220     299    233       32     786
I. Supplios A Materials              439      241     326     176    1181
-----------------------------------------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               9091    5840    6943    2223   23096
====_===__-=__3___===
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Equipment Maintenance               92     55       39      42     228
B. Medicines                         1965    2025    2110   2082    8181
C. Vohicle Maintenance               291      439    611      744    2085
0. Salaries                          111     304      330    330    1075
E. Stipends and Travel               350     377      393    382    1502
F. Materials A Supplies              119      137      96     84      435
C. Rent                               88      102     117    108      414
-------------------------------------_---
Total RECURRENT COSTS               3018    3438    3695    3772   13921
Total PROJECT COSTS                12107    9278    9638   5996   37017
Values Scaled by 1000.0  11/6/1990  13:55



ZAIRE
Social Sector Project
Project Cost Estimates
Summary Account by Project Component
Social                                            Sante    Nais.
Min. of                      Surveys                                           Pour   Desir. A
Ministry Health - Environ.                 A       Pilot  Tryponso                        Tous      Surv.
of Plan  FONAMES    *nt   CONDIFFA   Studies Projects  mosias  CEPLANUT  Iodine  Kinshasa   Mat.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
____________________
A. Equipment                           20      2012        26      103        34        22        62        76        76      200       141
B. Vehicles                            64        81        90       63        46        16        64        70       172      198       132
C. Training and Seminars              173         0       136       69         0       270        46        78       119      871        48
D. Building Rehabilitation              0        43         0       26         0         0         0         0        0       913       368
E. Technical Assistance                96        64       160       60       120       119       288         0       68         0        38
F. Operational Research                 0         0         0        0        46       212         0         0        0        320        0
0. PPF                                  0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0    c
H. Studies                              0         0         0       30       300         0         0       188       109         0       88
1. Supplies a Materials                20        0        70        10         0         0         0         4        6       619       200
Total INWESTMENT COSTS                363      2190       471      360       544       639       440       396       547     3122      1013
II. RECURRENT COSTS
-__----------------
A. Equipment Maintenance               10        26        4         6         4         6        29        13        4         0        17
B. Modicines                            0         0        0         0         0         0       469        0       660       378       760
C. Vehicle Maintenance                 32        48       49        44        28         9        32       43        82       108       206
0. Salaries                             0         0       120        0       481        48         0       154       83         0         0
E. Stipends and Travel                 60        0        20        30        48       114        34       126      149         0         0
F. Materials & Supplies                20        12        10       20        31        16         1        10      141        27        36
0. Rent                                 0         0        12        0         0         0         0         0        0        42         0
-----------------------..-----------------------------------------------__---__---------------------------------
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 112        87      215       100       692       193       584       345     1009       663      1007
Total BASELINE COSTS                  476      2276      685       461      1136       831      1004       740      1656     3674      2020
Physical Contingencies               18       217        26       27        14         7        60        18        98      341       177
Price Contingencies                  69       264       107       48       191       109       159        97      214       622       335
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Total PROJECT COSTS                   680      2768      817       638      1342       947      1223       855     1868      4637      2632
Taxes                                 0        0         0         0         0         0         0                                            ,0  0 
Foreign Exchange                    187      2166      490       336       418       276      1020      302      1179      2644      1764 w
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  I
Values Scaled by 1000.0  11/6/1990 9:67                                                                                                      r  :.
4 :-



ZAIRE
Social Sector Project
Project Cost Estimates
Summary Account by Project Component
WS
Rural                                       Physical          Price
Im_uniza            Health    Project                           Contingencies     Contingencies
tion     Leprosy   Zones - Manageme                         ---------------------------------
Program   and TO      ECZ       nt        PPF      Total        %     Amount      X   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
____________________
A. Equipment                           216       194      1630        s0        0      47G1        10       475      14       681
B. Vehicles                            692        94      l184       196        0      3041         10      304      13       408
C. Training and Seminars               420        0         18       216        0      2462         0         0      14       347
0. Building Rehabilitation               0         0       640        0         0      1989        10       199      16       314
E. Technical Assistance                 0         0         0      2490         0      3481         0         0      13       456
F. Operational Research                 0         0        s0         0         0       627         0         0      15        97
0. PPF                                  0         0         0         0      1600      1500         0         0       0         0
H. Studies                              0         0         0         0         0       893         0         0      13        91
I. Supplies A Materials                 0         0         0        16         0       943        10        94      16       144
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                1229      289      3422      2965      1600    19488          6      1072      13      2636
II. RECURRENT COSTS
-------------------
A. Equipment Maintenance                0        60         0         8         0       183        10        18      1S        27
8. Medicines                          1170      1104      1960        0         0      6378        10       638      18      116
C. Vehicle Malntenance                 16S      128       471       102         0      1634        14       209      22       342
D  Salaries                             0         0         0        17         0       902         0         0      19       174
E. Stipends and Travel                 139      118       378        80         0      1287         0         0      17       216
F. Matorials A Supplies                 0         0         0        20         0       344        10        34    l          67
C. Rent                                 0         0         0       300         0       354         0         0      17        61
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 1484      1408     2809       624         0     10981         8       900      19      2040
Total BASELINE COSTS                  2892     1697      8231      3489      1600    30469          8      1972      1S      4676
Physical Contingencies               213      158       581        39         0      1972
Price Contingencies                  445      295      1168       464         0      4576         6       295
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__------------------__---
Total PROJECT COSTS                  3361      2160      7950      3992      1600    37017          6      2287      12      4676
Taxes                                 0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0 
Foreign Exchange                    2667     1846      6182      2781      1200    26234          7      1787                            OQ
Values Scaled by 1000.0  11/8/1990 9:67                                                                                                    4-
o  rX
m  ><



- 67 -
ANNEX XI
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
USSMILLION
IDA FY/QUARTER END              DISBURSEMENT DURING             ACCUMULATED
QUARTERS                 DIS8URSEMENTS        PERCENTAGES
FY91
June 30, 1991                        1.6                          1.6                 5
FY92
September 30, 1991                   1.2                          2.7                 4
December 31, 1991                    1.2                          3.9                 4
March 31, 1992                       1.2                          5.1                 4
Juno 30, 1992                        1.2                          6.3                 4
FY93
Septemb-r 30, 1992                   1.8                          8.1                 6
December 31, 1992                    2.1                         10.2                 7
March 31, 1993                       2.2                         12.4                 7
Juno 30, 1993                        2.4                         14.8                 8
FY94
September 30, 1993                   2.4                         17.2                 8
December 31, 1993                    2.4                         19.6                 8
March 31, 1994                       2.5                         22.1                 8
Jun. 30, 1994                        2.4                         24.5                 8
FY96
September 30, 1994                   2.0                         26.6                 7
December 3L, 1994                    1.2                         27.7                 4
March 31, 1995                       1.0                         28.7                 3
June 30, 1996                        1.0                        29.7                  3
FY96
September 30, 1996                   0.5                         30.2                 2
December 31, 1996                    0.2                         30.4               100



2AIRE SOCTAL SECTOR PROJECT
ORCANIZATIONAL CIIART
NATIONAL SOCIAI.
SECTOR COMMITTEE
MINISTER OF                                                        SECTORAL
PLANNING                                                        COMMITTEES
PCU
OD
ISUPPORT OF SOCIAL                                                                 SUPPORT OF PIIN
SECTOR REFORMS                                                                       PROCRAMS
SDA SURVEYS           RATIONALIZATIO4   1       [
AND                      OF                  PILOT PROJECTS                     HEALTSA                                  NUTRITION
SOCIAL STUDIES         COVERNMENT ROLE                                                                   UH[
|DEVELOPMENT OF |   |UDCETARY ALLOCATIONS           DEVELOPMENT OF I                                                 I  CIE C
STATISTICAL            TO HEAL1ll AND             INTEIISECTOIIAL
CAPABILITIES  |          EDUCATION        |      SOCIAL POLICIES
1  __  _ _  |   I .  I   I                 I                        | t~~~~~~~        ~     ~~~~~~~~UDIL C  ||REGIONAL I   1m
_     IAL11   INU111lrlUN  A-                   1X
I PIIU(;SAI^S I   ACY]VI11ES|              IF
'-.4



- 69 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 1
SELECTED WORKING DOCUMENTS
1.    Zaire, AIDS Control Project, SAR No. 7260-ZR
2.    Education Sector Review, Report No. 7169-ZR, February 1989
3.    Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review, Report No. 7013-ZR,
May 1989
4.    WID Country Assessment and Strategy Paper, June 1990,
Report No. 8537-ZR
5.    Health Sector Financing Study, Consultant Report, March 1989
6.    Drug Sector Assessment, Consultant Report, March 1989
7.    NGOs in Zaire, Consultant Report, March 1989
8.    Nutrition Policy and Programs, Government Proposal, July 1989
9.    Education Sector Financing Study, UNESCO, July 1989
10.   Zaire Environmental Issues Paper, AF3, July 1989
11.   Proposal for Community-based Initiative in Zaire, UNDP, October 1989
12.   Social Sector Round Table, PASS presentation (five volumes),
October 1989
13.   Aspects of Poverty in Zaire, SDA Country Assessment Paper,
July 1990, Report NO. 7812-ZR
14.   Health Insurance in Zaire, Consultant Report, AFTPN, April 1990
15.   Health Sector PEP, Consultant Report, December 1989
16.   The Environment Component of PASS, Consultant Report,
December 1989
17.   Education Sector Rehabilitation Project, SAR no. 8124-ZR,
December 1989
18.   PASS Working Papers, April - December 1989.
19.   Detailed Project Cost Estimates, July 1990
20.   Analytical Review of Government Expenditure, Report No 8995-ZR,
September 1990



SUDAN
NIG~ERIA   2            A
z ,}                    N       IGERIA                      /             g jJ ( g ETHIOPIA  'NANGU
jCAMEROONkCENTRAL AFRICAN REH .                                             E N r                                                 -
X/G&A2A KENYA
GABON 
ZJ AI RE         B0UNOI                                    . '
'AKflOh0: 1'7TANZANIA                                                                                                                                                                                  U
ANGOLA                          Z.
[r~~ ~~~~ ~~ ZAMBIA                           i       ;l                                                                            <<                               k       w        IGA
PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
GABON                               OF THCONGO                                                                                    i-'1 )  ?GO_r\
F                                                                                                                                                                                   4.~~~O HEC
BRAZZVLLE                B
AT I A II C r                           .                                                      0 C *                                                                                        TANZANL IA
K  f A N
?  1 0K Ilo  r olars   H o mo                                   ~ ~ iA t             9                                    \ oE o . f2                                                                       orXV
o    00   100   15   200
O. tt C ljo                                                                                                                 _ t *                          b
8              ~            ~ ~~~~2'                 160 -_h_tr rl \(fv                                                                                         z            $e
ZAIRE                                                                                            I AM 
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
POPULATION DENSITY:         -     Paved Roads                                                                                                                                                         [;
bove 40 km'                       Mam Earth Gravel Roads
15.40Am                     -     Ra,roads                                             TAhO                                                                              h .. b -- 0  ROLZ  by
5-15km'                           A~rfieId                               ANGOL                                                                                     Ir.oa,aeIR
belo, 5 k-m'                      National Capitals                                                                                                  -rlamat -or Th)o          wod 0,0I,
e    Regon Capitals                                                                                        .Alb. O"nOfl*OdtOff                                            K,.
Zone Bo.nda,,es                                                                                                                 N10 M. rh bw 8ra   01010 oLatS.
S . Region Boundaries                                         .ZAMBIA                                             \        *        Z  %raroJ        
- -  Inlernational Boundaries ,                                                                                                         A'



