Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15880
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2196-ZR)
June 28, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Z (zaire)/NZ (new zaires) per USS
1989         1990         1991         1992         1993          1994         1995
127.120      239.470      63.673       215.140       35.000        1.194       14.830
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
Januany I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCT            Bureau central de trvpanosomiase (Central Bureau for Trypanosomiasis
Control)
BCC/SIDA       Bureau central de coordinationiSIDA (Central Bureau for AIDS Coordination)
BEP            Bureau d 'etudes et de planification (Research and Planning Bureau)
BNL            Bureau national de lutte contre la lepre (National Bureau for Leprosy Control)
BNT            Bureau national de lutte contre la tuberculose (National Bureau for Tuber-
culosis Control)
CECAP          Cellule d'etudes et de coordination des activities de population (Population
Activities Research and Coordination Unit)
CENADIF        Centre national de documentation et d'information pour lafamille (National
Center for Documentation and Information on the Family)
CEPLANUT    Centre national de planijication dle la nutrition (National Center for Nutrition
Planning)
CONDIFFA      Departement de la condition de lafJemme el de la.famille (Department of
Women's and Familv Affairs)
ECZ            Eglise du Christ au Zaire (Church of Christ in Zaire)
FONAMES        Fonds national mecdico-sanitaire (National Medical and Health Fund)
LMTE           Lutte contre les maladies transmissibles de I 'enfance (Campaign against
Communicable Childhood Diseases)
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PASS           Social Sector Project/Social Sector Adjustment Program
PEV           Programme elargi de vaccination (Expanded Immunization Program)
PNFC           Programme national dce Jbrmation continue (National Continuing Training
Program)
PSND           Projet tie service dles naissances dclsirahles (National Family Planning
Project)
SANRU          Soins de santk primaires en milieu rural (Rural Primary Health Care Service)
SNSA          Sernice national des statistiques agricoles (National Agricultural Statistics
Service)
STD            Sexually transmitted disease
TDCI           Troubles dus aux carences en iode (Iodine Deficiency Disorders)
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
Source: International Financial Statistics Yearbook 1995 and IMF. The rates indicated are average
annual real exchange market rates. The old currency, the zaire (Z), was replaced in October 1993 by
the new zaire (NZ), on a basis of NZ 1 for Z 3,000.000.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2196-ZR)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................                                                                                    ii
1. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................................1
A. BACKGROUND    .......................................................                                                                                      1
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ........................................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES  ........................................................3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ........................................................6
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ........................................................9
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................................9
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .......................................................                                                                             10
I. FUTURE OPERATION  ..1..................................................... 1
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .......................................................                                                                               11
2. STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................                                                                                13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .......................................................                                                                     13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .......................................................                                                                  15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                                                                            ....................................................... 16
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED  AND ACTUAL  ............................................. 16
TABLE 5: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                   ....................................................... 17
TABLE 6: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .......................................................                                                      21
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED  IN PROJECT .......................................................                                                               22
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS .......................................................                                                                              23
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .......................................................                                                                         23
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .......................................................                                                                23
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .......................................................                                                                 24
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS                                                       .................................... 26
TABLE  12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS .......................................................                                                            26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS .......................................................                                                                 27
MAP IBRD 22681
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2196 ZR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for- the Social Sector Project
in Zaire for which Credit 2196 ZR in the amount of SDR 21.9 million (US$30.4 million)
was approved on December 18, 1990, signed on February 1, 1991, and made effective on
January23, 1992.
2.    The final disbursement of Credit proceeds took place on February 7, 1994. The
undisbursed amount of SDR 15.2 million (US$21.1 million), or 69% of total proceeds,
was canceled on January 20, 1995, although the initial closing date set was December 31,
1995. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was prepared to contribute
up to US$2.9 million to the project but decided to withdraw its offer of financing at the
beginning of 1993 in view of the political and economic situation in Zaire, at which point it
had still made no disbursement.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Mr. Magaye Gaye, consultant, under the supervision of
Ms. Dieneba Diarra, Population and Human Resources Division, Central Africa and Indian
Ocean Department, Africa Regional Office. Significant contributions were made by
Professor Rudi Chizungu, the former Project Coordinator, and by Mr. Raymond Martin,
the Bank's Task Manager for the project from 1993 to 1995. The document was reviewed
by Messrs. David Berk, Division Chief (AF3PH) and Padmanabha Hari Prasad, Operations
Adviser (AF3DR).
4.    The conclusions of this ICR are based on the content of project-related
documentation available within the Bank. The last project supervision mission took place
in October 1994, and no mission visited Zaire in connection with preparation of this
document.
5.    This ICR has been reviewed by the Government of Zaire, which has not
commented nor prepared its own evaluation report on the project.






SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2196 ZR)
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Despite achievements in the fields of population, health,- nutrition, and education,
social indicators in Zaire remain poor. To this must be added the effects of the AIDS
epidemic, which has ravaged the urban population, with an accompanying decline in its
economic potential. Regarded as a means of counteracting the rapid deterioration evident
throughout the social sectors, the project under review here (Credit 2196 ZR) was the first
innovative multi-sectoral operation financed by the World Bank in Zaire. Its focus was
social sector reform in order to enable the authorities to meet the basic needs of
disadvantaged social groups in the spheres of health, population, nutrition, education,
environmental affairs, and women's participation in development. Unfortunately, the
project implementation process was brought to a halt after two years of operation, and
only a third of Credit proceeds could be disbursed.
Statement/evaluation of project objectives
2.    The project was initially designed as a hybrid operation (Social Sector Adjustment
Credit) with IDA financing of US$105 million, consisting of US$60 million to be
disbursed rapidly for balance of payments purposes and US$45 million to be channeled
into an investment component. However, in view of the persistent deterioration in the
country's macroeconomic position and the Government's lack of determination as far as
corrective measures were concerned, IDA resolved in 1990 to adopt a minimal program
for Zaire. To this end, it was decided to eliminate the rapid-disbursement programs and to
concentrate on funding investment projects in priority sectors. Plans for this project were
modified accordingly in September 1990, and emphasis placed on protecting the country's
human capital. The IDA contribution to project financing was reduced to US$30.4
million. (Refer to para. 1.6 below.)
3.    The redesigned project was centered around three key objectives: (a) to protect
vulnerable population groups from the adverse social effects of a deteriorating economy,
by establishing and monitoring budgetary allocations for basic health care and primary
education and by mobilizing NGOs engaged in the provision of social services; (b) to work
in conjunction with other donors to maintain essential public health, nutrition, and family
planning programs so as to prevent further deterioration in the health status of the
population; and (c) to prepare future projects and programs in the social sectors by
establishing new policies on women in development, population, and the environment, and



Evaluation Summary                                                     iii
by developing national capacity to collect and analyze social indicators. In retrospect, it
may be affirmed that these multi-sectoral objectives were specific enough to be achievable
in practice. (Refer to para. 1.7 below.)
Achievement of objectives
4.    In overall terms, the project implementation record was not satisfactory, since only
a third of operations planned were actually carried out. Activity on this particular project
had come to a virtual standstill by July 15, 1993 as a consequence of the suspension of
disbursements on all projects in Zaire for its non-payment of arrears. The Bank decided to
cancel its loans in Zaire after Zaire joined the ranks of countries in non-accrual status in
November 1993, except that official cancellation of this last Credit was delayed for a
further twelve months since it was considered a priority instrument to keep for responding
to needs with an inter-generational impact in the event the country's political and
economic situation subsequently improved. Once it became apparent not only that the
project could not be implemented owing to the unfavorable environment but also that
other channels of communication with the Government had been established, the Bank
decided to close the project down, and on January 20, 1995 the remainder of the Credit
was canceled. (Refer to para. 1.10 below.)
5.    Those project operations that were carried out consisted mainly of procurement of
equipment, supplies and pharmaceutical products for the agencies responsible for
execution of Part B of the project (Support for Programs). Most Part A (Social Sector
Reform) activities, however, could not be executed. (Refer to paras. 1.12-1.18 below.)
6.    The various reasons for the very limited nature of these project results can be
grouped in two main categories: (i) unpropitious socio-political and economic climate in
which the project was launched and partly executed - rioting, looting, strikes,
hyperinflation (250% in 1990 and 1,300% in 1991), a 30% plunge in GDP, and
precipitous drops in output of export products (copper, 90%; cement, 70%; petroleum
products, 50%); and (ii) factors linked to project implementation, namely the weak
institutional capacity of the various project executing agencies (which were also not
conversant with Bank procedures), poor resource management during the first months
(with resulting changes in project management personnel), and the Government's lack of
motivation as far as its project execution obligations were concerned. (Refer to paras.
1.19 and 1.20 below.)
7.    Project impact on the population groups targeted was minimal given the very
limited number of project activities completed and the unsustained nature of the steps
taken toward institutional reform (systematization of supplementary budget allocations for
social services). The principle of supplementary budget allocations for social services was
applied in 1990 only. However, despite everything, there was one positive and innovative
project outcome deserving of mention here: creation of a forum for consultation between
the Government, on the one hand, and development-oriented NGOs and denominational
groups, on the other. (Refer to para. 1.35 below.)



iv                                               ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Future operation and key lessons learned
8.     Because the project was closed down prematurely, only isolated actions were
carried out in support of population, health, and nutrition programs. Such actions - in
the form of subsidy arrangements and purchases of pharmaceutical products and vaccines
for the executing agencies (refer to para. 1.17 below) - were not continued by the
Government after project closure, for lack of the necessary financial resources.' Similarly,
the management system developed under project auspices to ensure improved allocation
of budget resources to the social sectors fell out of use. It must also be noted that no
PASS component operations continue at the present time, with the exception of the
Project Coordination Office, which still exists as a legal entity but, since closure of the
project, has ceased its supervision of PASS activities. For the moment, there appears to
be no clear impetus on the part of the Government to resume the actions begun as part of
PASS. (Refertopara. 1.38.)
9.     Among the many lessons to be learned from this failed project, the most significant
point up the need to: (i) take account of the prevailing socio-economic climate in any
prospective borrower country, by making a rigorous assessment of the political, economic,
and social situation and hence of the feasibility of implementation of the project as
planned; (ii) ensure that the institutions responsible for implementing the project take part
in all phases of the design and planning process so as to secure their support for the new
venture, and thereby facilitate its actual implementation; (iii) promote the private sector as
provider of essential services in the areas of health care, nutrition, and family planning,
thereby supplementing the work of the authorities in the social sectors, where they are not
capable of providing full coverage alone; (iv) attend to the institutional strengthening of
any entities with project implementation responsibilities; and (v) define the roles of the
various project implementing agencies beforehand. (para. 1.41 below.)
10.   Finally, the situation of socio-political and economic crisis existing in Zaire in the
1990s and up to the time this project was closed was not conducive to the satisfactory
implementation of any project or program, even under the most effective management.
The executing agencies, which were in operation prior to the launching of PASS, have remained in
operation since its closure. Good examples are CEPAM and CARITAS, two NGOs that play a major
role in the import and distribution of pharmaceutical products throughout the country. Some of the
agencies continue to receive financial assistance from donors other than the Bank - for instance,
from UNICEF and the European Union.






SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2196 ZR)
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.1   Although there have been some positive achievements over the last three decades
of development in Zaire (for instance, life expectancy increased from 44 years in 1955 to
close to 50 years by 1989), the major social indicators are currently mediocre. According
to Bank statistics, under-five mortality is close to 150 per 1,000; maternal mortality is
estimated at 600 per 100,000 births, the gross primary enrollment ratio declined from 92%
in 1978 to 76% in 1988. More disturbing still, these indicators, which had been improving
steadily up until about 1990, have tended to remain stationary or to worsen since the
country's political and economic deterioration.
1.2   The social sectors in Zaire have certain distinct features: a wide diversity of service
providers, the particularly important part played by NGOs, and high consumer
participation in operating costs. For instance, in the health sector approximately 80% of
services are provided by denominational NGOs (Protestant, Catholic, Kimbanguist,
Muslim), donor-supported and community-based projects, local associations of private
practitioners (including traditional healers), and the medical departments of private, public
and parastatal enterprises. In the education sector, the churches manage 80% of primary
and 66% of secondary education. In both sectors, recovery of operating costs through
user charges is high (50% on average) and is beginning to outstrip the ability of low-
income groups to pay, as a result of years of rampant inflation. (These figures date from
the end of the 1980s.) The decrease in school attendance and health facility utilization in
the country's poorer regions is generally attributed to high user charges.
1.3   One reason for the quantitative and qualitative decline in social services has been
the gradual shrinking of government funding. Appropriations to the health sector dropped
from 5% of the recurrent budget in 1978 to 3% in 1985 and under 2% in 1988. In overall
terms, given the prevailing financial constraints, the authorities were allocating less than
US$0.50 per inhabitant per year for health at the end of the 1980s, the lowest figure in
sub-Saharan Africa, where the average is close to US$2. In the case of the education
sector, appropriations dropped from 24% of the total in 1978 to 12% in 1985 and to 8%
in 1988. Since the crisis of 1991, the situation has deteriorated even further.
1.4  In view of the lack of political will on the part of the Government to proceed with
the fundamental changes in economic management required to return the country to the



2                                                  ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
path of sustainable development, the World Bank decided in 1990 to cut back the amount
of its assistance to Zaire. The strategy was to suspend all rapidly disbursing lending
arrangements and adopt a reduced program of projects in priority sectors.
1.5   It was against this background that the Bank approved a credit of US$30.4 million
to Zaire to fund the Social Sector Project (PASS). Intended as a direct response to the
Government's Social Policy Statement of October 15, 1990, this operation was designed
first of all to help halt the deterioration and then to create the setting for implementation of
a national social policy.
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.6   Initially, the project was conceived as a hybrid operation in the context of the
Government's structural adjustment program - in other words, as a Social Sector
Adjustment Credit. It was to consist of (a) execution of social policies linked to rapid
disbursement of funds, (b) priority social programs; (c) institutional strengthening of
governmental and non-governmental entities; and (d) collection and analysis of social
statistics. IDA financing was envisaged as totaling US$105 million, of which US$60
million was to be rapidly disbursing balance of payments support, with the remaining
US$45 million reserved for an investment component. However, following IDA's
decision to cut back on its involvement in Zaire by eliminating adjustment operations
(para. 1.4 above), project plans were modified in September 1990 so as to emphasize
protection ofthe country's human capital. Total project cost was thus reduced to US$37
million, and IDA's contribution to US$30.4 million.
1.7   The objectives of the redefined project were to: (a) protect vulnerable population
groups from the adverse social effects of a deteriorating economy; (b) maintain essential
public health, nutrition, and family planning programs; and (c) lay the foundations for
fuiture projects in the social sectors by establishing new policies on improving the
situtation of women, population and the environment and reinforcing the capacity to
collect and analyze social indicators. Achievement of these objectives was to be based on:
(a) introduction of supplementary budget allocations for basic health care and primary
education; (b) mobilization of NGOs to play an expanded role in the delivery of social
services; (c) building up national social statistics capabilities; and (d) studies.
1.8   The project consisted of two major components, one focused on support of social
sector reforms and the other on development of action program in population, health, and
nutrition programs:
* Part A - Social Sector Reform: The main objective of this component was to
support reform in the social sectors through three types of activity: (a) rationalization of
the Government's role in social services; (b) surveys and studies; and (c) pilot projects.
Its specific goals were: (i) increased budget allocations for basic health care and for
primary and secondary education in 1990, 1991 and 1992 (coverage of 150 health zones,
and facilities for I million secondary pupils and 4.1 million primary pupils); and (ii) a rapid



Project Implementation Assessment                                         3
survey of rural and urban households (to be repeated annually) to identify vulnerable
groups and generate social indicators.
*     Part B -  Support for Population, Health, and Nutrition Programs: The
immediate purpose was to establish social programs to respond quickly to the basic needs
of population groups with little or no access to basic health, family planning and nutrition
services. The project was to support already existing priority programs in these spheres.
The results anticipated were: (i) better access to primary health care for three million iural
and one million urban inhabitants; (ii) access to family planning services for a total of five
million persons; (iii) an increase in vaccination coverage from 37% to 47%; (iv) increased
surveillance of persons at risk for trypanosomiasis; and (v) a 5% reduction in iodine
deficiency disorders.
1.9   In addition to these components, the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) was to provide institutional support valued at US$2.9 million for the PASS over
a three-year period through technical assistance in the areas of social policy, health,
nutrition, population; supply and distribution of pharmaceutical products; and advisory
services at Department level. It was also to include help in preparing community-based
and NGO projects suitable for extemal funding and in their financial management.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.10  Although its initial projected closing date was December 1995, the project was
halted prematurely after only two years in operation. On July 15, 1993, the Bank had
suspended all disbursements to Zaire in view of the country's accumulation of arrears
since the preceding May 15, and subsequently, on November 15 that year, had placed
Zaire in non-accrual status, an event which hastened project closings. Of the 17 credits
still open after November 1993, the Bank canceled the undisbursed proceeds of 16, the
one exception being the Social Sector Project, which had an undisbursed balance of
US$21.5 million. The explanation for this single exception was that the Bank wished to
avoid total rupture of its relations with Zaire and was intent on keeping alive at least one
instrument through which to address the country's inter-generational needs. Given the
real possibilities of addressing such needs in the circumstances prevailing in Zaire, this was
an optimistic decision. Once it became clear subsequently that the project objectives could
not be achieved, and that other channels of communication with the Government of Zaire
had been opened up, IDA closed this project as well in January 1995
1.11   The final outcome of the project represented only a very small part of the original
plans made (para. 1.8). For lack of fiull statistical data, its results were not measurable in
terms of the evaluation indicators defined There now follows a summary of the project
actions it was possible to carry out



4                                                  ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Part A: Social Sector Reform
1.12  The three types of essential activity underlying this component were to be: (a)
rationalization of the Government's role in social services, through formulation of inter-
sectoral social policies; (b) carrying out of surveys and studies to identify target groups
and establish indicators for the evaluation of standards of living; and (c) execution of
socio-economic studies to provide a basis for analysis of household behaviors and for
recommendations regarding improvements in sector policies. Such activities were not
completed, however. In the case of the first, payment by the Government of 1992 budget
allocations for basic health and education services has not been confirmed. As regards the
proposed surveys and studies on living standards, nothing was done. In the case of the
socio-economic studies planned, the definition of socio-economic indicators for measuring
sectoral levels of effective integration of women into the development process was
finalized by the Research and Planning Bureau (BEP). In addition, a financial
reprogramming system was developed in the course of the project to ensure best possible
management of the funding provided by the Government of Japan for basic health and
education services. The Coordination Office achieved the skill transfer needed to master
this system to the benefit of the executing agencies.
1.13   The reprogramming system was in operation for only twelve months, and was
allowed to lapse in 1991.
1.14  In keeping with IDA's recommendations, education and health benefited from
increased budget allocations in 1990. Unfortunately, the socio-political crisis led to the
looting and economic collapse of 1991, and, as the situation continued to deteriorate, the
state's participation in the education and health sectors dropped offconsiderably.
Part B: Support for Population, Health, and Nutrition Programs
1.15   By 1992, the prevailing economic and political chaos had destroyed any likelihood
of achieving the objectiveof social sector adjustment. In the circumstances, the
coordinators of the project concentrated chiefly on its second objective, namely to support
population, health, and nutrition programs targeting disadvantaged groups. To this end,
an institutional framework for coordination was established called the "Committee of
Directors of Executing Agencies" to channel the efforts of the agencies more effectively.
This move on the part of the Coordinating Office gave the executing agencies a degree of
institutional stability at a stage when there was less and less certainty that governmental
institutions would continue operating. In its capacity as an autonomous entity, this Office
was able to coordinate public health activities and efforts to defend the interests of the
population. It was also able to serve as facilitator in the relationship between the
Government and the project executing agencies. This group of agencies consisted of
ECZ/SANRU: Eglise du Christ au Zaire/Project des soins de sante primaire en milieu
rural (Church of Christ in Zaire/Rural Primary Health Care Delivery Project)
PEV: Programme elargi de vaccination (Expanded Program on Immunization)



Project Implementation Assessment                                           5
BCT: Bureau central de tryanosomiase (Central Bureau for Trypanosomiasis Control)
BNL: Bureau nationalpour la kpre (National Bureau for Leprosy Control)
BNT: Bureau national pour la tuberculose (National Bureau for Tuberculosis Control)
TDCI: Agence "Troubles dus aux carences en iode " (Agency for Iodine Deficiency
Disorders)
CECAP: Cellule d'etudes el de coordination des activites de population (Population
Activities Research and Coordination Unit)
CENADIF: Centre national de documentation et d'information pour lafamille (National
Center for Documentation and Information on the Family)
CEPLANUT: Centre national de planifi cation en nutrition humaine (National Center for
Nutrition Planning)
PNFC: Programme national deformation continue (National Continuing Training
Program)
and The agency responsible for the environment.
.16   However, this institutional framework for coordination functioned successfully
only in connection with exchanges of information on expectations and promotion of better
understanding by the Government of the role of the NGOs - and only for a short time,
because ofthe constraints limited to the country's socio-economic situation.
.17   Under this component of the project, it also proved possible to purchase supplies
and equipment to enable the executing agencies to move ahead with their programs.
However, given the deterioration of the information system that had been set up, it has
been impossible to assess the impact of such actions, which are now summarized below:
(a)    Purchase of pharmaceutical and related articles: The project Coordination Office
was finalizing a US$15 million bidding operation (some contracts had already been signed)
for the procurement of essential drugs and medical equipment when the suspension of
Bank disbursements on July 15, 1993 brought it to a halt. Only paramedical items, to a
value of US$5 million, were made prior to the suspension.
In addition to the prescribed project actions, the Coordination Office undertook other activities, such
as the distribution of USS500,000 worth of classroom supplies (slates, chalk, blackboards, pencils) to
public schools at a time when they lacked everything. These articles were bought from the proceeds
of a Japanese grant. The fact that Japan chose the Coordination Office to handle this distribution
exercise was an affirrastion of its credibility compared to the chaos that reigned in the Ministry of
Education.



6                                                ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
(b)   Importation of water-treatment chemicals: Although this action did not form
part of initial project plans, the decision was made - with IDA consent - to allocate
approximately US$1 million for importation of chemicals to ensure clean water supplies to
Kinshasa and its environs. The justification here was the deteriorating socio-economic
situation and the accompanying scarcity of foreign exchange, factors that prevented the
Water Authority (REGIDESO) from engaging in this import operation itself This project
intervention on behalf of REGIDESO enabled it to seek additional financial resources
from other donors.
(c)   Importation of vaccines: Through UNICEF, vaccines worth US$400,000 were
imported for the Enhanced Program on Immunization, at a point when its supplies were
exhausted, an action that allowed restocking of 11 of the 30 Program satellite units set up
in health zones (a coverage rate of 37%).
(d)   Importation of pharmaceuticals, worth US$300,000, for TDCI (Agency for
Iodine Deficiency Disorders) and BNT (National Bureau for Tuberculosis). This
expenditure covered a major shipment of iodized oil (198 cases of Lipiodel capsules and
250 cases of ampoules for injection).
1.18  While the objectives of the project were clearly defined from the beginning, they
were not accomplished, even though it proved possible to carry out some activities.
Achievement of those objectives required considerable resources, as well as the active
participation of all parties concerned, whether governmental or nongovernmental, and
local communities. In addition, major institutional adjustments were also essential to
successful implementation of the project, but were not forthcoming in a climate in which
the administration was virtually paralyzed and had lost all motivation and authority. The
Coordination Office created under the project with a skeleton staff of three was therefore
unable to succeed alone without the commitment of the Government and the support of
the technical ministries involved in the project.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1.19  The framework required for social sector adjustment was nonexistent in the 1990s
following the organizational and financial collapse of the Government during the project
implementation period. The Bank should certainly have taken account of the existing
situation, inappropriate for the successful implementation of any project. The project was
affected by factors connected with the political, economic, and social climate in Zaire from
1990 to 1993 as well as with the project implementation process itself on the other:
(a)   Political climate: The country had lived through a serious political crisis, which
led in 1990 to adoption of a multiparty system. Unfortunately, the political agenda put
forward in 1991, which was designed to clarify the situation itself and advocated a
National Conference followed by legislative and presidential elections, did not produce the
anticipated results. From then on, the political system remained deadlocked, with
significant effects in the economic and social spheres.



Project Implementation Assessment                                         7
(b)   Economic climate: After the failure of its adjustment program in 1987, Zaire
entered on a period of acute economic crisis and hyperinflation. The political impasse
exacerbated the unprecedented economic conditions, which included inflation rates of
250% and 1,300% in 1990 and 1991 respectively,2 with the corresponding difficulties of
access to foreign exchange and drop in purchasing power.
(c)    Social climate: In the wake of the political stalemate, social turmoil, more serious
in urban areas and especially the capital, Kinshasa, erupted, with anarchy and the flouting
of aDl public order and legal restraints. Strikes, looting, and rioting were ife throughout
the country, with the safety of property and persons nowhere to be counted on. This
acute disruption resulted in widespread poverty and the disappearance of jobs in the
formal sector, with accompanying rapid deterioration in standards of living.
1.20  Over and above the obstacles presented by a general environment hardly conducive
to the execution of any project or program, project implementation was affected by the
folowing specific project-related problems:
(a)   Executing agencies weak in institutional capacity: In retrospect, the Bank could
have evaluated the institutional capabilities of the executing agencies more accurately. AB
it did was to evaluate the proposals for funding lodged by the different agencies, without
looking into their capacity. The Coordination Office, being newly created, was not
equipped to coordinate the activities of numerous agencies satisfactorily, nor was it fuDy
acquainted with the Bank's disbursement and procurement procedures. Moreover, the
executing agencies themselves, some of them governmental but the majority either NGOs
or denominational groups with their own working methods, were unfamiliar with IDA
procedures and lacked the capacity to complete project activities rapidly.
(b)   Poor management of project resources in its earlyyears: These problems led in
1992 to replacement of the managing team, and to stricter management controls exercised
by a financial consultant with a mandate to supervise project financial administration and
set up a computerized accounting system.
(c)   Irregular and infrequent Bank supervision over a 15-month period owing to the
prevailing security difficulties, meant that the Coordination Office was deprived of
opportunities to rectify the management shortcomings that had already put the preparation
and processing of international procurement procedures off schedule.
(d)   Poor administration of project resources by the Coordination Office in the early
stages undermined the sound planning of project activities. Certain major purchases could
have been effected through international procurement prior to the suspension of
2 GDP fell by 30%. Output of export commodities also fell very sharply: copper, 90%; cement, 700/0;
and petroleum products, 50%. Widespread corruption and significant accumulation of arrears led to
the point where the country ceased meeting its payment obligations, including those stemming from
this project.



8                                               ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
disbursements had the Coordination Office monitored the bidding process more
effectively.
(e)   Nonpayment of counterpartfunds by the Government from 1992 onwards: This
was an obstacle to execution of the project which meant there was little chance its
objectives would be accomplished.
(f)   Numerous changes in the arrangementsfor project supervision and coordination
resulted in a lack of management continuity and delays in getting activities under way.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.21  Implementation of whatever project activities were actually carried out was the
work of the Coordination Office and the following executing agencies: BCT, BNL, BNT,
PEV/LMTE, PSND, ECZ/SANRU, SPT/KIN, BN/TDCI, BEP, CECAP, CENADIF, and
SNSA. The Coordination Office, an autonomous entity independent of the administration,
whose mandate was to perform certain technical functions in the areas of supervision and
liaison with other entities, ceased operations, defacto, once disbursements were
suspended.
1.22  The activities of the executing agencies, and particularly the governmental entities
among them, were slowed down, if not brought to a standstill, by lack of financial
resources and by disaffection among their personnel.
1.23  The question of sustainability applies not only to project activities but also to the
institutional arrangements set up as part of the project. In the case of the activities
themselves, they did not improve the country's social services. Certain prevention
services have deteriorated or disappeared, with the result that there is now a resurgence of
iodine deficiency disorders, cholera, tuberculosis, communicable diseases,
trypanosomiasis, and malaria. Moreover, establishment of an autonomous coordination
unit outside the normal existing administrative structures is not conducive to continuation
of project activities if that entity is to disappear on completion of the project. The
activities coordinated will survive into the future only if they are gradually taken over by
existing service agencies or if the coordination operation itself is incorporated into the
organization chart of the administration.
1.24  It may be concluded that the activities carried out under this project are unlikely to
prove sustainable.



Project Implementation Assessment                                      9
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
1.25  The assessment of the Bank's performance is given in Table 1C. Project
identification in March 1988 was satisfactory. The final design in September 1990 was
consistent with Zaire's priorities and with the Bank's assistance strategy toward Zaire.
It must be acknowledged, however, that implementation of such a project was not
possible in the disastrous situation that arose in 1991 and which the Bank should have
been able to foresee. The various project phases were spread out over 33 months: 16
months between identification and appraisal, and 17 months between appraisal of the
project and its approval by the Bank's Board. This long time span was due both to the
project's conversion from a hybrid operation to an investment operation, and to the
problems facing the country at the time. Project preparation and appraisal received
satisfactory ratings, but the impact of the rapid deterioration that occurred from
September 1991 onwards was underestimated. Project supervision was also assessed as
unsatisfactory during a key period right after effectiveness, with a space of 14 months
between two Bank missions because of security conditions in the country.
1.26  From 1988 to 1995, the Bank allocated reasonable personnel resources to the
various phases of the project cycle, a total of 211 staff weeks with an estimated cost of
US$511,600 (see Table 12). This period broke down into: 134 weeks between
identification and Board approval, 22 weeks to effectiveness, 49 weeks of supervision
(i.e. 16 weeks a year for three years), and six weeks devoted to the Implementation
Completion Report. During the implementation period (three years), the project was
visited by five supervision missions (each spending around  11 days in the field)
comprising doctors, public health specialists, and project management specialists.
1.27  When the Bank took action to cancel its loans and credits to Zaire by June 30,
1994, because of the country's failure to pay its arrears, it made an exception in the
case of Credit 2196 ZR for PASS, keeping this operation active so as not to break off
all relations with Zaire and to have a priority assistance tool in place should normal
relations resume. However, when it became clear that the situation had deteriorated to
such an extent that project implementation was out of the question, the Bank canceled
the Credit balance on January 20, 1995.
1.28  In light of the above, it may be concluded that the Bank's overall performance
was unsatisfactory, particularly in relation to certain points mentioned in the project
appraisal.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.29 The Government's performance is assessed in Table ID.
1.30  The absence of an effective government until 1992 created an institutional void
at the decision-making level. Oversight of PASS, originally the responsibility of the
Ministry of Planning, was transferred to the Ministry of Health, whose lack of



10                                               ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
familiarity with the project hindered its progress. Three months after the transfer of
oversight, the Government replaced the PASS Coordinator by an individual of
unproven capacities in the field of project management. This led to substandard
performance in the areas of administrative, accounting and financial management.
According to the 1992 audit, US$200,000 of project funds with a drawn from the
Special Account were not justified by appropriate documentation. They remain
undocumented and have not been reimbursed. Furthermore, the various coordinators
appointed to manage the project worked in isolation, with the result that the project was
not supported by all authorities.
1.31  The project, which had suffered from management problems at the start, was
classified by the World Bank in the "problem projects" category on the occasion of the
very first supervision mission. Various measures were taken by the Bank to improve
project implementation, including an agreement with the Government to replace the
Coordinator. Government performance was affected by the lack of financial resources
resulting from the political and social tensions that were paralyzing economic activity
and preventing the country from paying its debts to the World Bank.
1.32 Where Credit 2196 ZR was concerned, no counterpart funds were disbursed
from 1992 onwards, despite the fact that a standing payment order against the National
Investment Budget account had been obtained in respect of the project.
1.33  With regard to the status of legal covenants, partial compliance was noted,
either by or after the applicable deadlines. At first, the accounting system was
deficient, but corrective measures were introduced in 1993. The Government arranged
for two audits (1992 and 1993), but the problems identified were not addressed.
1.34  The Borrower's performance was rated satisfactory for preparation but
unsatisfactory in implementation, covenance compliance and operation.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
1.35  The project outcome is rated "unsatisfactory" (Table 1E). This assessment is
based on the following factors: (a) non-execution of reforms in the areas of sectoral
and institutional policies; (b) non-execution of studies on the social dimensions of
development; (c) non-execution of pilot projects designed to lay the foundations of new
strategies and social policies; (d) absence of action to rationalize the Government's role
in the social sectors and ensure increased and better targeting of public financing in the
case of health and education services; (e) only partial accomplishment of support
activities for population, health, and nutrition programs (procurement of essential drugs
and of chemicals for the treatment of drinking water; support for local operations run
by a dozen or so agencies); and (f) non-implementation of the following activities:
emergency food aid for selected households (CEPLANUT), institutional support for the
Directorate of Human Settlements with environmental protection activities, retraining
of health personnel through the National Continuing Training Program, etc.



Project Implementation Assessment                                                I11
1.36   The actions which were in fact carried out represent a total disbursement of
US$9.3 million, equivalent to something less than one third of the amount of the IDA
Credit.
1.37   The small part of the program actually carried out needs to be taken further,
while the objectives that were not addressed retain their priority.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
1.38   Because of its premature closure, the project's actions in support of the
population, health and nutrition programs tended to be rather disconnected. Those
actions, which involved subsidies and the procurement of essential drugs and vaccines
for the executing agencies (see paragraph 1. 17) were not continued by the Government
after the project closed because it lacked sufficient funds.' Likewise, the management
system devised by the project with a view to improving budgetary allocations to the
social sectors has been left in abeyance. Lastly, it should be noted that no PASS-
related activities are continuing at the present time, except for the Coordination Office,
which, while still legally extant, has ceased to perform its role of monitor of PASS
activities since the project closed. In view of the foregoing, the Government does not
at present seem to have any definite commitment to resuming the actions initiated
through the project.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.39   Of the many lessons to be learned from this failed project, the following are the
most important:
This failure has shown that any development-related action must absolutely take
account of the environment in which the project is prepared and will be implemented.
As par-t of the project preparation process, the Bank should henceforth make a rigorous
assessment of a country's sociopolitical situation and of its impact on the possibility of
satisfactory implementation.
The Bank should ensure the motivation of the institutions responsible for the
implementation of a given program or project by making them participate fully
throughout the entire project cycle, from design to Board presentation. This will enable
those institutions to become more familiar with the program concerned, which will then
3 It should be noted that the executing agencies alread-y in operation before PASS continued their
activities after project closure. Two NGOs. CEPAM and CARITAS. are playing a major role in the
impor-ting of essential drugs and their distribution throughout the countrv. Somie of the executing
agencies are continuing to receive financial assistance from donors other than the Bank, such as
UNICEF and the European Union.



12                                                 ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
no longer be perceived as being imposed from outside. This will greatly facilitate
implementation.
In the event of the disappearance of effective government agencies, the Bank should
encourage development of the private health sector, by assisting private enterprises,
NGOs, and communities themselves to deliver basic services in the areas of health,
nutrition, and family planning.
Institutional strengthening of NGOs and other agencies involved in project
implementation should include the necessary training in Bank procedures and any other
training that could assist them in executing their project responsibilities.
To facilitate implementation of a project by its executing agencies, the roles of the
different partners in the process need to be clearly defined.
Regular visits by Bank supervision missions, or on-site monitoring, are essential for the
identification of problems as soon as they appear and for helping appropriate solutions.
The Bank should be able to give its opinion on the key personnel hired for a project, to
ensure that they are suitably qualified to turn in a credible management performance.



SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2196 ZR)
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
2. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial     Partal| Negligible                Non- applicable
Macro policies                     r4
Sector policies                    rv
Financial objectives                                                X
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                l4
Gender issues                     r4
Other social objectives                    LI
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability          Likely         Unlikely          Uncertain
.4



14                                                                      ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
0;C:-p0s'-a00'7:00ti V:satia                                           .... .  ........ . .. 
'ttt:C . 0:tt000000't a l&     Pmf                                                        ..  .  ..tt0;n;0  .. .....  .... .afft; t0 t00tT;y\,!i;iA   t:0 i'\t,
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
satisfactory                                             ...       ...
Preparation                                                       4
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation
E. Assessment of outcome                 :      4ighly    -;                                                                      . .. .to. .U..ti. Hih--
satisf 1 c                                   . t  ..   . .....
_ _ _     _          _          ___                                   sfactory~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...       .....
4~~~~~~.                ........... ..



Statistical Tables                                                                 15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Ppse                                 Year of.        Status
approval
Preceding operations
Credit 1839 ZR                   Technical assistance with strategy                   Closed
development, and improved planning and
Rationalization of Higher Education    management, in higher education.  1989         6/30/93
Credit 1953 ZR                   Support for National AIDS Control                    Closed
Program: prevention of transmission
National AIDS Control Program    through public information and education.  1988      1/12/94
Assistance
Concurrent operations
Credit 2213 ZR
Upgrading of primary education:                     Closed
Education III                    financing of implementation of sector
strategy.                            1991           4/27/94



16                                                  ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in pr*ct c~~~1c      Date plannd..              Dat netual/fatest estunat
Identification                                                   March 1988
Preparation                           December 1988              December 1988
Appraisal                             June 1989                  July 1989
Negotiations                          October 22-25, 1990        October 23-25, 1990
Letter of development policy                                     October 15, 1990
Board presentation                    December 1990              December 18, 1990
Signing                                                          February 1,1991
Effectiveness                         June 1,1991                January 23, 1992
Project completion                    June 30, 1995              January 20, 19954
Credit closing                        December 31, 1995          January 20, 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
IDA fiscal year      1991         1992         1993          1994         1995          1996
Appraisal estimate    1,500       6,300        14,800        24,500       29,00         30,400
Actual
1,787        2,958        9,369         -
Actual as % of
estimate            0 %           28 %         20 %          38 %
Date of last disbursement: February 7, 1994
4   Date of cancelation of the indisbursed balance of Credit proceeds.



Statistical Tables                                                                     17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key indicators in appraisal report           Planned                 Actual
A. Social Sector Reform
1. Establishment of financial targets        June 30 each year       Done for 1992 & 1993
2. Release of budgetary allocations to Ministries    October 31 each year  Partial, and only until
of Health and Education                                              December 1993
3. Setting up of monitoring systems          Quarterly               Completed
4. Preparation of actions plans on Population,  June 91
Women in Development, Environment, and
Nutrition
5. Initiation of population activities at the  January 92
regional level
6. Launch of training and information activities    On permanent basis
re Women in Development and Environment      from October 91
7. Establisent of a National Nutrition Surveillance  December 93
System
8. Technical assistance to National Statistics  June 91
Institute and SEP (Ministry of Agriculture)
9. Establishment of system for data collection  December 92
from National Social Security Institute and other
institutions
10. Finalization of methodologies for urban and    June 91
rural surveys (Social Dimensions of Adjustment)
11. Tests of survey results on small samples  July-November, 91
12. Data collection and analysis             On permanent basis
from Jan. 92 to Jan. 95



18                                                  ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Key indicators in appraisal report           Planned                Actual
13. Final selection of topics and methods for  March 91
social studies
14. Identification of agencies to conduct social    June 91         Completed
studies
15. Carrying out of social studies           Oct. 91 - Jan. 95
16. Review of proposals for funding and      On permanent basis
supervision of community-based and NGO pilot    from June 91 to June 95
projects
17. Selection of Women in Development projects  December 91
18. Implementation of these projects         Start-up June 91
19. Review of these projects                 June 94
20. Selection of Environment projects        December 91
21. Implementation of these projects         Start-up June 91
22. Review of these projects                 June 94
23. Selection of Health Insurance projects   December 91
24. Implementation of these projects         Start up June 91
25. Review of these projects                 June 94
B. Public Health & Nutrition Programs
26. Inauguration of 5 HZs (health zones)     June 92
27. Inauguration of 9 HZs                    January 93
28. Inauguration of 13 HZs                   June 93



Statistical Tables                                                                      19
Key indicators in appraisal report            Planned                 Actual
29. Inauguration of 13 HZs                    June 94
30. Implementation of EPI/CCCD activities in 5   June 91-June 95
HZs per year
31. Establishment of 2 trypanosomiasis control    June 91-June 94
units per year
32. Regular supply of anti-TB and anti-leprosy  On permanent basis
drugs
33. Introduction of family planning activities in 5  June 92
HZs
34. Introduction of family planning activities in    January 93
10 HZs
35. Introduction of family planning activities in    June 93
15 HZs
36. Introduction of family planning activities in    June 94
20 HZs
37. Regular supply of contraceptives          On permanent basis
38. National seminar on Safe Motherhood       Between Oct. 91 &
activities                                    March 94
39. Two regional seminars per year on this topic   92 & 93
40. Introduction of Iodine Deficiency control  Start-up June 91
activities in 5 HZs per year for three years
41. Identification of 11 nutrition promotion zones  March 91
42. Start-up of nutrition promotion activities  June 91
43. Review of nutrition promotion activities  June 94



20                                                   ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Key indicators in appraisal report           Planned                 Actual
C. ProiectManaaement
44. Establishment of work plans and budgets for   June 30 each year  November 92
executing agencies
45. Establishment of general work plan and   October 31 each year    Carried out
financial estimates by the Project Coordination
Office
46. Financial management, procurement,       On permanent basis      Carried out
disbursement, and accounting by Project
Coordination Office
47. Inauguration of technical assistance financed   June 91          Not carried out as UNDP
by UNDP                                                              canceled funding plans
in early 93.
48. Preparation of project progress reports  Quarterly               Carried out
49. Mid-term project review                  June 93                 Postponed as result of
suspension of
disbursements in July
93, and finally not
carried out owing to
cancellation of Credit.
50. Preparation of Implementation Completion  June 96                Carried out at earlier
Report                                                               date in view of
cancellation of Credit.



Statistical Tables                                                                    21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key indicators in appraisal report           Planned                Actual
Social Sector Reform
Apportionment of budget allocations for basic  Over a 4-year period  Done in 1992 and
health and education services, by Ministries of                     partially in 1993
Finance, Budget, Health, and Education
Development of intersectoral policies (Popualtion,  Over a 2-year period,
Women in Development, Environment)           followed by
implementation
Launching of pilot projects (Women in        Implementation over a
Development, Environment, Community          3-year period, followed
Initiatives                                  by review
Social surveys and studies                   On a permanent basis    Some surveys and
publication of findings;
no studies
Population. Health, and Nutrition Programs
Expansion of rural HZ (health zone) system to  Year 1: 3
serve 3 million persons                      Year 2: 7
Year 3: 10
Year 4: 10
Expansion of urban HZ system to serve 1 million   Year 1: 2
persons                                      Year 2: 2
Year 3: 3
Year 4: 3
Expansion of Family Planning Services to serve 5   Year 1: 5
million persons                              Year 2: 10
Year 3: 15
Year 4: 20
Opening of EPI/CCCD units to raise coverage rate  5 units per year over a 4-
from 37% to 47%                              year period
Trypanosomiasis: Monitoring of 1 million     Introduction of 2 mobile
persons at risk                              units per year, and
activities in 6 HZs
Tuberculosis: Reduction of mortality rate    Treatment of 30,000
cases per year



22                                                  ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Studi   P                          .....e             Stats              i Impact
y.~~ ~ ...                                                          ...:       : ..._ _   :       
Priority Household Surveys
1. Preparation of question-    Rapid assessment of the  Some surveys and     Information not
naires, publication of survey    social situation     publication of findings    available
findings, colleciton of national                      were completed in 1993
data, definition of socio-                            by the following
economic indicators, &                                executing agencies:
publication of statistics                             BNL, PSND, SPT/KIN,
BN/TDCI, BEP,
CECAP, SNSA (cf.
para. 10)
Socioeconomic Studies       Analysis of causes of
poverty, and identification
of specific alleviation
strategies
2. Household food security                            Study not carried out
3. Socioeconomic impact on                            Study not carried out
rural households of IDA-
supported pilot feeder-roads
project
4. Role of community-based                            Study not performed
savings and loan cooperatives
in promoting employment in
the informal sector
5. Integration of women into                          Study not carried out
the economy
6. Promotion of conununity-                           Study not carried out
based insurance systems



Statistical Tables                                                                                               23
Table 8: Project Costs
($US millions)
Appraisal Estimate                                Actual Costs
Category                    La costs    Foreign costs         Total           Local costs    Foreign costs       Total
1. Civil works              1.4            0.6                2.0             0              0                   0
2. Vehicles, equipment,
furmture, medical           1.5            7.3                8.8             0              6.5                 6.5
supplies
3. Consultant/expert services,
and training                3.0            4.3                7.3             0              0.5                 0.5
4. Operatingcosts           3.7            7.3                11.0            0.6             1.0                1.6
5. Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance         0.3            1.2                1.5             0              1.3                 1.3
6. Provision for physical
contingencies               0.4            1.5                1.9
7. Provision for financial
contingencies               1.5            3.0                4.5                             .
TOTAL                       11.8           25.2               37.0            0.6            9.3                 9.9
Table 8B: Project Financing
($US millions)
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual Costs
Source             Local        Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total
costs       costs                    costs      costs
IBRD               8.0          22.4        30.4         n.a.       n.a.        9.3
UNDP               0.1          2.8           2.9        0.0         0.0         0.0
Govermuent         3.7          -             3.7        0.6        -           0.6
TOTAL               11.8        25.2        37.0         n.a.       n.a          9.9
n.a.: Not available
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
In view of the nature of this project, calculation of an internal rate of return or a net
present value is not applicable.



24                                                                                                ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
A    a             C     e     t p             P        t          O    g      lR                 i-..D......................  .e...... .ripo   o  C v a  Comments
3.01 (a)    . Implementation    CP                                                                              Borrower to execute                     Political confusion,
.            . . .  .project with diligence                                                                                             economic deterioration,
,   ,                                           , ~~~~~~~~and efficiency and in         .and absence of counter-
.conformity with                         part funds explain the
.    .. .. . .appropriate practices                                                                                                   partial compliance with
and to provide required this covenant.
..   ..   ........ ....... ... .  . ..  .....  ..resources
~~~~~~~~.. ...... ...............i'ii'
3.01 (b)    Implementation   NC                                     As soon as                                  Borrower to open and                     The last monthly
,             ,                      ~~~~~~possible         ,maintain Project                                             payment into the
Account to ensure                      eAccount was made at the
prompt avail-ability of     beginning of 1993.
counterpart funds, with
an  initial deposit of
.,   '                                           .                   . ~~~~~~~~~US$200,000
3.03            . nplementation   C                               .                       *                     Borrower to maintain
Project Coordnation
AccoUnit, staffed by the
prescribed personnel
counteam
.Y 6   ...............                  .......  ............................  ...............................  ..........................  ..................................   ................................................i
3.04 (a)    . Consultation                  , C                   .                       .                   .Borrower tofrnish m             DA
Uwith draftfanual work 
programsofall
executing agencies
...........      ..................          ..........................  ................i.  ............  .......................     .....
3.04 (b)           Implementation   CD                              October 31                                   Borrower to furnish IDA    Finali ation of last plan
each year                                   with general work and                   (1993) delayed by Nov.
fnancing plan of Project   1992 reprogramniing of
Coordination Unit for                . 1993 activities.
following year                          Furnished at beginning
of 1993.
.............       ................................                 .........................................  ..... .......................    .............................
3.04 (c)    Implementation   CP                                     March 31                                    Borrower to funish MA   No report furnished for
each year                                   with report on status of    FY92. Report on FY93
project implementation    received in January
1994.
*                                                                                                             ---- ---- -   .. .. - -   -- -----4 .... -.-- 4-.- . -------- ... 4.--- .. ------- ... v - -i-------.- - - - - ...........................................
3.05            , Execution                   NC                    Each year                                   Borrower to organize                    No formal meeting,
annual meeting of parti-   although there were
cipating donors to                      informal consultations
review progress                         among some donors.
achieved
~~~~~~~~.........................  ............................  ........                            .....  .................................................... . ............................
4.01 (a)    * Accounting/                   *, C                  '.                      .                   . Borrower to keep or                      According to 1992 audit,
arrange for consistent                  withdrawal of
Audit                                                                                        records and accounts to    US$200,000 from
reflect project                         Special Account not
operations, resources,                 justified by available
and expenditures                        documentation.



Statistical Tables                                                                                                                                           25
Agree-             Covenantftype    Present                        Original                Revie              Description of Covenant  Coamments
meat                          -            ,.statust   -         .fibflment.               fizfilrhient
Sevtion                                                         g date tate
..................                                                 ...........................  ....... ....... ..           ................ .  .......................................
. Accounting/           i C                                          ii Borrower to have project i
records and accounts
Audit                                                                                       audited annually
4.01(bXii)  Accounting                        CD                                                              Borrower to furnish IDA   The 1992 audit report
with audit reports within Iwas received in July
iAudit                                                                                        six months of close of                 1993, and the 1993
each fiscal year                       report in May 1995.
4.02 (a)           Financial                  NC                                                            . Borrower to provide                    Such provision was
special annual budgetary   made only in 1990.
allocations for basic
health and education
services
............................................  ..............'...........................                      ...........................;..........................
4.02(b)                                    iNC                     October 31                                 Borrower to exchange                   Only done in 1990.
each year                                  views with IDA on
proposed amounts of
such budgetary
allocations
.............    ................................ ............................ ............................... .....................    .................................................... ....................................................
4.02 (c)           Financial               iNC                                                                Borrower to enter such   iThe amounts entered in
allocations as specific                the 1990 budget were
items in the national                  not released in full.
I budget, and to make
proceeds available to
agencies concerned as
and when needed.
a/           Present status:    C                     =             covenant complied with
CD           =             complied with after delay
CP           =             complied with partially
NC           =             not complied with



26                                                   ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Number and title of Statement                Comment on lack of compliance
O.D. 13.05 Supervision (para. 4)             The Bank sent out no supervision missions to Zaire during the 15-
month period from July 1991 to September 1992 owing to the
security problems affecting the country at that time.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks/$US)
PlaEnnjed,      Reisemcta
Stage of project cycle                         Weeks  $US       Weeks  $US        Weeks  $US
(000)            (000)            (000)
Through appraisal                                                                48.3      98.7
Appraisal - Board                                                                85.6    201.1
Board - Effectiveness                                                            22.0       56.9
Supervision                                    105.1            38.7             48.9      142.8
Completion                                                       5.0    7.3        6.2      12.1
TOTAL                                                                            211.0   511.6



Statistcal Tables                                                                                             27
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
-                 -l                       --Performanc tingTX-  
-. - :... .   .   :.  . . . . .--::..... . ..
estwareo~ojt. .   mUtbl   No. of         Days in    Specialized staff  ills    nimple-         Develop-      Types of problems
..Yaw..    pers*=s :  field        represented                 mentation      ment
:__                    .     _       _   -_-_:_-_-_._._:_ .. .: .:: . . . . . .  s,tatUS       i lllpact  .  .  _______
Identification   9/88       3            25         physician
mission                                             poverty specialist
gender issues specialist
Preparation &    3/89       12           22         physician
pre-appraisal                                       sociologist
mission                                             gender issues specialist
financial analyst
social sectors specialist
poverty specialist
Appraisal        6/89       12           22         physician
consultants (4)
financial analyst
experts (4)
Preparation of   7/89       1            17          Consultant
Women in
Development
component
Round Table       10/89     11            15         physician
mission;                                             sociologist
preparation of                                       gender issues specialist
negotiations                                         frnancial analyst
social sectors specialist
poverty specialist
Preparation       12/89     5            18         physician
mission                                             sociologist
financial analyst
social sectors specialist



28                                                             ICR - Zaire: Social Sector Project
Performance.rating
:.StgeofpMojct  Month/   No.. of        Daysin   Specializedistftslls         huple          Develop       Typesof problems
cycle:;Ei::::    year      persons      field      represented               mentation :    ma:
_______________                ________________________   ~~~~~status    im pact:i
Effectiveness
I                7/91      1            4         Management specialist                                   Only remaining condition for
effectiveness was appoint-
ment of technical assistant to
strengthen Project
Coordination Office.
Supervision
Project management
I                9/92      2            11        public health specialist   3              2             weaknesses in Coordination
implementation specialist                              Office
2                10-       I            II         physician
11/92
3                6-7/93    1            14         public health specialist  3              3             Several public health
programs did not receive
non-salary recurrent budget
over two-year period, owing
to deterioration of economic
situation.
4                9-10/93   1            7          public health specialist  3              3             Suspension of disbursements
as of 7/15/93 and non-
payment of counterpart funds
5                9-10/94   1            11        public heaith specialist   HU             HU            No release of counterpart
funds since 1992. Contracts
with most Project
Coordination Office
personnel expiring in
December 1993 were not
renewed.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         2
0-/       2                      -                      C - TRALSUDAF ,CA CF TEPRF-IC
SUDAN
ZAI R E
G A E O N          {       CNG/           .               
_'          N
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XA
Z A I R E                                    /4-.S =                 
SOCIAL SECTOR PROJECT
*                    ANGOLA         _,__.CoN 0  ANGOLA
..     .  .       . .              '! IA 









1MAGING
Report No:      15880
Type: ICR



