Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2196 ZR
                      (Social Sector Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 1, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2196 ZR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February  1,  1991,  between the REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
October  15,  1990  from  the  Borrower  describing  a  program of
actions,  objectives  and   policies   comprising  the  Borrower's
strategy  in  its  social  sectors  and  declaring  the Borrower's
commitment to such strategy;
     (B)  the Borrower, as part  of  such strategy, will carry out
the Project, described in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, and has
requested the Association to assist in the financing thereof; and
     (C)  on  the  basis,  inter   alia,  of  the  foregoing,  the
Association has agreed in  support  of  the  strategy to grant the
present Credit as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Project Preparation  Advance"  means  the  total of the
project preparation advances  granted  by  the  Association to the
Borrower pursuant to exchanges  of  letters dated January 20, 1989
and  March  7,  1989,  July  20,  1989  and  August  10,  1989 and
September 5, 1990 and September  23, 1990 between the Borrower and
the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment  Credit  Agreement,   an   amount   in  various  currencies
equivalent to twenty  one  million  nine  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in  accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1  to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so  agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods,  works and services required for the
Project described  in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     (c)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  deposit  account in a
financial institution acceptable to  the  Association and on terms
and  conditions   satisfactory   to   the  Association,  including
appropriate  protection  against  set-off,  sizure  or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
commencing March 15,  2001  and  ending  September  15, 2030. Each
installment to and  including  the  installment payable on Septem-
ber 15, 2010 shall be  one  percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall  be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
          Execution of the Project; Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
Page  4
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,  financial,  economic,  and  social  practices and
provide, promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities  and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall open  and  maintain a Project Account
to ensure the prompt availability  of  funds required to carry out
the Project and which are not  to  be provided out of the proceeds
of the Credit; such account shall  be  opened in the Bank of Zaire
with an initial deposit  of  the  equivalent of $200,000 and shall
thereafter until  the  completion  of  the  Project be replenished
monthly with  amounts  estimated  to  be  required  for the coming
month.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  Until  the  completion  of  the  Project, the
Borrower shall maintain  a  Project  Coordination Unit under terms
of reference  satisfactory  to  the  Association  and staffed with
a Project Coordinator, a  financial  manager,  an  accountant and a
procurement specialist, all with qualifications and experience and
employed under conditions, satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  3.04.  The  Borrower   shall,  through  the  Project
Coordination Unit, furnish to the Association for its approval:
     (a)  the draft annual  work  programs  of each agency charged
with carrying out any part of the Project;
     (b)  not later than October 31 in each year, the general work
and financial  plan  of  the  Project  Coordination  Unit  for the
following year; and
     (c)  not later than three  months  following  the end of each
year during the  carrying  out  of  the  Project,  a report on the
status of implementation of the Project.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall,  in consultation with the
Association, organize  annually  during  the  carrying  out of the
Project  meetings  of  participating  donors  for  the  purpose of
reviewing  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  its  social
programs.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
operations, resources and expenditures  in respect of the Project,
of the  departments  or  agencies  carrying  out  any  part of the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special  Account,   audited   for   each   year  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  report for the year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               or payment out of  a  Special Account was made, all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the audits referred to  in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the reports of such audits contain
               separate opinions by  said  auditors  as to whether
               the statements of expenditure submitted during such
               periods, together with  the procedures and internal
               controls  involved  in  their  preparation,  can be
               relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, during the carrying out
of  the  Project,  provide   special  annual  recurrent  budgetary
allocations for basic health and education services;
     (b)  the proposed amounts  of  such  allocations shall be the
subject  of  exchanges  of  views  between  the  Borrower  and the
Association prior to October 31 in each year; and
     (c)  the  final  amounts  shall   thereafter  be  entered  as
specific items in the national  budget and shall be made available
to the agencies concerned as and when needed.
                             ARTICLE V
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the strategy for the  Borrower's  social  sectors, as described in
the letter cited in paragraph A of the Preamble to this Agreement,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                           ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established
in the manner and with the personnel described in Section 3.03 (a)
of this Agreement;
     (b)  the PCU has  entered  into  arrangements satisfactory to
the Association with the agencies  to be charged with carrying out
the activities included in the Project; and
Page  6
     (c)  the Project Account  described  in  Section  3.01 (b) of
this Agreement has been opened with the initial deposit stipulated
in such Section.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  days  after  the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
          Boite Postale No. 12997
          Kinshasa 1
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINIFIN                         21161 KIN GOMBE
                Kinshasa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          197688 (TRT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                   By /s/ Tatanene Manata
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                1,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Vehicles, equip-          11,200,000        100% of foreign
     ment, furnish-                              expenditures and
     ings, medical                               90% of local
     supplies                                    expenditures
(3)  Consultants',              3,600,000        100% of foreign
     experts'                                    expenditures and
     services;                                   90% of local
     training                                    expenditures
(4)  Operating costs            2,500,000        70%
(5)  Refunding of               1,100,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (b) of this
                                                 Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                1,700,000
                               __________
          TOTAL                21,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  "foreign  expenditures"   means   expenditures   in  the
currency of any country other  than  that  of the Borrower for the
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  "local expenditures" means  expenditures in the currency
of the  Borrower  or  for  goods  or  services  supplied  from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  "Operating Costs" means the  costs of per diem payments,
transportation, maintenance of  vehicles  and equipment, operation
of vehicles, office supplies and utilities.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made on account of payments for expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to  provide support to the
fulfillment of the basic  needs of population groups disadvantaged
in the furnishing of social  services, especially in public health
and social welfare.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Page  8
Part A:   Social Sector Reform
1.   Increasing and  targeting  public  funding  of primary health
care and education services  through  an  allocation process to be
conducted by the Project  Coordination Unit, in collaboration with
the Ministries responsible for  Planning, Finance, Budget, Health,
and Primary and  Secondary  Education  and Vocational Training; in
this context strengthening the  activities of the National Hygiene
Fund (FONAMES) through  the  establishment  of  systems for health
planning and for a nation-wide radio communications to allow daily
exchanges of  information  with  the  entire  primary  health care
network.
2.   Developing  intersectoral  policies   related  to  population
issues,  family   welfare,   women-in-development,  nutrition  and
food security  and  environment  protection.  In  this context the
Population  Unit  of   the   Ministry   of  Planning  (Cellule  de
Coordination des Activites en Matiere  de Population - CECAP), the
Ministry of Women and  Family  Affairs  (Ministere de la Condition
Feminine et de la Famille - CONDIFFA), the Ministry of Environment
and Conservation  and  the  Nutrition  Planning  Center (Centre de
Planification  Nutritionelle  -  CEPLANUT)  would  be strengthened
through the  use  of  expert  services,  acquisition of equipment,
training and operational support.
3.   Establishment, through competent  statistical  agencies, of a
system for permanent household  surveys  to provide basic data for
policy analysis and  development  and  a  conceptual framework for
social development; carrying out  studies necessary for the proper
use of such data, including long-term perspective studies.
4.   Implementation  of  pilot   projects,  including  support  to
community-based  and   non-governmental  initiatives,  operational
research in appropriate technologies  for facilitating the work of
women, carrying out of  small-scale environmental projects and the
promotion of community-based health insurance schemes.
Part B:   Support of Population, Health and Nutrition Programs
1.   Increasing the  coverage  of  primary  health  care through a
strengthening of the Health Zone  system  in the Kinshasa area and
in certain rural areas  and  increasing  the expansion of priority
public health  programs,  including  immunizations  and  the fight
against communicable childhood diseases, tuberculosis, leprosy and
trypanosomiasis, through  training  of  personnel,  acquisition of
equipment,  rehabilitation  of  infrastructure  and  employment of
specialist's service.
2.   Expansion and  diversification  of  national  family planning
activities and  geographic  coverage  from  urban  areas  to rural
Health  Zones;   expansion   of   the   distribution   system  for
contraceptives to  include  at  least  four  new  regions  and the
introduction through  the  Health  Zone  system of safe-motherhood
activities  including  pre-   and   post-natal   care  and  health
education.
3.   Strengthening  of  the  National  Iodine  Deficiency Program,
especially in northern  Equateur,  Haut  Zaire,  Western Kasai and
Northern and  Southern  Kivu,  through  its  integration  into the
expanded program  of  immunization  and  the  provision  of iodine
injections; and  the  promotion  in  priority  regions  through an
expansion of the activities of the National Center for Planning of
Nutrition pursuant  to  a  National  Nutrition  and  Food Security
Strategy, including  nutrition  education,  family food production
and the monitoring of malnutrition at the community level.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
Page  9
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of  goods and services required to
carry out the  Project  and  to  be  financed under Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in Schedule 1 above.
     (b)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Association requests for deposits
which do not exceed  the  amount  of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such requests the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amounts as shall have been so requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such  amount as shall have been
               requested and  as  shall  have  been  shown by said
               documents and other evidence  to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For  each  payment  made  out  of  the  Special  Account, the
Borrower shall, at such  time  as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish  to  the  Association  such  documents  and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, less
the amount of any  outstanding  special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall equal the equivalent of  twice  the amount of the Authorized
Page  10
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit  shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall  specify  by  notice  to  the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For the purpose of  inviting  bid,  items  or groups of items
capable of being furnished by  a  single supplier shall be grouped
in bidding  lots  of  at  least  $200,000  equivalent  in order to
stimulate international competition in bidding.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Zaire may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall  be  procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally,  as described in paragraph
3.3 of the Guidelines.
Page  11
2.   Any contract  for  the  purchase  of  training or educational
materials, office  supplies  or  surveying  equipment estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent,  may  be procured on the basis
of international and local shopping, as described in paragraph 3.4
of the Guidelines; provided, however,  that the aggregate value of
contracts so procured shall not, without the prior approval of the
Association, exceed the equivalent of $800,000..
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Equipment,  supplies,  furnishings   and  vehicles  shall  be
procured only  following  approval  by  the  Association of master
lists of such items showing  estimates  of costs and the timing of
purchases.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works or for the
purchase of goods described  in  paragraph  D.1  above, and to any
other contract estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of $200,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall  be  furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first  payment  out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph 2 (a), the  procedures set forth in paragraphs
3 and  4  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed  copies  of  the   contract   together  with  the  other
information required to be  furnished  to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be  furnished to the Association as part
of the  evidence  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section III. Employment of Consultants and Experts
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower   shall   employ   consultants   and  experts  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such consultants and
experts shall be selected  in  accordance  with the principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
